ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:22]] They registered in the 409 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies of Ukraine - Razwadowski Viktor Josephovich and Sitnik Kostin Merkuryovich. Let us welcome our colleagues, wish us good health, and every success. Dear colleagues, announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbato Valeri Mironović, into the membership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". And on the exit of the Ukrainian national deputy, Long Taras Alexiyovich, from the deputy faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and its membership in the deputy faction of "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on June 2, 2005. Thirty-three questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result, 18 laws have been passed. The three bills were designed for redrafting, six bills were rejected, five decrees were passed, and five draft regulations were rejected. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes for the national deputies to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, I'm going to announce the questions that have come. On the board, please give the names of the national MPs who are registered so that they can be oriented. On board, please give the names of the national MPs. Dear colleagues, let's get out of the question that's 30 minutes for us to announce requests and speeches. Yes, there were requests from Ukrainian national deputies: [[May I have your attention, please?]] Petra SIMONENKA to the President of Ukraine for the purpose of implementing administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:05:02]] For 122 Request not supported. Andrija SCHOOL to the President of Ukraine on the initiation of the ban on the political party “Ukrainian National Assembly”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:32]] For the 110. Request not supported. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine on the removal of the adept of the anti-Ukrainian idea of the Russian Liberal Empire, Germany, from the position of advisor to the President of Ukraine in connection with his unceremonious interference with the internal affairs of Ukraine, which compromises the President of Ukraine and Ukraine as a sovereign state. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:14]] For-179 Request supported. We'll vote now, then. Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine - 19, Communist - 54, Ukraine - 18, People's Party - 4, Block Timoshenko - 32, SPU - 7, Ukrainian People's Party - 16, SDPU - 15, Democratic Ukraine - 1, Ukraine - 6, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 2, Postfraction - 5. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:07:04]] For 223 Dear colleagues. By factions, please calm down. Our Ukraine - 14, Communist - 53, Ukraine - 38, People's Party - 4, Block Timoshenko - 32, SPU - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 19, SDPU - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 1, Ukraine - 6, Industrial Party - 1, Democratic Initiatives - 6, Postfraction - 10. Who's in favour of coming back to that question, please vote. [[10:07:57]] For 248 Who's in favour of filing a request with the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:08:18]] For the 250. The factions. Our Ukraine - 1, Communist - 56, Ukraine - 47, People's Party - 22, Timoshenko - 30, SPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 20, SDPU - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 2, Ukraine - 10, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 6, Postfaction - 11. Mikoli Pavluk to the President of Ukraine on the delay of the authorities in resolving the issue of privatization of the area and the legal status of the residence of the resident of Odessa. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:13]] For-43 Request not supported. Victor ANTEMUCA to the President of Ukraine for lack of consistent policies and concrete actions to improve the pension of military pensioners. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:40]] Z-71 Request not supported. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the establishment of proper parliamentary control over the activities of the Attorney-General's Office and for the restoration of the rights of a citizen of Kislenka. valentine SAVISKI to the Prime Minister for financing the completion of the construction of cleaning facilities in Olevsk, U.S.A. Mr. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister for budgetary financing of the work in the settlements of the Kyiv Region. People's Deputies' Groups to the Prime Minister on the situation that has arisen on the Lysicanskwogil mines from the payment of the current salary. [[ASTROV-SHUMILOV, PHOTOGRAPH]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister for maintaining the coal and coal taxes given to families of dead miners. [[TURMANOV, CORSACOV, COMAR]] Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of state capital investments to the completion of the wide-scale rail line at the Taužna-Golvanavsk station. Kirila POLIČUKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the continuation of the construction of the information and library centre of the Donetsk National Technical University. Mr Anatolia NALIVAIKA to the Prime Minister regarding the gasification of the city of Yunkomunarivsk in the Donetsk region. Levka LUKJANENKA to the Prime Minister on the decision of the Ministry of Education and Science in the new school year to introduce Russian language study in the primary classes of general education schools due to a reduction in hours for studying Ukrainian. Mikoli Komara and Alexia Korsakova to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the head of the State Property Fund on a situation that is engrossed in the Presidential residence of the Masandrov Palace in Crimea. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister for the purpose of carrying out administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister on the insolent two-way sabotage by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of sending a letter to the Council of Europe on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Smaller Languages. valentine SAVICZI to the Prime Minister for the acceleration of the financing of the reconstruction of the maternity home in Olevsk, U.S.A. Vasil Bartkov to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science for the provision of assistance in the purchase of school buses for the transportation of children in the Ivano-Frankow region. MICHELLE TO THE Prime Minister on the introduction of the elderly children's health and health care facilities to the benefits of electricity consumption. Group of People's Deputies to the Prime Minister, heads of the DPA on the verification of the implementation by the head of the Provincial District Administration of the promises, the data given to the people by the President of Ukraine on the separation of business from power. [[LESSIN, DOBKIN, SURMA]] Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Prime Minister for tax evasion and collection in the local budget of the oil and gas mining office “Outdoornaftegaz”, which works in the production of oil and gas in the Lopushnian heritage of the Visniki district of Cherniewec. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister for delaying the execution of the decision of the Military Court of the Ravenski garrison to pay off the arrears of compensation payments released to military personnel. Istwana HYDOSH to the Prime Minister to remove obstacles and restore the work of the Ukrainian part of the Mixed Ukrainian-Hungarian Commission on the protection of the rights of national minorities. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds to eliminate the effects of the floods of 1998 and 2001 on the completion of the shore-building work on the Teresva and Teresla rivers in the region of Tachiv. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for the purpose of closing the “Vision” mine of the State-owned company Lviv coal. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the situation surrounding the state-owned defence branch of the Kozatsky Hotel. Mr. Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the Department of Language Policy in the Cabinet of Ministers. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Prime Minister in connection with the emergency situation of the public education school in the village of Lukovo Irsavov district of Zakarpatsk. Istwana HYDOSH to the Prime Minister on the non-admissibility of changing the legal status of the State Committee in matters of nationality and migration as a single central executive body, the restoration of funding for the development of national minority cultures and the removal of obstacles to the work of the Committee. Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister on the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree “To commemorate the 110th anniversary of the birth of the outstanding Ukrainian poet Maxim Rilski”. Vassil, smooth to the Cabinet of Ministers for the implementation of the Milk and Milk Products Act. Valeria GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister for the lack of funding for state-owned programs for the purchase of essential medicines for the provision of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Property Fund, to verify the legality of the privatization of the trade unions' sanatoriums. Mr. Vladimir NICHIPREH to the Prime Minister on the use of appropriate measures to the Minister of Internal Affairs and the removal of them from the performance of official powers for the period of review of the activities of the Attorney General's Office. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister for the recovery of the pensioner's benefits to coal miners in the city of Kirovska Lugansk. Vladimir Paka to the Prime Minister on the complex socio-economic situation that took place in the military town of Makarov – 1. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the Stolněnsk Hospital in the district of Chernigiv. Petra TLOČKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on the restoration of the garden of Paul Chubinsky, author of the words of the State Hymn of Ukraine. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service for the unwarranted violation of the criminal case by the Cherkas Public Prosecutor's Office regarding the Open Shareholder Society, the “Golden Carbuilding Plant Lepse”. [[RAYKOV, GORLOV, COLONIARI AND OTHERS]] Eugena LAPINA and Vasil GUREYEV to the Prime Minister for the provision of the activities of the Suma Open Shareholder Association SELMI. Victor ANTEMUCA to the Prime Minister for lack of consistent policies and concrete actions to improve the pension provision of military pensioners. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Property Fund, Head of the Security Service, Attorney-General for the theft of state property on a particularly large scale, the illegal alienation of Ukrainian naval vessels of the State Shipbuilding Company Black Sea Shipping for the benefit of foreign offshore companies, the purposeless use of the funds received from this fund. Boris HOT TO THE Prime Minister about the change in the territory of the Tsuma Village Council of the Volin Region. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General for the violation of the Constitution and laws, political persecution and unfounded efforts by the executive authorities of the Plains region to remove from office the Director-General of the open undertaking “Rivnenska AES” and individual managers and specialists of the enterprise. Vassil NADRAVIA to the Prime Minister for the payment of the debt from the wages paid to the employees of the state-owned enterprise Lugansk-carbon-budrestructuring. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Prime Minister for the provision of additional targeted assistance for the repair of the road with a view to the development of the tourism industry in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the problems of the functioning of the educational and health institutions of the Taurus community in the region of Sherson. Anatolya KLIMINA to the First Deputy Prime Minister on the catastrophic ecological situation in Lenin district of Dnipropetrovska, in connection with groundwater submergment and radioactive contamination of the territory. Anatolia GREZEVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the introduction of scientific and technical projects for the disposal of motor tires and dry wood. Sergija ŽIŽKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka on contributing to the increase in the printing of Posthi monograph. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney General for the misconduct of the employees of the Office for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Odessa area concerning the Credit Association “Ukraine”. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General on dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy's response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the situation surrounding the “Vinnica oblenergo Share Company”. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Attorney General for the verification of the legitimacy of the issuance of the order by Sergey Kival to appoint the Rector of the Odessa National Law Academy, Yuri Polyansky. Jurija KOSTENKA to the Attorney-General on the violation of the constitutional rights and social guarantees of the employees of the “Bilgrade-Dniestrowski ribocombinate” of the Odessa region. Mary MARKUSH to the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice in connection with the failure of the courts. Victor SLAUTI and Mikoli Komara to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service for Information Review, on the production of pirate CDs by Vice Prime Minister Oleg Rybauk. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Investigation of Criminal Matters in relation to Olijnik and others who have committed criminal acts against the photo correspondent UCRINFORM Vevduk for carrying out his professional duties, the pressure on the investigating authorities in Sevastopol by individual prosecutors. Mykoli MELNIKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the non-return of grain processing products from the Vendic Combine of Fertilizers of Mogilov, the Podil district of Winnitz. Ally ALEKSANDROVSKI to the Attorney General for improper examination by the Office of the Prosecutor of Information on the violation of the requirements of the State Privatization Program. Valentina MATWEJEVA to the Attorney-General for the abuse and illegal implementation of the shares of the agricultural production company Burluk, Bahchisaraya district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Dnipropetrova firm Zolda amphora. Andrea POLIETA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service on the facts of the theft of the material and material values of Ukraine's mobilisation reserve through the leadership of the Open Shareholder Society “Dnihšina”. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General regarding the double-handed investigation into the murder of senior police lieutenant Richuk by law enforcement officials in the Volin region. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the misconduct of some police and prosecutors of the city of Zaporozhye. Valery CONONOVA to the Attorney General on the examination of the failure to pay the employees of the “Orlan” pay. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Attorney General on the theft of state property in the electricity sector of the Cherkas region through bankruptcy proceedings. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General for obstructing the professional activities of the newspaper “Communist”. Ms. Alexiyuka and Mr. Yuria Shirka to the Attorney-General on the groundless refusal of a criminal case for obstructing the head of the economy of the Plain State Administration of the free expression of citizens during the election of the President of Ukraine. Ephima FIXA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the forceful capture of the premises of the Kerchensky Mesquikon representative “Pore”. MICHAEL DOBKINA to the Attorney General for ensuring the principle of legality in criminal proceedings in the city of Kharkiv. Helen BONDERENKO to the Attorney General on the circumstances of the privatisation of the open stock company “Codrian Glass Plant”. Andria Polita to the Attorney General for obstructing police personnel from celebrating the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Attorney-General on the return of the owners of the violently captured premises of the Patriarchy of the Ukrainian Autokefal Orthodox Church in Kiev and the editorial of the newspaper “Our Faith”. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General, Kyiv City’s head, for the basic removal from the administration of the Kyiv Higher Professional School of Construction and Housing Design and for the transfer of objects to the administration of the State Tax Administration. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Attorney General on the violation of legislation regarding the guaranteed return to the previous position of the official of the village council after the completion of the Council’s mandate. Mr. Jaroslav KENJORA and Mr. Paul MUTCHANA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service regarding the anti - state position of head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets and information on the presence in its actions of corruption signs. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the conduct of a new investigation into the murder of National Deputy Vadim Gethtman. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General, head of the State Property Fund, on the situation that has taken place in the Herson Combins company and on the verification of compliance with the requirements of legislation in the process of its privatisation. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General on the violation of a criminal case against the head of the Drohobian Paradise of the Lviv region for obstruction, bribery and threat, and the exercise of electoral law. [[CARMASINE, JAVARI, MOYSIC]] Ms. Aleksandra CARENKA to the Attorney-General on the abuse of services and the violation of budgetary arrangements by the Head of Education and Science of the Suma District State Administration. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on exceeding official powers and ignoring sanitary legislation and the requirements of fire safety when students of the State Academy of Culture Management and Arts of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism are accommodated in the dormitory. [[CHECK, KOSIV, Cloud and others]] Mikli ROJDOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Board on the improper examination of the parliamentary request for illegal construction work by the Open Shareholder Society “PIC-210”. Aleksandra MASSENKA to the Attorney General to check the legality of the violation by the procurator of the Poltav district of the criminal case against the resident of Poltava. THE Minister of Internal Affairs and Officials of the Ministry for the brutal violation of the Constitution and laws, the violation of private property and constitutional rights and the freedoms of citizens, and the criminal abuse of power and office. Mr. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the failure to respond to the reply of the Attorney-General to the parliamentary question regarding the request of the Johno-Frankov District Council for the resignation of the district prosecutor. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI AND Vasil GORBAL to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the practice of mass layoffs and the selection of personnel based on political preferences. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Ministry of Finance for the provision of drinking water to residents of the city of Anthracite Luhansk. MICHELLE to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to increase pensions for citizens who have experienced political repression and have been rehabilitated. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on the violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Reform of the Agrarian Sector of the Economy. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the award of a computer class to the Jawsopil School of Public Education in the Red Army region of the Žitomir region. Vassila Gladys to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in connection with the accident of schooling in the village of Seminovka in the region of Kharkiv. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Minister of Defence concerning the inactivity of officials of the Ministry regarding the director of the “Kremenchuke Career Management Quartz” enterprise. Leonida GRAČ to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the legality of advertising along roads in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in Simferopol. Kirila POLIŠKUKA to the Minister of Economics for the Renovation of Water Treatment Station in Yagotin Kyiv district. Anatolia NALIVAIKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the miscalculation of pensions and the cancellation of benefits for disabled people, the Chernobyl workers of the Krolevetsky District Sanitary Epidemiology Station of the Sumi district. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the establishment of the status of the disabled of the Great and the Homeland War, a participant in hostilities. Mr. Leonida GRACH to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the verification of the possible possession of firearms by a citizen of acid. Igor Nasalika to the Minister of Justice for failing to implement the decision of the Kalusian City Court of Ivano-Frankov in case No.2-719 and the legitimacy of the election of Roman Suska by the Kalusian City Head. Vassila BARTKIVA to the minister of justice, the head of the Supreme Court, the head of the Supreme Court of Economics on the issue of safeguarding property rights for purchasers of property purchased in accordance with the order set out for the enforcement of judicial decisions. Olga HINZBURG to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for Child Support to Single Mothers. John MIHOVIĆA to the minister of justice regarding the irresponsible delay in the execution of the decision of the Behegiv District Court in the case of the inhabitants of the village of Bohrvo Zacarpatsk. MICHELLE TO THE HEALTH MINISTER FOR THE Insufficient implementation of the National TB Programme. Michael MELNIČUKA to the Ministry of Health for the promotion of the purchase of medical equipment and sanitary vehicles for the Chernobyl Regional Clinical Cardiological Dyspnoea. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the fact that the Ministry of Transport has been recalculating funds and liaising for the air traffic survey of the company “VITAIR” and the involvement of the National Deputies. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the reconstruction of the railway station in the town of Svalí Zacarpatsky. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Justice on the inaction and violation by the state contractors of the Kyiv Region of the Act on State Executive Service and on Executive Conduct. [[HYZKO, CHECK, PAC]] JOURIA SIRKA and SERGEY ALEXIUKA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy for drawing on the responsibility of the Director of the Plain AES for weaknesses in the operation of the internal reactor control system in the energy cloud. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Minister of Justice for the enforcement of the court’s decision to collect debts on a salary for the benefit of the inhabitants of the village of Harchenka Kozelščina district of Poltava. Vassil GAVRILUK to the Minister of Economics for the Establishment of the Hersonian Authority on Bankruptcy. Mr Eugene HIRNIKA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the request of the District Council of Rožnetów of the Ivano-Frankov Region for the implementation of the Tourism Development Programme 2003-2010. Helen BONDARENKO to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal export of assets of the “Voldarska Automotive Company – 13237”. John YVANCHO to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the completion of the reconstruction of the railway station in Mukachevo, a railway station, a railroad, a platform, a building, and a nearby area. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the delay in the issuance of the State Road Inspection in the Ternopil area of conclusions on road transport. Oleg BILORUS to the head of the Council of Judges for the misconduct of the judges of the Obolon District Court of Kiev and a member of the Council of Judges Ohrimchuk. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Kiev City Head for the violation by the Ministry of the Constitution of individual members of the Russian Gardening Center for the privatization of the land areas they used. are used on legal grounds. Ravila SAFIULLIN and Alexia LELJECA to the head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Internal Affairs of the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Moscow regarding the illegal distribution of property in the city of Donetsk. ALLY ALEXANDROVSKA to the head of the State Property Fund regarding the orders to complete plans for the privatization of energy companies. Olga HINZBURG to the head of the Pension Fund for the settlement of pension payments to children with disabilities. MICHAEL SETINIE to the head of the State Customs Office for the violation by officials of the State Customs Service of the rights of a Siberian citizen. Alexander BONDARCHUKA and Anatolia NALIWAYKA head of the State Property Fund on the abuse of the Redoliman City Head of the Donetsk Region, which has led to the destruction of a combination of silicate products Anatolia Seminoga to the head of the High Council of Justice, the qualified commission of the judges of Zaporozhye County of Appeal on the conformity of the current legislation with the work of the judges of the Ordjonikidev District Court of Zaporozhye. Eugene YELLA to the Head of Government of the Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation Foundation regarding the absence of a response to a parliamentary appeal to the head of the fund. Vladimir LECHENKA to the head of the State Committee on Land Resources on the state of implementation of legislation regarding the provision of land to cultural, educational, and health workers living in rural areas. GOVERNMENTAL to the Head of State for the provision of comprehensive information on the number of state residences and the cost of maintaining them for the state budget of Ukraine, which was carefully concealed under the rule of Leonid Kuchma. Vassila ONOPENKA to the prosecutor of the Kyiv District, acting as Preyaslav-Hmalnicki Interstate Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, Yagotin District Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, for the violation of legislation by officials of the Preyaslav-Hmalnicki State Forestry Company of the Kyivlis State Forestry Association. Alexander MASSENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of financial assistance for the construction of a gas pipeline in the village of Velika Krucha in the Pyratin district of Poltava. Ms. Alexander Tkalenka to the Attorney General, Minister of Transport and Liaison, dealing with the situation that resulted from the appointment of the Head of the Herson Seaport of Peluchovsky and the verification of his financial and economic activities. Stepan HMARI to the head of the Security Service, Minister of Interior, Head of the State Border Service for the Prohibition of Entry into Ukraine, Deputy State Duma of the Russian Federation, Victor Alsnis. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney-General on the invocation of responsibility for officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine who forged data in the data provided to the Ukrainian CBC on the election of the President of Ukraine. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the protection of citizens’ rights to property and other constitutional guarantees of individuals living in the region of Borislav. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the leadership and the trade committee of the State Open Shareholders Association "The Artema Shave" of the State Holding Company "Luganskwogil". Oleg TUGBOKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on humanitarian issues about the inadmissibility of eliminating the teaching of Christian ethics in schools in Ukraine, which is traditionally a Christian state. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine on the problems of transportation services for the population, war veterans, and the work of the Highlands of the Hersonian region. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state budget for payments and property of the electricity sector. Ally ALEXANDROWS to the head of the State Property Fund for the efficient use of state power. Mr. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the Ministry of Transport’s Order and Liaison of Ukraine since 27.04. 05 No. 153 and its conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. JURY OF THE ORBJECTION to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper performance by the first deputy of the Kyiv State Administration, Fomenkom, of the service duties of the head of the Watchful Council of the VAT AK "Kiyevvodokal" and the falsification of the protocol of the general meetings of the shareholders of the VAT AK "Kiyevvodokal" dated 28.04. 05 and interference with the work of the courts. Thus, honourable national deputies, 138 parliamentary inquiries have been made. According to factions: "Our Ukraine" - 24, Communists - 42, "Regions of Ukraine" -12, "SDP (o) - 5, "One Ukraine" - 3, "People's Party" - 6, "People's Party" - 13, "BUT - 8, "The Ukrainian People's Party - 11, "Democratic Ukraine" - 3, "non-fractional - 11. Yes, announcing: In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I form the formation of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Bagraev Mikoli Grigorovovich and Hmelnicky Vasil Ivanovich, as part of the MP’s Faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Yes. Dear colleagues, we've used it for 35 minutes. What are we going to do? Shall we play? Let's do this. ShuIga Mikola Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Sergio Petrovich Gmiri. Sergei Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u3	Sergey Gmyrra, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the continuity of power is considered a positive phenomenon throughout the world. In my country, however, the continuity between traditional old bushism and youthfulism of Yushchenko is taking on the most perverse forms. I'll give you two examples: since the year 93, Communists have been beating up our country. The regime has apparently changed, and this continues now. Right now, in Korosten of the Žitomir Region, everything is being done in order to bring to justice the city's head Moskalenko only for the fact that in his town the only one on the coast of Ukraine, the people, expressing their sovereign will, have not been voted in favour of Yushchenko. The testimony of this man's colleagues is being thrown out, and everything is being done to make him a criminal. I warn you, the communists will protect their people by all means possible. Know this, gentlemen of the challengers and gentlemen of the bandits. And if we have to, we'll take the sticks. Second moment. There is a small town of Zorinsk in the Preval region of Lugansk. In the area of the city, the Nikonor-Nova mine was built in its time in the late 1990s. She was named the firstborn of Donbass' rebirth. It was supposed to be compensation for closing mines, there was a lot of noise, there was political capital in it, and they used it to acquire votes. The shaft's not built, she can't work. It was the old power. The new power does nothing to change the situation, either unfulfilled or unfulfilled. There is no heating in the city, the sewerage is such that from the threat of the epidemic to the epidemic, the transition is taking place. Lighting up the problem, water problems. On 25 May, the city of Zorinska held a large-scale rally, at which it was decided to take all possible measures to change the situation of the current authorities, which continues the criminal policy of the old. Today, another mass action is taking place in this city, and people who are in a state of despair are threatening to take extreme action. And they can be understood. Conclusions, distinguished colleagues. I firmly believe that Ukraine will be ashamed of the old power and supposedly new. And when she's ashamed, she'll inevitably turn red. And then everything's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u4	Gregory Bondarenko, Democratic Ukraine MP. Get ready, Zizka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u5	Grigory Bondarenko, electoral district 92, Democratic Ukraine, electoral block Volodymyr Litvina. Dear colleagues. I want to share with you one important issue for all of us. I would like to invite you, Your Honor, to return to solving the notorious problem of parliamentary immunity. This problem is extremely urgent. We will soon find out. In the upcoming elections, we will be asked. That's the kind of question they're asking. As probably many of us ask, our voters rightly point out that until now, there will be a parliamentary privilege of impossibility of attracting national MPs to criminal responsibility. All of them can, and no MPs. The essence of the problem, like the many years of gravity on this issue, is well - known to all of you. I'm not going to tell you anything, I'm just going to stop at what. Everybody knows that society is not what it is against, but it is definitely not what it is now, I would say, an unreasonable amount of parliamentary immunity. This situation is extremely serious. It humiliates us with you, authority, causes mistrust of people, because it gives rise to suspicion that a national MP wants to hide under the mandate of parliamentarians, cover it up if not a crime, something so bad, not good. For my firm conviction, appropriate legislative changes are needed. Deputies should be brought to the standards that exist in many parts of the world. All MPs and voters must answer to the law in the same way. Today, the current constitutional rule on parliamentary immunity clearly contradicts the fundamental constitutional principle that Ukrainian citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law, part one of article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine. This article prohibits any privileges of any kind. [[part of each other]] In my opinion, part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine should be presented in this way: "The Ukrainian People's Deputies cannot be brought to criminal liability, detained or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine otherwise than by a judgement of a court that has gained legal power." This means that against a criminal case, but he cannot be detained or arrested until the judgment against him becomes effective. That's all there is to it is to be an MP's touch. On this point, I've prepared a draft of the Law, you know, it's not easy to even register it, it takes 150.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u6	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In May 1917, the First All - Ukrainian Military Assembly began, with 700 representatives from all Russian armies and fleets. And by the middle of the 17th year, the newly created Ukrainian troops had about two million soldiers. Unfortunately, the Central Council did not consider it appropriate to form the Armed Forces, the result of the ideology of military politics was the tragedy of Kruth, the defeat of the war with Bolshevik Russia, and the defeat of the liberation contests of 17-21 years. The Ukrainian People’s Republic was a legitimate State of the Ukrainian people, recognized by many countries around the world. Thus, the armed defense of his country was the legal right of all Ukrainians. After occupying Ukraine in the 20th year, Russia drowned in blood the Ukrainians' desire for independence. In terms of our national interests and international law, these actions by Russia were a crime against the Ukrainian people. Therefore, the armed struggle of the Ukrainian armies and the rebels who opposed the invaders must be qualified as a national liberation, and the participants themselves should be regarded as the heroes of the liberation struggle. In Ukraine, however, there are still distorted estimates of the glorious struggle. The names of the generals, the chiefs, the Ottomans are forgotten. Their activity is silenced or qualified as banditry. As an example, we're going to go after years of trying to rehabilitate the rebel Ottoman Anani Wolinz and other rebels with the historic Cold Yar club led by Kowal. Ananias Wolinec was born in 1894, according to an agronomist, in 1817 as the Central Council of the Haysinian Police Department of the Winnitz Region, the organizer of free Cossacks. In the fall of 1918, he commanded the smoker, who was later turned into 61 infantry Haitian regiments. He was named Lieutenant Colonel. In 1919-1920, he fought with the Bolsheviks in the army of the U.N.R. as the leader of the guerrilla squad left in the occupied territory. On August 27, 1997, Alexander Kristenko, then deputy attorney general of Ukraine, appreciated the work of Ananias Wolinz. In 1918, at the direction of the Central Council of Church and Ballistics, he organized a political party, and he fought actively against the revolutionary movement. On the basis of Volinz’s opinion, Ananias Gavrilovich is based on a criminal conviction and one that is not subject to rehabilitation. The former official admitted that Ananias Wolintz had fought for the authority of the U.N.R., but that is why he viewed it as part of his crime. And Volinca has been convicted as a criminal criminal, and just as the criminal is being prosecuted by tens of thousands of fighters for the liberation of Ukraine, the U.S.R.R.R. law on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine has been in force since 1991. In the name of historical truth, the Supreme Council, which, by the way, works successfully on the street of Gruszewski, has to consider and adopt draft Law 2040 on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repressions by Hennadi Udovenko, including the number of persons who fall under its influence by all fighters for Ukraine’s national independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u8	Mikola Rudzkowski, Socialist faction. Mikola Eutychiewicz Melnik, please invite him to the presentation, is given the right to speak by Mikola Rudekovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u9	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party Honorable MPs, distinguished peasants. Every day, there is an increasing amount of sadness in the village’s souls. Why? It seems to be a joy. As a result of the orange revolution, Ukraine has finally thrown down an hateful yoke, the people have elected their own president, who has promised the village radical changes, namely: new jobs, high wages, which the peasant has been waiting for for for many years. Yushchenko, I would like to believe, has surrounded himself with decent, honest politicians who, by the seventh generation, from what the President has said, cannot be businessmen, all the more so by dishonest hands. These people must uphold the true independence of our nation, direct their efforts to economic prosperity. Selyan, can you hear me? Over the years, it's like the will of the U.S. has become your reality, but unfortunately, there have been people with a worm inside who are ruthless, who are lying, who are greedy. These politicians began expanding their lands from the first day they came to power. The president put these people on his own, this criminality. In my village they say, "Tell me who your friend is, and I'll tell you who you are." But I'll expect our president to be beyond suspicion. In my area, and this is Winnitzina, one of the President's politicians recently declared, "Vinnitzina is my father." The villagers were alarmed, the workers were alarmed, the intelligence was alarmed. The principals of this businessman are gathering better land at a high rate. anyone's interests. The land lease in the Land Return Conditions section is written down, which is why I'm speaking out on this, this.: "The improvement of the land area's status, carried out by a tenant in written agreement with the tenants, is compensable." Once again, the peasant is trustworthy, simple, alive. He's a man of honor and he's signing his own sentence. He doesn’t even know it. After a year or so, it takes four or six thousand dollars to pay the businessman back. They are followed by improvements in these lands. By his poor retirement, peasants will not be able to count on the passing of time and will lose their right to land forever. A peasant owner of a state-owned part of the country should know that several bills have been put in the Land Relations Committee, aimed at making the land a commodity. Land and property owners make contracts where a farmer loses all his right to a pie. The businessman I'm talking about is ignoring the farmer's right to a piece of pie; he's not interested in technology, he's not interested in buildings. Only from abroad, because he's a billionaire. Debt in previous years is not paid off, says it's their problem, the peasant. In short, a peasant is turned into a recruit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u10	Yes, Mikola Noshchenko is referring the right to speak to Vasil Antonovich Kalinczuk, a faction of the People's Party. Prepare Andrey Politto.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u11	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Calinchuk, People's Party faction, Rest. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Colleagues! My colleagues at the People's Party faction have made a great deal of effort to protect at the legislative level the domestic producer of animal products and the Ukrainian consumer from sub-product surpluses imported from abroad through free economic zones and converted into sausages. Thanks to the persistence of the faction, the government reviewed its previous positions and agreed to import high - quality meat for processing, not mechanically coated products called tendons, diaphragms, and other cuts. This was first and foremost reflected in a bill to amend the customs tariff of Ukraine. However, while this bill was being considered with the adoption of the 2005 State Budget in a new edition, which essentially shuts down free economic zones in Ukraine, many domestic processors working on this cheap imported raw materials were forced to cut production and, accordingly, jobs. This situation has been taken immediately by processing companies located in free economic zones of neighbouring Russian and Belarusian states, as the regime of free trade between our countries provides them with free access to the market in Ukraine. As a result, carnivores from the Kaliningrad region and six free economic zones of Belarus redirected their exports of sausages, mammals, meat cans made from the same raw materials to Ukraine. Because you can make a lot of money on that. For example, let me give you just one person’s position as Volin Customs. If it produced 280 tons of imported meat products from the free zones of Russia and Belarus in February, they increased to 1,300 tons in April, and they grew even more in May. Such trends in the import of meat products for Ukrainian producers have become dangerous because they are under unequal economic conditions because they have to pay a rather high price for raw materials and then all taxes. This affects the price of the final product, which is objectively higher today by at least 40 to 50 percent. Thus, in response to the numerous appeals made by the leaders of the Ukrainian meat-processing combinations, the faction of the People’s Party draws the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the problem. At the same time, we suggest that the government remove from the nomenclature goods which, under the protocols of the Intergovernmental Free Trade Agreements with the Russian Federation and Belarus, move across the border without payment of duty, meat products. We hope to support the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u12	Andrew Politt has the right to speak to John Alexander Gerasimov, please. Get ready for Radion's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u13	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Two weeks ago, I made a request from this rostrum for a vital issue for veterans - the fate of hospitals - the only medical facilities in which they were provided free of charge. Collective and individual letters from veterans, requiring that hospitals be avoided, continue to be sent to the Council by the Ukrainian veteran organization. We have sent a letter to the President, the Minister of Health. Two delegations of disabled persons of the Great Homeland War visited the Ministry of Health, however, the Ministry's officials'attack on veterans'rights continues. The Minister of Health, as Chairman of the Committee of the High Council for Health, while accepting a delegation of persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War, cynically stated that turning hospitals into homes of the elderly, if you see for the State, is cheaper than hospital maintenance. The Cabinet of Ministers is still in the process of being reviewed by the President on the fate of hospitals, and the Minister of Health is already debasing the unique, expensive, ophthalmological equipment of the national Ukrainian State. The social centre for veterans of war in Cibli, by the way, is under the patronage of the President. Unfortunately, these actions are consistent with the statements made by some members of the Minister's team, which does not consider it appropriate to establish a strengthening of the eyes and other specialized offices in veteran hospitals, as they see the number of persons with disabilities of the Homeland War diminishing every year. That's what doctors say. Is it human? Aren't these people ashamed? Finally, the Ministry of Health is apparently hampered by skilled personnel who have worked with veterans for many years. The main doctors are, in particular, the director of the Ukrainian National Medical and Social Centre in Cibly, a doctor-deserved Ukrainian doctor, Grenenko Yuria Alexandrovice, whom they wish to release from office despite numerous protests by the veteran public and patients. Persons with disabilities, participants in hostilities, participants in the Great Homeland War, despite their age and health, will have the courage and will to defend their rights. They say: Hands away from the hospitals. I take it that my statement is a second-party request. I hope to receive a response to the legitimate demands of veterans in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u14	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction, is preparing. Please, Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u15	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u16	Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u17	The city of Kirov. During the three days of Kirovograd, an international literary and artistic festival of Chewchenk took place: “In a free new family”. There were more than 50 writers from Ukraine, artists, artists, and honored guests. At the call of the heart to Shevchenk, many Kirovograd came. But it has turned out to be a bitter offense for the people of Cyoreans, for in this ceremony, as a black avalanche, as an evil hate for good, the fossilism of nationalism in honor of the language of the Ukrainian language was spoken by the Checher - hater of the communist past, Professor Stephen Pushik of the University of Lviv. That is not a word, a torrent of savage hatred for good, for past achievements, means for those who have cultivated high crops, glorifying Cyrus ’ garden, who has turned it into a prosperous land, and the hometown into a center of high culture, of science, of developed industry. Word by word of mouth, he portrayed the image of the people as small - cultured, distant from the culture of the oranges, distant from Europe, expressing regret that there were streets in the city that perpetuate the names of the kats. He even asked people the question: How long will the bronze idol, or Cyrus ’ monument, be in the center of the city? But he forgot that he had set foot on the earth of the famous farmer Gitalov, who had fallen out of life in a life damaged by the changes of reformers who had lost all the wealth of the country and devastated human souls. He forgot that he had set foot on the land of Janovsky, Tobilewicz, Kropitnitsky. You can imagine what such a teacher is capable of teaching young people. The disgruntled people did not accept the filthy downpour of the so - called professor. But the resentment was intensely intense in the soul of the city’s citizens, who even questioned the celebration of such festivals. Perhaps these professors are traveling across Ukraine in order to catch up with what is left of the Reformers and completely destroy the souls of young people. In which country do they so black and destroy their history? Listen to Chewchenk’s words. He is the one who addresses you, the one who will bruise you, the one who will bruise you, the one who will guard you, because you will fare badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u18	Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda refers the right to speak to Victor Mironka. Prepare Simon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u19	Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, respected by Vladimir Mihajlović, respected people's deputies of Ukraine. It is incumbent upon you to inform of the appeals of the Kerchen Mountains and Veterans of the city, which report an illegal attempt to seize power in the City Council on 1 and 2 June 2005, illegal picketing, the blocking of the Gorsovine by members of the political organizations Pora, Our Ukraine, the Ukrainian People's Party Sobora, Majlis, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the physical impact on the employees of the riots, the Gorsovets, which endangers the city's life management system. I checked that information and made sure it was true. The force was actually used, and the workers were actually forced to stay under pressure for up to ten hours. The motivation of these individuals was that two positions — the heads of the city and the Crimea People's Deputies — would be used to decimate the city's head. But the well-respected storm troopers forgot that, first of all, only the court can determine who did it, who did it. They forgot that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 29 of their counterparts, representatives of the governing forces, held at the same time higher positions, the Ukrainian People's Deputy and members of the Presidential Administration, the Government of Ukraine and other central structures. The names of the representatives of “Our Ukraine” Poshenko, Pinzenik, socialists Nikolaenko, Seminouk and many others can be cited as examples. Respectable compatriots, we must draw attention to the fact that those who call upon us to obey the laws should set an example of compliance with the laws. That authority, which had been approved, had said that the rule of law would be upheld. However, we see the opposite. We see actual seizures, storms, violence on dissidents. I'm not protecting the city. I have condemned many of his actions and now maintain the same position. However, I believe that, I stress, only a court, if we are a legal State, can indicate who committed the crime. We have a duty, respectable fellow countrymen, to finally start establishing a rule of law. In view of the fact that I request the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, the Minister of the Interior to punish all those responsible, to compel everyone to comply with the law, including 29 people's deputies who are in executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u20	Yes, Vladimir Simonov, the Communist faction. Anatoly Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners! Vladimir Simonov, Ternopil, Communist faction. A few days ago, President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko visited our district center Ternopil on an early visit. The goal of the trip, as it sounds, is to meet with his student youth, because it's been 30 years since he graduated from the Ternopil Financial Institute and got his degree as an agricultural accountant. Well, to the honor of President Yushchenk, he asked the local authorities not to be officials. Well, as always, everything that was in the old power took over. As always, the President is an hour late for three hours, but it's not very much for the heathens, because such joy, such joy, would be sitting until evening. The city authorities were terrified by the fact that the head of the trolleybus control had moved all the poles with his hands, as we say, electrical poles and signed up for them to fall down on the President's trail. From. But it's like this, so be it. During this period, I was approached by representatives of three large thermal plants, the Chutkow Sugar Company, the Combinian Factory, the Ternopil Meat Union. The reasons are similar: the unwillingness of government and authority to help businesses solve their problems. Enterprises that were formerly the pride of the country in Soviet times gave thousands a job, maintained a beautiful infrastructure, under the previous regime, and the current bankruptcy. Business groups are desperate. Whom were they no longer referring to? To what government. To the Attorney General's Office, the Maintenance Fund, and a write-off from all over the place. As a result, no attention to people. So they made themselves available. On the day of the President’s visit, the authorities held on their heels. We understand his, let us say, personal celebration. But will the President deal with their problems? Hardly. I think so. Only lucky, as our Galicians say, is the airport staff. In part, they were paid a debt of up to 33 percent. Because they'll take it and they won't accept the President's plane. And then what? What will be the effect, festival? And I don't see why 33 percent? What, they didn't take the plane for 100? Copy that. Collectives are asking me again from the Supreme Council rostrum to ask for their help, and I do. Let them hear these groups that I am conveying to the Head of the Supreme Council their appeal. And finally. Everything would have been fine on Mr. President's visit if he hadn't said again that Belarus was bad. It's like we're not buying refrigerators, TVs, please, "get gas." And it would be better if Mr. President made his first demand: he created the first million jobs, and then we could do something about it and advise the Belarusians who have democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u22	Thank you. Anatoly Frost, group of Democratic Initiatives. Oh, I'm sorry, Democratic Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u23	Anatoly Moroz, 83 Mikhail's constituency, Zapory region, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, my distinguished colleagues, what I have to say in my speech is not new, I think, for every colleague sitting in this room and for the radio audience. But after all, I have been repeatedly asked to help by the Administration of Priazova Central Hospital. I, in turn, repeatedly turned to the superior authorities for the following problem. Today, there is a very poor situation in the area with diagnostic equipment for testing and early diagnosis of diseases such as cancer and tuberculosis. The central district hospital does not have X-rays to diagnose respiratory diseases, gastrointestinal tracts, and the population is served by the central district hospital, and it has over 32,000 inhabitants. In seeking medical assistance, residents of the region are forced to seek medical and preventive facilities in Melitopol, as well as the Novovasil County Hospital, where the X-ray machine is still operating in 1961. In view of the vast area of the Priazova region, which has a perimeter of more than 100 km, all of this has a very negative effect on the health of the population, it has resulted in a number of complaints about health care. During a number of years, the Priazavian region has been diagnosed with high levels of tuberculosis, cancer. Especially among socially vulnerable groups of pensioners, veterans, disabled persons, and children. At present, in the area of the district, the Odessa-Rostov public road passes through the village of Priasovsk, where the Priasov district center is located. In this regard, there is a high level of road accidents. In the absence of X - ray diagnostic equipment, qualified trauma assistance cannot be provided. Over the years, a child’s breathing apparatus has been missing in the maternity ward of Priabe’s central hospital, leading to the inability to provide emergency care to babies. Children’s resuscitation of a child’s hospital is 150 km away, which in many cases does not provide medical care within the early hours of delivery. There is also no modern ultrasound equipment in the area, which leads to the inability to diagnose a number of diseases. The foregoing has led to a number of negative manifestations in the provision of health care to the population. I no longer say, however, that there is not enough bed linen, dishes, not to mention the lack of funds for the very minor repairs. The Provincial Central Hospital Administration, with the consent of the Priazova District State Administration, asks for assistance in the out-of-office provision of medical and diagnostic equipment, is an X-ray device called Indiakoma, a child's artificial breathing apparatus called Boris, an ultrasound device called Aloka. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, my speech is considered to be a parliamentary request to the Ministry of Health of Mikli Policchuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. The statement has been completed. I ask the Secretariat to prepare an appropriate commission, a request based on the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies. Honorary colleagues, three factions of the "Ukrainen Region", the SDPU(O) and the "Democratic Initiatives" have applied for a recess. I would have asked them to make a statement, possibly, and we would have continued our work. Who will act? Raisa Vasilovna Bogatirovova. Invite the people's deputies to the session room, because we're going to have to vote now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished present. Yesterday, I witnessed a court appearance in Boris Kolesnikov's theatre of absurdity called "Ukrainian Judiciality." Without analyzing the essence of this action, it's a matter of lawyers, and I'm going to say what struck me as lightning. Knowing from within the content of the previous regime and analyzing what is happening now under President Viktor Yushchenk, I conclude that Yushchenko has taken over the state of Kuchmi with all its insides by the principle of "post given, accepted the post." What is happening in power and society in connection with Kolesnik’s arrest is a symptom of an infection that has been infected by the previous authorities. What's worth is the kind of moral cynicism that was demonstrated on the web yesterday by the apologists. The only contradiction between the chief of our Ukraine, the U.S. spokesman, and the bearer of the PPE's conscience in justifying the actions of the penal authorities in relation to Boris Kolesnikov, John Rizak and another 18,000 were "we do with you what you did with us." As a doctor, I want to say, a de-repaired formal thinking, a separation of consciousness, of personality, and in the people, it's called a terrible "show of paranoia." Abicena's great doctor said the truth: "It's not a disease that should be treated, it's a sick person." By applying this instruction, I'm going to try to write the first recipe for a single physician of unhealthy authority for our people. Dear voters! Let us give ourselves an honest answer. If, at that time, during the orange revolution, candidate Yushchenko opposed to the American Embassy's scenario of revolution, he said frankly to you, "My authority will collapse the dollar and the poor will become even poorer. My authority, as a result of antinational action, will offer a gas crisis. In my government will be the one who picked you up because he was the author of the Bush decrees on trusts and the order in which national money was introduced without numbers and series by Mr. Pinzenik. I will fully apply the previous practice of using the courts as an addition to the penal system of the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office," what would people say then? I am convinced that you, our constituents, would require new elections and other participants. And I'm going to say this one last time. Without exaggerating the political prisoners of Kolesnik, it is not the imprisoned Julia Timoshenko, but the diagnosis of the disease of the previous and present - day authorities is the same. The rule of government remains the principle of violence, the principle of power, and not the rule of law. As a result, we demand open courtship in the Kolesnick case with the participation of international observers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We need now, please note, to include in the agenda a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on taxpayers]] This is an extremely important bill, so I'd like to ask, dear colleagues. prepare for the vote. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 4413-D. [[on taxpayers]] Please vote. [[11:12:11]] For 323 Decision taken. Let's move on to the drafts. The factions? Please. Our Ukraine -71, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 48, People's Party - 32, Block Timoshenko - 34, SPU - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 21, SDPU - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 20, Ukraine - 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 11, Democratic Initiatives - 12, non-fractional - 10. Dear colleagues! This is suggested by the committee: for the report, up to 5 minutes, answers to questions to the rapporteur, up to 3 minutes, for the co-report, 3 minutes, answers to questions, 3 minutes, discussion and decision-making within 15 minutes. No warning? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] It'll be 45 minutes. What do you want, dear colleagues? On the question of 45 minutes, 45 minutes will be considered. Ivan Alexanderovich, what are you indignant about? No discussion? Come on. Dear colleagues, according to the rules of procedure, the issue takes 45 minutes. And we will be guided by the regulations that you are proposing, please, the report of Leapina Kseniya Mikhailovna is invited. Vitaly Homutinnick will be performing a co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u27	The honourable colleagues, the honourable national deputies, the honourable Head, the bill that I now present to you is the result of the unification of the three bills submitted by the people's MPs 7413, the people's deputies Mike, Oneschuk, Lapinu, Gureyev. 7413-1 is the national MP Musiyak and 7413-2 is the national deputies Homutinik and Burjak. During the review of the Committee on Finance and Banking, it was decided to unify the three bills because they contained a great deal of joint thesis and norms. The main point of the bill is that it is aimed at correcting the acute problems that have arisen in the application of tax legislation due to the amendment of this legislation by the State Budget Act 2005 of Ukraine. First of all, this is the issue of additional restrictions that have been imposed on small business entities that are subject to a simplified system of taxation. This bill removes these restrictions and restores the conditions of a simplified tax system to those conditions that existed prior to the adoption of the amendments to the State Budget Act. I want to emphasize that the focus of the moment is that there are limits to certain activities. And about a few hundred thousand subjects may lose the opportunity to use the simplified system literally from July 1. That is why this bill is absolutely necessary, and so the president of Ukraine defined Bill 7413 as a priority. The bill also contains some amendments to the Added Cost Tax Act, which remove the contradictions that exist today, and that some of the rules will be clarified simply because they already have problems in applying, particularly in the tourism sector, such as shipping and so on. The bill is complex today. And we understand that the people's deputies will certainly have initiatives on this bill. And so we ask for support on the basis of this bill to be able to work out the parliamentary initiatives, to take into account all the proposals that will come and to make a really useful and high-quality bill that will have a positive impact on Ukraine's economy, certainly with appropriate analysis and prediction of the consequences of this bill. But I also want to point out that this bill is only a reanimation bill, which is that it returns the conditions that existed. We are well aware that dealing with the problems that today are with a simplified tax system is required by a separate bill on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting. And I would like to inform you, my fellow Members, that the work on this bill on a simplified system of taxation is going well. Today, the board of entrepreneurs at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has taken such an initiative and is developing proposals. I invite all the national MPs who are interested, and I know that many of the national MPs have made their proposals for a simplified tax system. And we're willing to work with all the deputies and offer society a comprehensive solution to the problems of a simplified tax system. However, it is essential today to address the acute problem that has arisen from the fact that the simplified tax system has been breached in the middle of the fiscal year, which may lead, in fact, not to the advantages of the State budget, but to the actual loss of the State budget. Because small businesses are highly dynamic. And it's very easy for them to hide and go into the shadows if conditions get worse. But this is going to cost, first of all, local budgets, because I want to remind you that the only tax and fixed tax comes into local budgets and makes up a lot of the local budgets. So I urge you, my fellow honourable Members, to support the bill on the basis of maintaining a simplified system of taxation and, above all, local budgets, and to develop it into a second reading, taking into account your legislative initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for a question to the reporter for three minutes. Now let me ask you a question. When it's over. Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u29	My dear reporter, this bill is in the balance sheet of the 2005 State Budget. You know that this budget is very stressful and, God forbid, we have to do it. That's why I have a question. Has the bill been considered in a profile committee, and the bill was considered in the Budget Committee for loss to the State Budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think to the Committee on Budgets, it's rather a question for the head of the Committee on Budgets of Ludmila Suprun, who will have a co-report today. It's about coming to the State Budget. Once again, I would like to point out, Mr. President, that the actions of those norms that have been introduced into tax legislation by the State Budget Act have not been calculated and predicted. And unfortunately, they're about to lead to a drop in government revenue. So our task is to prevent this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u31	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u32	Dear Mrs. Kseniya, I am grateful that our faction is grateful to you both and to all the drafters of this law, and we will definitely vote for it, and we will not vote in favour of the State Budget Act in particular because there were these colossal problems for small and medium-sized businesses. So I have the first question for you. As you appreciate at all, how such changes could have occurred in the State Budget Act, which has already led to such, particularly, psychological transformations in business, which today is largely diverted from Ukraine. And as a matter of fact, is there any hope that in the near future the government structures or structures of the President will not again make such problems, and we will not have to correct them again in the fire order. And the question isn't as much to you as it is to Vladimir Mikhailovich. Since the law really has a very short deadline for the necessary introduction, perhaps the preparation for the second reading departs from the Rules in one week so that we can vote on it as a whole within a week, because we can simply not get there with its introduction?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u33	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. I'm not going to go back to the rhetorical question, how did this happen, how would you fix it? [[our function]] As for the future, I think we have to work with the budget committee so that it does not happen that the State Budget Act changes tax legislation in the middle of the fiscal year. I think it's our common mission, the people's deputies, and we have to be here to guarantee the stability of tax legislation. As for the procedure proposed, we will be very grateful, and we are ready to work intensively to work on it during the week, taking into account the truly parliamentary proposals. And really, a very tense term -- by July first, we want to fix the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u34	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u35	Dear Xenia Mikhaylovna! Vasily Nadrag, People's Party. Please tell me if we understand the situation correctly. You're saying that we have a simplified system, and all you're suggesting is to simplify the system. But isn't there a mix of the terms "simplified system" and "easy system" of taxation? That is, if there is an element in the reduction of payments to the budget, regardless of the structure of receipt, it is already a benefit. I would like you to comment on this, and then it will be clear to you that the financial costs will not be received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u36	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I want to emphasize that right now what we're doing, it's not really fundamentally changing the existing simplified system, it's just not allowing us to apply restrictions to certain types of activity. So in other words, there's no difference between a simplified system and what we're proposing right now. As far as the simplified system is concerned, your question is more likely not about this bill, but about the bill to be considered, namely the bill on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting. But I want to tell you right away, for example, about corporate legal entities, which are taxed under a simplified system: 10 percent of gross income, i.e. from the scope of implementation, is our estimate, according to the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, similar tax contributions from similar entities, which are lower in the general tax system. I also want to emphasize that social contributions are a separate topic. Today, social contributions to social funds are paid by such subjects of the simplified tax system in addition to the only tax paid separately for those employed, and this is settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Thank you, Kseniya Mikhailna. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u38	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The bill proposed for consideration was designed to address tax problems arising from the adoption of the latest amendments to the State Budget 2005 Act. The Committee on Finance and Banking discussed three draft laws on 31 May of this year at its meeting. These are Bills 7413, 7413-1 and also 2. In considering the bills, the committee noted that, since the standards of these bills in their majority were similar, it would be appropriate to register one draft law, which was further elaborated on the signatures of those authors, which were in the three separate bills. Thus, we are now considering a unified draft law that is sponsored by Lapina, Homutinnik, Musiyak, Burjak, Osika, Onichtuk, Guriev, Mother, and Kyroyanz. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned. First of all, it is proposed to return to small businesses the rules of the game that were in place before the adoption of changes to the State budget, namely, to exclude from the Law on Tax Added on the Compulsory Registration of the Host Subject, the payer of the single and fixed tax as a payer of added value in case the total amount of the transaction was exceeded 300,000 dollars. There are also restrictions on the application of the simplified tax system introduced by the State Budget Act for such activities as audits, legal services, real estate transactions, drug trafficking, and architectural operations. The bill also eliminates the requirement of the Income Tax Act, whereby a private entrepreneur who provides services or works for more than one month a year is compared to a hired worker and has to pay a tax on the income of a natural person, except for taxes to be paid by a single tax subject. Secondly, the bill proposes to regulate the supply of tourist services by tourist operators and tourist agents, taking into account European practices as well as the practice of domestic tourism operators. The issue of donor raw materials is settled, namely, after the entry into force of the budget law, when Ukrainian producers who use the donor raw material are obliged to give the tax office a simple bill of lading. Such a legislative requirement has put at risk the existence of a wide range of light industry enterprises operating on this scheme.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u39	Please finish, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u40	Because avalancing bills is an extra cost to manufacturers that lead to product travel. The bill proposes to allow a simple bill to be applied alongside the billed promissory notes. I want to emphasize that there are still separate standards, but with the exception of time, I can't stop at them. But I will answer questions. The main scientific and expert office supports this bill on the basis of adoption. The Committee also notes that the adoption of the bill regulates the contradictions arising from the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 and recommends the adoption of the Bill under number 7413 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u41	Yes. Honorable colleagues, sign up for questions if they are. Names of the national MPs, please show them. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u43	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u44	Dear reporter, please tell me whether there are any calculations that relate to budget losses when you implement those standards that you have entered. Because the question is, I've also read the findings of the science department. They point out that according to their calculations, such losses are in the budget. They don't really show up anywhere. So I'm surprised at even the very conclusion of scientific management. First, they say that there are budget losses, and then they offer to accept them in the first reading. Did your committee make calculations, or did it have a budget committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u45	I think the budget committee will evaluate on. We asked that, in furthering the second reading, we assess the budget losses, but we can say that the opinion that was in our committee, which is now difficult to believe that the State will benefit from what it has banned, practically work for small businesses on the rules that have been. And if a State receives anything in the budget from that or the turnover. Therefore, we believe that if we allow small businesses to work, it will only stimulate economic growth and the State budget's income accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u46	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u47	Alexander Pecklusenko, Zaporozhye District, “Regions of Ukraine” faction. I believe that the main contribution of small businesses to the budget is job creation. And I think that small business has done enough and will still be able to do so if laws like the one you're reporting today are brought to life as quickly as possible. And I'm interested in two main questions. First. You worked in detail with social organizations representing small and medium-sized businesses. Tell me if there are any points to their proposals that are not taken into account in this law. And the second question. What objections to the Cabinet of Ministers, what are their arguments under this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u48	We met with business associations both in the offices and under the walls of Parliament. Yesterday, there were literally these people who asked for this law, and we took into account all the proposals that were made and sounded in different ways from small businesses and from the associations of those entrepreneurs. All these proposals are therefore taken into account in the draft law. There is certainly a lack of acceptance of this law from the relevant ministries, but, I think, in the process of working on second reading, we will try to remove all these unfavourable articles and try to remove them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u49	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. No, dear fellows, time is up. For the time being, Mother’s microphone can be turned on and on. Oh, they signed up. We have 24 minutes to discuss. Please, Mother microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u50	I would like to address the members of the Supreme Council with such an offer. We are the first to initiate this law, but we were also against budget decisions under this law. It seems to me that we should not discuss this law today, but we should boldly adopt it. Because we've made our own obstacles, and now we're making heroic efforts to prove that they need to be removed. I have an offer to accept without discussion and show everyone that the Supreme Council has never stood in the way to make the situation worse for entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now we're going to talk about this, because the MPs insist that time is still in line with the rules. I just want to emphasize one thing. It's a paradoxical situation. It's clear that by adopting the amendments to the Budget Act, we've made working conditions worse for small and medium-sized businesses. Everyone started talking about what needed to be changed, and everybody said that we needed to make changes, but now I see that there's a process that doesn't need to take these changes. There will be such a paradox that they said we should accept, but the Supreme Council is blocking this process. This is how it's going to look. Andrew School, please. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. We've got 23 minutes to do the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u52	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I, by the way, want to agree with the chairman that really, during the budget vote, there were processes that needed to be corrected. And I fully support that this correction is necessary. But let's remember the statement here by the minister of finance from this rostrum, and where there was a discussion in a closed, I'd say, a very limited parliamentary circle, unfortunately, that's what happened, the issue of the 2006 budget, the budgetary resolution. And it was said that the budget is a balance. This is indeed a balance. I agree that Deputy Assadchev is claiming to be the author of this winged phrase, and I want it to sound really, really on the air, and so everyone knows, yeah, that's really his phrase. And so I'm actually based on this hard-to-get balance, let's think about how this budget was made, who was actually the author of the budget? The previous government. Well, as he's been told, about this government, I don't want to take up your time. Later, a gentleman or a fellow citizen worked with this budget, let’s say, Azarov worked. There was another situation. And just later on, the government, I say again, was trying to make it all out of, well, something like a configuration that you can vote for in a Parliament that won't be ashamed of. So there's a huge effort, no one's arguing. In this room I think there's very few people who would say that now there's nothing wrong in small business, in small businesses. There's a question after. The promissory notes, there's a question on many things, but we have to come to a well-founded and motivated decision and say here that in a week, in two days we vote first, second, third, fourth and fifth readings, well, at least that's not right. As a minimum, this is a very soft formulation. Therefore, it is not necessary to run in order to stumble and fall, but it is necessary to run in order to reach the goal of winning. The advantage in this situation will be to take into account both the balance of budgets and the necessary adjustments, which in principle are also necessary, but they cannot and have no right to harm the budget. Because now 57% of the budget goes into the social sphere. From what will we take, from what will we refuse? On the other hand, small entrepreneurs are top budget fillers, and this too cannot be avoided. So I'm a very neat, very progressive, very balanced discussion of this law and no rush, and all the relevant committees have to give a resolution: both the budget committee and the banking committee. After the first reading, make the necessary adjustments and go to the balance sheet, as well as to resolve the inequalities that were making room when the budget was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. John Rešnjak will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national MPs, honourable voters, let's call it fair. The government has done a lot of stupid things, and one stroke of change in the 90 Laws has been made, and we've listened to it and done it. The Law on Budget completely destroyed the entire existing system of laws. I was definitely against it. Where is Julia Volodymyrna? The president presented her with a positive five, and some of the lesos here said: Five plus, after the presidential five. Those three with the minus should be put in for that. That's understandable to everyone. Correcting the mistakes made by the economic bloc should be done now and urgently. I don't know, I have questions to the authors, to those who reported it. From my Law 7438, 7439, which tried to correct these mistakes, it is literally written in this law now the proposals to be made. My name's really not there. God is with him with authority. Well, people, let's just say that it takes into account the opinions of such a man and Party of such defenders as Yuri Carmazin. Okay? One day let's make justice happy, this is what I'm talking to you, but you've taken this literally. And now I'm saying that today, my dear colleague the previous speaker, we are late to correct our mistakes and to applaud such actions and not admit our mistakes. The government made a mistake against small businesses, the government started to overshadow this business, so tell me, we made a mistake. And what they're trying to fix right now, and they're saying, come on, and the president said they made a mistake, so let's fix it now, by accepting it on two readings. Because there are huge mistakes now. We are now, and the cost of going west to the Ukrainian ports has increased, and we are now outflowing ships transporting transit cargo because they are choosing Russian ports, Romanian ports. Now, the voluntary decision of the Minister of Transport of Redfish in a 50-per-cent cluster from Timoshenko to pay immediately for the transport has caused such serious damage to the State budget and in general to the structure of the Ukrainian economy, which we will later understand in a year what we are doing. Now in metallurgy, yesterday a committee was fully assembled, what is now going on, stop and why factories are stopping. No one can stand these price hikes. That's why I urge you, Your Honor. Let's say if we made a mistake, let's be honest, we're all wrong, we've all figured it out. And we're here, applauding the budget, and they're wrong. And let's fix them now. We're going to correct this mistake and we're going to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u55	Ivan Mikhailovich Rishnjak, faction of the People’s Party. Victor Mironenko will be next. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u56	Ivan Rishnyak, 162 constituency. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to fully support Yuri Karmazin's statement in the plan because, despite the fact that there is such a bill today, we are already seriously late to correct those mistakes that have been made before. I'm going to read literally a few lines from the call of the participants in the round table of Romanian entrepreneurs on the Issue who write, "Inconsequential and often contradictory actions of the authorities testify to the absence of a whole state policy on small businesses. Small businesses need a comprehensive solution to problems that will give entrepreneurs confidence in their future. In this context, we ask you to facilitate the timely resolution of existing problems in the simplified taxation system, taking into account our proposals in the development and consideration of draft legislative acts in the field of small business, to speed up the development and adoption of the simplified taxation, calculation and reporting of small business entities." What are they asking? Change the current four contributions to the mandatory state insurance for a single social contribution and reduce the total amount of these contributions from 37.66 percent to 20 percent. Separate the principles of taxation of such entrepreneurial activities that are carried out by members of one family, family, and small businesses. By the way, it's not even included in our project. Enter the differentiation between fixed tax rates depending on the type of activity and the level of income of citizens in the area concerned. Foresee the possibility of an annual vacation for the simplifieds from paying taxes for this period. Dear colleagues, we can make a lot of comments on this, and we have them. And I believe that, with the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law of 25 March 2005, number 2505, a person who is subject to a simplified system of taxation or exemption from payment of the added value tax has no right to receive budgetary compensation for the added cost. The bill proposes to renew the said right to budgetary compensation, but then the bill does not take into account that when a person chooses certain rates of simplified taxation, such a person may not pay the added value tax. The People's Party faction supports this bill. It's very necessary. But we must consider, and we want our proposals to be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u57	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, distinguished representatives of small and medium-sized businesses! The Communist faction supports these amendments and will vote in favour. Why? We're talking to everyone who's been thrown out of the business and forced to earn a piece of bread, which is what they call you today, representatives of small and medium-sized businesses. The politicians who put you on the field only used you to seize power. We Communists have warned that large capital, i.e. the salt thieves from the Mayan, namely the oligarchy and Yushchenko, through the power of nationalists and socialists will destroy you when they come to power, what they have done successfully, and that is certainly a reduction in the number of jobs and the volume of implementation. What did it take from the first steps is this power to destroy your business, that is, your piece of bread? First of all, the meat crisis was organized, and this hit you, respected entrepreneurs, hit on those who were engaged in the rural business, who were involved in the industrial processing business, who were providing and filling the market today and providing normal, quality products. They staged a gas crisis, and they hit you again, because the oligarchs used their excesses, and they used them, and they went into your pocket. You need to smell, plant, clean, transport, bring in a lot more. Now, you've gone back into your pocket, because you didn't believe that power and you kept your income in dollars or other numbers. I mean, they opened doors to take over the market by Western transnational corporations and went into your pocket. The budget was again lashed out because it was not the oligarchs who invaded and robbed their people that promised that they would have clean hands, especially what they had done to the Attorney General's Office. That's how they got in your pocket again. Today, I would like to say, distinguished entrepreneurs, it is the tax administration of the Government of Yushchenka that has received and has a secret order for you to pay two per cent of the tax turnover. If you don't pay, you're blacklisted, and you're being punished, so you're taking away the future. Your withdrawals have increased by two or three times as much under the current authority -- it's going back to your pockets, to your families and to your future. If this draft law is not supported today, the small and medium-sized business of the shadow oligarchs of the shadow economy is also overshadowed. Conclusion. The power of nationalists and socialists today leads to the main conclusion of Ukraine's pre-sale training. And you don't need a small and medium-sized business, because Ukraine is being run into SOT and EEC, and there's no need for a competitive environment, there should be a clean territory there today. The Communist faction will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u59	Mikola Noshchenko, Democratic Ukraine MP. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u60	Mikola Noshchenko, 160 constituency, Volodymyr Litvina constituency. Dear colleagues, with an enviable period of time, it is two, three times a year that we are amending the existing legislation to increase tax pressure on individual subjects of taxation. And what is typical is that at the time of preparation, everyone asks not to accept these changes. Then there's the sobering up, if we can call it that, we're preparing new changes to go back to the old extremities. And again all will be, all of us today are being asked to receive. The participants in the process were almost constant. It's the Mine Economics, Minfin, the profile committee. Now we feel like we've got one. more people who start lobbying for tourism. It is a pleasure to see this branch rise from its knees. "Democratic Ukraine" supports this law in the first reading. In our view, it will be necessary to take into account the characteristics of the work of simplified subjects. We know when in one night project institutes, automobile companies, state enterprises spread out into dozens of simplifications and avoid paying taxes. There is also a concept, respected colleagues, like incompetent persons who are now taking the most active part in. as subjects, as individuals entrepreneurs working for a simplified system. Thus, a person who has a working retirement age does not even, according to the law in force, have responsibility for children, for parents, for marriage. All of this is translated into the state, taken over by the state. What do we do? Today, a pensioner who is 70 years of age or older is working on a simplified system, and as of January 1, they started paying contributions to the Pension Fund for themselves. [[I was approached by an entrepreneur 74 years old]] Not for those who work. In my opinion, and when we talked to the drafters on the budget committee, we said we should take into account that the pensioner should pay the Pension Fund only on his own terms, provided he wants to increase the pension. I think the bill on this issue has been submitted to me, and I would ask that we take it into account and take it to the reading room. in the second reading. We're creating our faction for creating conditions of farming for those who work under a simplified scheme, so that it's long-term, so that it's clear, transparent and differentiated by categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u61	Thank you. John the Rabbit passes the word to Valery Assadchev, a faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Prepare the Kyroyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u62	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear friends! We will, of course, support this bill, although we believe that it should be voted on in the first reading, because it still needs serious work. But this bill is the first piece of what was done in the budget. Sadly, the Supreme Council does not study its own mistakes. And I think that what we're wasting our time today is what the Supreme Council stressed in the budget. Why is this the first tray? Because others will follow this tape, and there are many that have been accepted in the budget. By machine building, we are giving our own market to the Russians today. We just went up, we started to have a little bit of high-tech, we got a little bit of this budget, small and medium-sized business, aircraft building, shipbuilding and all. We've practically had a tremendous impact on all of our domestic production. So I'd like to ask the question first of all: "How long will we be taking budgets in one day?" My friends, let's find a way. We did it with Azar, then we realized that we were wrong, we were correcting agriculture for a year with this VAT, we didn't know what to do. Now we've made the same mistakes again. The Prime Minister came out, it's a nice report, and she was telling me how great it would be, and here you are, please, the realities that are in the economy. Yes, the budget is a balance. Everything has to be counted, everything, every number, every direction, every tax change or even its administration. It's only then that we don't get in trouble for our economy, and that's when someone comes to us. No one, ever, will come to us if we accept budgets like this. If that's how we're going to adopt the Budget Resolutions. So I would very much like this first tape to be a very good lesson for us. As long as we have to work on the budget, we'll work as hard as we can. The Americans have been working on the financing of Iraq in Parliament for more than two months, more than two months. The strategic issue for the country was. We allow ourselves an hour's budget. So I would like to ask you, in the first reading today, to accept. I think we're going to work on it and we're going to fix the mistakes that were in the budget. But for the future, I would very much ask that we never make such mistakes again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u63	Thank you, Sergey Kyroyanz, non-fractional. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I am a co-author of this Act and I would like to share some of the views on this Act. The law is controversial, there are some contentious points. But it is clear that the adoption of this Act is primarily necessary to correct mistakes made in the adoption of the budget. I would not like to politicize this Act because the provisions under this Act are purely economic. In this regard, I would like to give you a few examples. For example, if we take the Avalid Bills Act. In conclusion, the Cabinet of Ministers stated in support of the Act that the adoption of invalid bills would improve the circulation of bills. Why does the country need to improve the circulation of bills? That's what the banks need, no one else. The adoption of this Act is therefore a pure government business. Again, I may have said a little bit. This is not about the Government, but about the individual members who consider the adoption of the Act to be business. What is avalanche? These entities that complete the budget should pay about 3 per cent of the value of the transactions they conduct, provide a guarantee that is almost higher than the amount of the loan that the bank undertakes to repay by means of this avalidated bill, by at least 30 per cent. Thus, the business entity, which is the only one who fills the budget, not the ones who tell you about it gets hit at least by 3 per cent, then by collateral, then by fund-blocking and so on and so on. Another example is that the budget is filled with traditional ways, but there are not traditional ways that the world enjoys. For example, let's say the development of new industries of entrepreneurship, tourism, business and so on. I want to say a few words about what doesn't exist in the country, is golf, it's a sport called golf. In a few years, it will be an Olympic sport. We don't have it in the country until it's developed. There are a number of companies that I have something to do with which I have completed the construction of a golf centre in Ukraine. Unique equipment worth several hundred thousand dollars has been imported into the country. This equipment was imported under the Ukrainian-Canada Investment Protection Agreement under the auspices of the State-protected investment fund. The budget cancelled these preferences. The contract was implemented for nine months. And on April 5th it was finished. But given that the last 5 per cent of the contract was made after 1 April, the entire contract was confirmed by VAT. That is, it is a direct violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u65	Please, Vladimir Cherniak, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u66	Vladimir Černjak, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear colleagues, today we are correcting the shortage of government and parliament. All of us today have talked about correcting mistakes. No, we're correcting no mistake. An error is when we do not know what the consequences will be. Both government and parliament have the right to make mistakes. In this case, it is not a mistake because the results were predicted. And that's what we're talking about, that's what many MPs have been talking about, that was obvious. So it's not a mistake, it's a stupidity, it's a government nonsense, and it's Parliament's stupidity. And let's face it. Not all Parliament, okay, I agree. But Parliament voted enthusiastically. This is evidence of the lack of adequate economic thinking of the government and of Parliament. Economic primitiveism is the foundation of economic policy in Ukraine. It's worth eliminating all the privileges, all the zones, putting everyone on a level playing field, eliminating the simplified system -- and everything's gonna be okay, everything's gonna be okay, there's gonna be an increase in the coming. It's stupid. The deterioration in business conditions leads to a reduction in budget revenues. Improving the working conditions of an enterprise, particularly a small one in this case, leads to an increase in revenue to the budget. Because it's new jobs, it's pay, and from there it's pay taxes, it's profit, it's where the income tax goes to the budget. That's why it's an axiom. You can't make it worse for the business to work, because in the end it leads to lower revenue to the budget. In an effort to increase the budget, the government is making business conditions worse, thus reducing budget revenues. We're trying to fix this nonsense right now, and we're trying to increase the budget. And the last. Dear friends, let's put an end to the practice of adopting the budget and making changes to the laws. We've talked about this a lot. Let's stop, let's not agree to any promises that will be better. The budget should be based on existing legislation. Period. And by adopting the budget, we can't make any.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u67	Thank you. We've already taken two minutes. Gabrieluk, with the motive of voting, a minute, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u68	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, in order to decide whether to vote or not to vote, we must answer each other's question: are we going to build a powerful, effective democracy mechanism in the country or not? And what is the basis of this very democracy? Frankly, it's a small and medium-sized business. And if we want to finally destroy the future of our Power. Then let us all block the adoption of these laws, especially if we see when the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine - everyone is saying that we have agreed with business, we will support it, and what really happens? Where are we going? What are we doing again, thinking the other, and talking the third? It shouldn't be in the country. Entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized businesses expect the Supreme Council to have effective significant results, and it needs to be further developed. Today it is necessary to adopt it on first reading and to entrust the Committee with consideration and adoption as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u69	Thank you. On the basis of the Suprun vote, we will vote. Look at the board, ladies and gentlemen. Have patience.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Unfortunately, the Committee on Budget Issues has not yet considered this bill, because it is only submitted on 01.06 this year, but it can be adopted on the first reading, and we can fully prepare the calculations on the impact on the State Budget Act for the second reading in the Budget Committee, so that we can assess the cost of adopting this bill in the Supreme Council Hall. In adopting the Budget Act and amending some other legislation, I would like to draw your attention: it was amended not by the legislation on the budget in tax legislation, but only by the tax laws. So I propose that this error be corrected. We talked about it to the government, unfortunately the government didn't listen to us, at least the minister of finance denied making such changes, but we can fix this mistake in the Supreme Council Hall and allow entrepreneurs to work peacefully. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let me remind you, members of the Conciliation Council that sat down in the morning, and then we met with the entire Cabinet of Ministers. And you'll recall that at the morning meeting of the Deputy Prime Minister, who is currently cooperating on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers with the Supreme Council, Roman Petrovich Immortal, and then in the course of the meeting of faction leaders, committee heads with all the composition of the government, Prime Minister. We've heard the President's public statements on a number of occasions that we really need to immediately adopt a bill that relates to that mistake, Professor Cherniak called it non-parliamentary, something else that you and I have allowed in this session room. Time does not endure, so we need to adopt this law now. I'm voting on the adoption as Bill 7413-d, as a law. Vote. [[12:03:37]] For 326 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on the State Fund is being complied with. The law was passed in general. I repeat: the law has been passed in general. We voted, I voted on the adoption law as a whole. 326 votes. The law is passed as a law. Draft Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, registration number 7364. Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. How much time, Valentina Petrovna? Five minutes, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a request. Today’s focus is on the draft Law on the State Property Fund. The draft law allows for a balanced impact on the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund by the legislative branch of power and the executive branch of power. So please, pay attention! The Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees with the President of Ukraine to appoint and release the head of the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u73	Valentina Petrovna, wait, please! Valentina Petrovna, please stop. Dear colleagues, once again, the law was passed with 326 votes. Please continue. Dear colleagues, the factions of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, oppose the fact that she does not want to vote in favour of the law that she is agitating. Please, Valentina Petrovna, continue your consideration of the matter. Keep going. Time again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the bill on the State Property Fund is the necessary bill to protect the employees of the State Property Fund and to determine the legal status of such an institution, which is in fact the accountable Supreme Council of Ukraine, subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and this law allows us today to bring about a system of privatization that you have criticized in this sessionary room. The State Property Fund has been introduced to the session hall six times and has been vetoed six times. Because in order to act in accordance with existing legislation, the tasks that Parliament is putting before us need to adopt this bill. First of all, it allows the State Property Fund to report annually and quarterly to you in this session hall. We see in the draft law every year that the State Property Fund provides quarterly information on privatization, decommissioning, reorganization and so forth. So, I think that with the adoption of this law, the relationship between the state property law and the efficiency of the administration of public property, we will be able to complete the work that you have entrusted me with by voting in this session hall, trusting such work as should be done by the State Property Fund. Besides, I'd like to ask you again. The State Property Fund has recently increased its number of appeals, particularly in order to protect public interests. It is these interests in which you ask for protection, taking into account the counsel of your constituents. That is why this law affords you the opportunity to defend your interests by speaking and doing your petitions to us. Thus, the law clearly defines the legal mechanism for fulfilling its functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u75	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u76	Dear friends! I'd like to make a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u77	Valentina Petrovna, keep speaking. Or let's get out of here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Valentina Petrovna, are you going to report whether I'm going to call for a break and take off your question? You need to take the law or you don't want it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I do. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much. I want to talk to you. Today, the State Property Fund lives without law. Let's either give you a chance to report, or let's take a break, please. I don't want us to ruin the adoption of the State Property Fund Act today. I'm asking you very much because I'm a colleague like you. But if you want us to work, let's take the law, or let's figure it out. Believe me, you saw the privatization in the Dnipropetrov region of Lakes. You were convinced that privatization was carried out by a machine gun. The employees of the holding fund are not protected. And if we want to protect, let's eventually adopt the law and somehow regulate our legal relationship. I have people working without law today and going to objects, doing checks without law. Please, I can't be. On the one hand, I'm given the word, I have to report, and on the other hand, there's the blockage. You have to understand, I have a law to report to you today. Or you, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u79	Please sign up for the questions. Please, five minutes. Carmazin, Droguncs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Valentino Petrovno! I support the adoption of the law, but I would like it to be written in this law that the foundation is controlled by both the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's because you are one of the authors of this law, along with Alexander Alexander Moroz, that I point out to you that President Kuchma was then, and now there is President Yushchenko. And we are obliged to take into account his responsibilities, which are foretold and flowing from article 102 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Valentino Petrovna, not taking into account this system of subordination of the Cabinet of Ministers, as you recorded, which I deny in this formula, and disregarding the role of the President is inconvenient to the Constitution. I'd like to hear your opinion: how do you feel about this being corrected urgently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u81	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. What I'm saying is that the rule that was written is written in accordance with the Constitutional Court ruling that was published and we have a corresponding record. As for your proposal, by the way, it's listed in the science and science department, I think we can take this proposal into account when we're working on the second reading. What's more, you know, the release of the head and the appointment of the head of the holding fund is under the consent of Parliament. This is the bond that allows the State Property Fund to be subordinated to the President today, because there is in fact his appointment and release in this regard today. If we need to be more specific, I think on the second reading, we'll work it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u82	Please, Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give my word to my colleague in the faction Alexander Mikolayovich Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u84	Alexander Masenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u85	Thank you very much, Sergey Ivanovich. Valentino Petrovy, in your report, you have pointed out several times that a fund of state property cannot work without law, and that is indeed the case. I agree with you, but what guarantee is that if we adopt the Law, we will do everything by law. Here we have the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Constitution says that an officer in the executive service cannot reconcile his office with a national deputy. And you're exactly like that and that's about 30 more. So what guarantee is there that it's still going to be like this? We cannot, the Communist faction, vote as long as such, such lawlessness in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u86	Alexander Mikolaiovich, thank you for both your questions and your comments. But I want to tell you that today I am the author of this Law, and I want to report that we are adopting the Law, and I'm putting in a status order right now is the first. Secondly, I'm going to give you an example of what we have here today in actual legislation. And in the Law on the Rent of State Property, and in the Law on Communal Property, the Law of Communion. Sorry, the Law on the Privatization of State Property states that if there is an object and an investor wants to purchase it, he applies to the Maintenance Fund, and the Holding Fund is obliged to either rent it or sell it. If I don't want to do this, they're going to court. A decision is made at a circuit center. The holding fund does not know that there was a court meeting there and it was not clear whether this was accepted. I took part in that courtroom. The court’s decision comes into effect, the executioner comes in and says: “You are obliged to sell such an object. I say I can't sell it because it's profitable, and it's not part of the privatization program. No, you have to comply with the court's decision. If I don't, I'm facing a criminal case right now. Let me give you an example. When the question of a ferrosolid factory was considered, in one hour, I received 24 court decisions in 15 minutes. First, run to the congregations in Nicopol, in the second city to run to Dniprožinsk. In 15 minutes 24 court rulings, 24 executive letters contradict each other. And everyone opened up an implementation for me. Or we will act in the legal field and we will change the law and we will protect the employees of the Holding Foundation so that it will not be the way we have today in Dnipropetrovsk, when the automatic automaton was privatized by the Laker. Or we will live in 1993 where the fund’s employees are not protected at all. That's why I'm asking, it's not necessary to protect the fund's employees, it's also necessary to protect you, because when you come to me with a parliamentary request and you have to be tested for the illegality of privatization, for the violation of privatization, people go out there who have to have adequate protection. And we defend your interests as a member of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u87	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u88	Please pass the word to the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u89	Alexander Pecklusenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u90	Alexander Pecklusenko, “Region” faction, Zaporozhye region. Valentina Petrovna, we know you as a colleague. And I think the fund and the state won with your coming. At the same time, I believe, for example, that you should not give strong assessments to your predecessors. You have something to do today. I don't think you need to give an evaluation on the issue of reprivatization. Because your main challenge is to create an investment climate. In this regard, do you not consider it appropriate to establish a centre that not only sells public property but manages it effectively? I mean to connect your department with the State Reserve.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. And what I'm saying is that you've noticed that there's no criticism in my speeches about predecessors. I don't use, they say, three envelopes. I would also like to say about the management of public property. The Act on the Management of State Property Objects, which we have adopted with you in this session hall, clearly spells out a mechanism that combines with a sector-territorial principle, that is, the ministries, there is an object that belongs to, the casinos, please, the Ministry manages and influences this process. As for the share of government property in stock companies. The same is true of us in the Law on the Management of State Property Objects, and in this law, that representatives of the Trust Fund are academics of supervisory councils, heads of supervisory boards, members of audit committees, heads of review boards, heads of audit committees, depending on what package of shares is in one enterprise or another. And that makes it possible for the Ministry of State today to influence, that is, to combine the role of the Ministry of State and the Fund of State Property. Today, with different forms of property, efficiency for government property, we are only now caught up. As soon as we started doing inventory, 20,000 objects were lost in Ukraine in general. It turns out that we even have things that work effectively, but they don't belong to the State Register, or to the municipal government, or to any ministry. Even contracts with executives are not concluded anywhere. And now we've started doing this job. But once again, it's hard to work when you don't have a tool, and the tool is the law. That's why I'm talking about the adoption of this law today. If there is no law, it is convenient for the Keeper Fund to work in the dark, to exercise telephone law rather than to work as a normal body.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u92	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Economic Policy, the management of the national economy. The property of those investments, Budjigan Philip Philippovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u93	Honorable National Deputies, Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Agriculture, Property and Investment 17.05 05 examined the Ukrainian National Deputies' draft of the Ukrainian Law on the State Property Fund, supported it and invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis. The bill proposes to define the legal basis for the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, its status, functions, mandate and order of implementation. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, notes that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Property Fund can be based on the following considerations and proposals. And there's a lot of them. I'll call it the base. First. According to the second article of the first project, it is envisaged that the State Property Fund of Ukraine is accountable, controlled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, the formula does not cover the relationship between the Fund and the President of Ukraine. Meanwhile, the Head of State, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, shall appoint and release the Head of the Fund, in accordance with the agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which shall be a form of control over its activities. [[Article 106, paragraph 14]] Let's also point out that the exercise of control over the Fund by the President of Ukraine also comes from the mandate of the President as a guarantor of the rights and freedoms of a citizen. Next. Supporting the subordination of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine’s management of state property, which comes out of article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine. I find this subordination of privatization questionable. This is due to the fact that privatization of state property is carried out under separate procedures that are specifically defined by privatization laws. Under these laws, the Fund cooperates to a large extent with the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters relating to the privatization of state property. And for example, with regard to the implementation of the State Privatization Programme, the Fund reports directly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the subordination of the Cabinet of Ministers on privatization issues will make privatization more difficult, since many of its issues will need to be further aligned with the Cabinet. In this regard, part 2 of article 1 of the project is proposed in the following edition. The Ukrainian State Property Fund is accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is under the control of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian State Property Fund for Governmental Property Administration is subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There are a number of comments on specific articles of the bill. They're listed, in particular, in the conclusion of the Science and Export Authority. In principle, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u94	Thank you. Any questions? I won't. Sign up. Please, on board for three minutes. Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u95	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Your Honor, I was going to ask the previous reporter this question, but I'm asking you to answer it. In the number of tasks of the State Property Fund, the bill includes the implementation of State policy on the administration of public property entities for the exercise of their own powers, as well as government property, and so forth. On the other hand, state-owned enterprises are in the field of subordination of the Minprompolicies and other ministries. Whether there is a whole - state strategy in the management of state or semi - state industrial enterprises. How would it be done, or would it not be more appropriate to limit the Fund's task of empowering the owner with respect to the right state of shares of enterprises, and to transfer management functions to the Minprompolitics? Because efficient manufacturing requires investment, and management of government equity packages requires increasing dividends, i.e. they are the opposite. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u96	I understand your question. And if we look at the first article, in general, when we prepare for the second reading, we're basically going to have to put it this way: "The foundation of state property is the central authority of the executive authority, and put it first, which implements the statutory powers of the owner of state property, and then it's to say that it "imples public policy in the area of privatization." That's the first one. The other one. As far as authority is concerned. According to this bill, in principle, there is a State Register, a State Property Fund will create a State Register of all state-owned enterprises, and where the state has its shares. [[Now I'm going to find out what the article is.]] And so, then at the State Property Fund, when all of this is registered, the State Property Fund will be properly transferred to one or the other ministries for administration. But everything will be under the control of the State Property Fund. That's the basic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u97	Andrew Polit, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u98	Andrey Polit, faction of the Company. Please pass on the word to Kuharchuku Nikolai Andreevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u99	Mikola Kuharczuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u100	Chef, Communist faction. Dear Philip Philipovich, to this day since the establishment of the named fund, it has been better known as a foundation for the embezzlement of state property. How do you think the committee, with the adoption of the law, will it contribute to the strengthening of state ownership, above all, in the basic sectors of the economy, as the basis for the stability of social guarantees in society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u101	Thank you for asking, Mikola Andryovich. The point is that if you look closely at the law and look at the functions, the functional responsibilities, there are very well described functional responsibilities, such as the fund, according to its tasks. And the first function for the first time is in the sphere of state economic policy and government. In other words, if we're still changing article 1 to put state economic policy and government first, then the fund can really be called the State Property Foundation, not the State Property Disposal Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u102	Yes, Vassil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u103	Dear Philip Philippovich, the main problem that concerns me and the faction of the People's Party is the following. The Housing Fund and the regulatory framework that had been before the Act had called for the control of its activities by the executive branch more than strictly. And here's the public's control, it was easy to say, sorry, zero. And from there was a lot of questions. Why people? The population, society as a whole, is only aware of what happened and how privatization took place and everything else. I am interested in this bill, which mechanisms are put in place for the public control of the Housing Fund and its activities, and this is the key. And second moment. How and how will the management of the Hosmein Foundation be monitored by the executive branch? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u104	I think that this bill is based on principles, and when you prepare for second reading, you will make your specific suggestions to a specific article, and we will take them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u105	Question time's up, dear fellows. Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we have 21 minutes to discuss. Okay? Please show the names of the national MPs who are registered. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. We'll have Yuri Carmazin next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u106	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky constituency Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to inform you that Professor Cherniak has declared that the word "stupid" is bad and he will continue to use simply "minority." It's much more intelligent. I think, for some reason, that perhaps too early we are still adopting the State Property Fund Act. Why too early? Because there's something else. I had the impression that we would adopt this law when there was nothing left. Then there would be a beautiful law, a democratic law, and everything in it would be transparent there and so on. That's the first one. The other one. It seems to me that the State Property Fund, and I remember how it was created at the time, because the government was its foundation for state property, was the ruling party. And then all of a sudden, it was all passed on to one single fund. Today, it must be recognized that it is a brilliant organization, regardless of who, when, led it for a long and long time. Because living up to the enormous wealth of a great nation in the center of Europe in 10 years is really a genius. And I totally understand that the highest point here has reached Chechetov, who learned to speak so quickly that we didn't really understand what he was talking about, but the case is done. It's already seen its real results. I would very much like to say from this rostrum. We use the word "nationalization" and "reprivatization" very carelessly today. Obviously, it's fair to say that if we're talking about something that needs to be returned to the state, it's only on one condition: it's when privatization is done with gross violations. Because the Treasury can be described as a very simple or very resourceful club, or a very limited liability society. In what way does this society serve the supremacy of power, in fact, as well as their domestics. There is no doubt about it. I'm just going to give you one example, even though I'm going to warn you right now that this isn't the fault of the State Property Fund, of another institution, or something like that, it's Kiyutlospecs. So I asked my question, and I finally got the answer. The whole neighborhood Kuchma took into his own fund, do you know how much money was paid for it? Guess what, voters. You'll never get it in your head. For 12 thousand 963 bracelets. That's $2.5,000 a whole quarter. That's the privatization we have in Ukraine. I am convinced that this bill should be adopted in the first reading, and there are many Achilles ’ fifths in it. Indeed, it is not only the Supreme Council that should be entrusted. We don't have a control mechanism. That's why I think the three branches of power should still be in control. We vote for him in the first reading, and the second one needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u107	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, please. To prepare Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear fellow national MPs, the honourable citizens of Ukraine are very much on the subject and very late, unfortunately, we want to adopt this Law. Valentina Petrovna, who reported from this rostrum today is in three iposas. Valentina Petrovna is a national deputy, she's the head of the privatisation control commission, and she's privatizing. I mean, he's controlling himself. I think if she takes the closing word, she'll say she's refusing it now, because it's not constitutional. I hope for her honest position. Because no one has ever managed to control themselves. And it's because I offered this man an honest and decent position, that's what I'm telling her from this rostrum. Dear friends, surely we must accept the Law, and we are too late to accept it, but so am I. And other people demanded that we do a thorough inventory of all the property that's in the state. This needs to be done by the government, along with the state property fund, I emphasize all the property. That was the main task of the heads of state administration. No one's ever done that before. Now we need to make an estimate of all privatized property at least 30%, of all privatized property at a price. And stop talking about some sort of reprisals that will go beyond the law. For the study of the judicial system shows that many decisions have been made to order. And I've come to the conclusion that without a record of court decisions, we can't do anything either. Now for a specific offer. It was suggested that the State Property Fund be accountable to the Supreme Council and supervised to the President and the Supreme Council, and that the administration also be subordinated to the government of Ukraine. This must be written down. That's my second reading proposal. The other one. The Fund's tasks in Article 3 must be recorded first: efficient property management and state-owned parts of this property. I've just given you a call for the Kremenchuck factory, where illegally these so-called foreign investors have increased their fate, and the whole factory today is under the control of Tatarstan and the Russian Federation. It's our factory, and there's all the evidence, I gave it to you. And please take urgent measures. I've been addressing you as head of the Holding Foundation, and Sitrinded has received half a hundred vessels. And what.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u109	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Mironka Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u110	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Calinchuk, People's Party faction, Rest. Honourable National Deputies, the issue of the need for a legal settlement of the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund and the definition of its powers are not new. During the 14 years of the Fund’s activities, history has recorded several attempts by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to develop and enact legislation. But all these powers proved to be ineffective. The Fund’s activities to date are outside the legislative field. The Fund continues to operate on the basis of a temporary situation that is already seriously outdated and on the basis of the separate rules contained in privatization laws. Members of the People’s Party feel that the majority of the privatization problems that have been discussed in recent times are directly related to the absence of the National Property Fund Act. It is known that the fund was designed to ensure proper legal regulation of the privatization process and the administration of state ownership. First of all, the corporate rights of the State were envisaged that the fund would decide to privatize state-owned enterprises on the basis of buyers' applications and its own decision. This does not limit the authority of the fund in the selection of privatization objects among the unannounced. The only limit is the need to agree on privatization plans, especially important sites with the Cabinet of Ministers. But unfortunately, it's all out of the law. Although in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution, privatization in the country is done solely on the basis of law. Clearly, the privatization process is extremely politically sensitive. The absence of the Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine and the full legal uncertainty of the powers of ministries, departments, administrations, prosecutors cause a strong informal influence on the fund, deprives the foundation of the necessary transparency and publicity. Such a condition cannot continue. The legal basis for the activities of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, its status, functions, mandate and order of implementation require legislative settlement. This is particularly true of the organizational structure of the fund, the head status of the fund, subordination and accountability, internal decision-making procedures, external control mechanisms, and fund financing. The proposed bill is designed to solve these problems. In this regard, according to the faction of the People’s Party, it may be based on comments and suggestions made by the national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u111	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Get ready, Shishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u112	Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Honourable People's Deputies, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected compatriots. I could make a number of proposals, but in particular it would make sense for paragraph 13 to be the second to complement the words “that guarantee of the return of state property privatized with the violation of the law to state property”. There are other proposals. In particular, in my view, the Chairman of the Fund should have the status of Minister, since the functions of the Fund are enormous. But what bothered me was the Communist MP Masenko Aleksandra Nikolaevich. First of all, you're asked, Valentina Petrovna, why aren't you in charge of the People's Deputies, breaking the law? And you explain, "When we adopt the law, stop breaking the law." That's a strange position. Secondly, an interesting position and Our Ukraine, which supports Yushchenko very openly. [[connect here]] They say that the role of the President in this bill must be strengthened. What, then, about the constitutional reform you advocated? So you were lying then? But constitutional reform is necessary! The position of the President must be weakened, the responsibility of the Government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, must be strengthened. Nobody's answering right now. So you need this irresponsibility to rob people? Third. I might ask, "Well, why are you so obstinate about privatization?" Why, in article one, I continued to offer Valentina Petrovna a clear orientation for the Fund to become a State Property Fund that ensures the interests of the State. It continues to be a sales fund. I insist, I insist in the future, in the future, that no law should be passed at this time, that the functions of effective use of State property, the development of the State sector in the strategic sectors of the economy, be put first in place for the benefit of the people. This benefit has been confirmed in both Italy and France, and in Britain, in many other countries. What's stopping? Why do we always have policies of the Socialist Party and all other right parties for privatization? Probably because it's a robbery. That's probably why. Which is exactly what steals is all about. They don't want to stop this theft. I insist that if you have a conscience, if you have a mind, stop the privatization, act as a host fund to protect the interests of the State, the people, the economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u113	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the name wasn't called. Please calm down. Let's call it last name. Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u114	Sergey Zezko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Chairman, Reverend Valentina Petrovna, National MPs. The adoption of the National Property Fund Act will provide a perfect and fundamental legislative framework for the privatization of state policy in Ukraine in the area of property reform. That's what I want to make a few wishes about. According to article 1, paragraph 2, of the project, it is envisaged that the State Property Fund of Ukraine is accountable and controlled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In this regard, attention should be paid to the following. This formula does not cover the relationship between the State Property Fund and the President of Ukraine. Meanwhile, the head of state, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, appoints and releases a fund manager who is a form of control over its activities. The exercise by the President of Ukraine of control over the State Property Fund also comes from the power of the President as a guarantor of human rights and freedoms and a citizen. By supporting the subordination of the Ukrainian State Property Fund of the Cabinet of Ministers for State Property Administration, which comes out of article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, we consider such a subordination to be questionable on matters of privatization. This is due to the fact that privatization of state property is carried out under separate procedures that are specifically defined by privatization laws. Under these laws the State Property Privatization Fund is working with the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a large extent. In connection with this proposal, article 1 of the project will be presented in this format. The Ukrainian State Property Fund is accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and under the control of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian State Property Fund for Governmental Property Administration is subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to article 3, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, it is determined that the alienation of property is in municipal property, is regulated by the provision of this law and other privatization laws, and is carried out by the local self-government body. In this regard, we suggest that the draft be supplemented by a new article to identify the relationship between the State Property Fund and its local authorities and local governments. Since the question of the temporary performance of the duties of officials appointed under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, either the President of Ukraine or the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the request of the President, is defined by a special law, we propose that the second paragraph of the second section of the second article be laid down in the following wording: "To the appointment of the Head of the Fund, the President of Ukraine or the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the temporary performance of the duties of officials appointed under the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko, Democratic Ukraine's MP group, is invited to speak. John the Rabbit will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u116	Thank you. Nightshenko, 160 constituency, election block Volodymyr Litvina. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I once told you that you are the guarantor of the Supreme Council's rulings, and I did not fail because the fund is operating today on the basis of a Supreme Council decree that approved the temporary position in 1992. What power in our decrees! The Fund is a higher body of executive authority with special powers. And I would like to support previous speakers that he should not be a special body just for privatization, but now he has to be subject and reprivatization. He must be responsible for the efficient use of property. And for this, as it is written: a register of all government property, regardless of which its successor is said to be fate; and daily work with the principals of the funds. These are ministries, departments. And you have to work with them without denying or creating any kind of coalition that would make it difficult to rent or concession state property. And we have to be responsible for making the government's annual income from the efficient use of state property. In the very position of the fund, the fund approves the statutes of the companies created in the privatization process. I don't know what their function would be. Are they going to be state-owned enterprises in the form of farms? Will these be non-state structures? It needs to be clarified, because the higher authority of executive power, and without it, in accordance with the laws on agriculture, can be the founder, I emphasize, of a state-owned enterprise. Next. I asked the foundation twice for their requests to help me figure out the fate of privatization, such as the Mechanic Plant in Mid-Bud, a mechanical plant in the town of Krolevec, a state-owned, allied enterprise in Putovl. I asked simple questions -- who bought, what social obligations, how they were implemented, what wages, how many jobs. Unfortunately, I did not get the answers. Another issue of privatization cases. I support the reporter, and I think we need to write down to get the plaintiff to speak only to the privatization party, and to have matters dealt with only at the location. We don't go after six hundred courts, and when the performers come, they really do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u118	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! The law should be adopted, but it could be a victim of failure by many ministers and other officials of the Constitution of Ukraine. Many national MPs do not want to vote in favour of a whole series of laws until the compatriots make up the powers of Ukraine’s national deputies. And I'll tell you that these are perfectly fair requirements. I was in this situation when I became Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources. But I didn't touch the MP's mandate, so I put it down. And I just don't understand people who don't have a mandate. I want to talk to them. People are good, don't discredit the Ukrainian state, don't discredit the President. I want you to comply with these constitutions and establish your parliamentary powers. Now for the bill. If we are to judge strictly the activities of the Property Fund today, we should say that its activity has been illegal for many years. So, honourable national MPs, there's nothing to be ashamed of today that we've had, not privatization, but property theft, because a small group of people have concentrated billions, billions of dollars in their hands. Because the second part of the 19th article of the Constitution tells us that the authorities of the State and the local authorities, their officials, are obliged to act only on the basis, within the limits of authority, and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. So if there is no law, there is no legitimacy. And I urge you to consider this very requirement of the Constitution, and we need to adopt this bill. Another problem is that it is not possible to determine the position of the State Property Fund in the system of government authorities. Some say he should be under the authority of the President, while others say he should not be under control. From my point of view, he should not be under the control of the President, because the appointment of the chairman of the foundation does not mean that he should be in charge of the fund. So you just have to understand the principle of power distribution. He should be in charge of the Cabinet of Ministers, not the President. We need to release the President today from his inequitable functions. He has to make strategic decisions, he has to act as the guarantor of the Constitution today, he has to carry out foreign policy today. Now, if we understand the Constitution deeply, we will understand the principle of the distribution of power, we will not hang on the President's shoulders the wrong functions. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u119	Yes. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a minute. He will invite the national deputies into the session room so that we can make a positive decision. For the reasons of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u120	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to support this draft law for what reasons? First, the Act was adopted for privatization when there was nothing to privatize, because everything had already been disrupted. Therefore, with this ideology, the Act must be passed, the Ideology Act proposed by the Communists, in order to protect State property and the efficiency of the use of property. Second, Vladimir Mihajlovich, a strange thing in general, because the Law violates practically the Constitution and transforms the body under the control of the Supreme Council into an executive body. So this actually turns into an oligarch distribution club just among very rich people. And this law, it will bring enormous damage to the remnants of property we have today. Therefore, we propose to review the ideology of this Act and to establish property of a State-wide indivisible on the basis of which
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u121	Yes. Yuri Karmazin and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is likely to continue to reject the Law as it was in the days of Kuchma. All changes and additions that can be given can be made to the second reading. And I'm going to make these proposals and I'm going to make and let us now adopt the Law and then we're going to demand from the Holding Fund, which is going to be the controlling and accountable Supreme Council of Ukraine, and where we're going to have the head of the Privatization Supervisory Board, who will control this, we're going to demand the implementation of this Law. On the other hand, there is no law, and they are operating today according to a position approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is convenient for someone. And now we see where it benefits. This leads to the placement of these government particles, pies, and all that remains in the state. Thank you. I ask you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u123	Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, microphone, please. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u124	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Of course, the law should be adopted in the first reading, but I have a very important warning about article 1. It is essential that the second paragraph states that the State Property Fund is accountable and controlled only by the Supreme Council. Because the State Property Fund is the steward of the nation’s property, the property of the Ukrainian people. The Supreme Council is a representative of the people. And if there's a subordination of the Cabinet of Ministers, then really the Supreme Council will lose control of the State Property Fund. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party calls for this formulation to be done in the first article. Today, this law must be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u125	So I realized that Valentina Petrovna agreed with the proposal she made. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the basis of the draft law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7364]] Please vote. [[12:57:03]] For 276 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -85; Communists -0; "Regions of Ukraine" -17; People's Party -34; Block Timoshenko -26; SPU -27; Ukrainian People's Party -23; SDPU -0; "Democratic Ukraine" -20; "Only Ukraine" -18; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - Ukraine - 12, Democratic Initiatives -0, Postfraction -14. From the procedure? Please proceed with the procedure. So I want to go back now. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u126	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have just witnessed to you that the head of the Property Fund of the Supreme Council stated that if this law is passed, it is in charge. I'd like her to come out to the rostrum and announce her credentials now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u127	Samolik, please. May I have your attention, Your Honor? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. We met with this, you know, covert case in the Supreme Council yesterday. When Ukraine adopted the Law to Help Mothers Single, Health Minister Polishchuk confused that he was sitting there, not as head of the Committee on Children, Women, and Health, but as minister of health. And he started speaking out on the wrong page. It's Kirilenko who has to report it, Pauline and all that. In order for this to not happen to Valentina Petrovna, we need her to be honest, if she's a socialist really, come out and give her authority. I think that's the right thing to do, honestly. Stop making promises to our people. Of course, you like sitting at two troughs. Of course I like it, even about three. It's just incompatible control and sales. It's not compatible stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u129	Mikhailo Melniczuk and enough, dear colleagues. And we'll work now. We have one more question to settle. Calm down, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u130	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear friends, there has just been a bill in the hall that we have been waiting for and not just us. The matter of the State Property Fund is still settled. At the legislative level and the MPs, 276 said that such a law was necessary. And from this point of view, which was the criticism of the Socialist Party faction, I'd like to answer the following: let's show you who's going and what's taking place in society. At least the Socialist Party of Ukraine has proved to both the Ukrainian people and the voters that we are consistent in our actions. And what we were going to say is this: Dear friends, let's stop some controversy, let's really move on to the rebuilding of our nation, because the people are waiting for this, not our arguments with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have some kind of discrepancy here in the session hall when we voted in favour of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning taxpayers. So in order to make peace, we agreed to do so -- to propose to you to put to the vote this way: who is responsible for going back to the question of voting on the Law that we passed? So that's the kind of cut that's going to ask the question. Who is it to go back to the question of voting on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Taxpayers' Laws? [[Registration number 7413-d]] [[13:01:54]] For 205 The decision is not taken. So the law works. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 79, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 27, National Party - 8, Block Timoshenko - 30, SPU - 12, Ukrainian People's Party - 24, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 7, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 6, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 12. Dear colleagues, let's make sure that we don't have any contradictions, that under any circumstances, who doesn't press and prove that we have to accept. We will continue to comply only with the regulations, no matter which side of the proposal comes from the MPs, from the government, or from a particular faction, from groups. All of it. Let's move on to the speeches of the MPs at the Vulnerable. Please sign up, yes. People's deputies please sign up. So, I would like to confirm, honourable people's deputies, that the law that we voted on is acting after the President of Ukraine's signature. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs who wrote it down, please. Vladimir Leschchenko, Communist faction, prepare Puzakov. Dear colleagues, for 60 minutes we'll be performing in different ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u132	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! After the destruction of the Soviet Socialist Union in 1991, the people of Ukraine suffer especially. Because it was necessary for the authorities to be able to bring a rich country to such a state on a paradise earth so that the vast majority of mankind would live in poverty. Leonidas the First brought down everything that he had. He grabbed something, then ran away to parliament, and with a smart look, he gives a philosophical interview instead of being responsible for what he did. Leonidas the Second, after 10 years of his rule, became a state, - look, until Ukraine is gone. Now he's also breaking his head to avoid responsibility. Kuchmin’s son, who had recently replaced his father, and earlier, along with the two Leonides, had ruined the economy of a great nation, also made a wise appearance and promised a paradise on the brink. There are different motorists, nationalists, gangsters, socialists, and they think they're doing politics right now. Let them rest. They're just a bunch of foreign politics. The bourgeois government of nationalists and socialists is still chasing foam and blowing bubbles. The Prime Minister says, for example, that 3,000 enterprises will be reprivatized, the cumin son 30, and his godfather made a sensational statement that none. They are now paying off slightly higher wages, pensions for populist reasons. Fellowships, social benefits that have been insolently taken away by prices. It seems that they do not understand where the money is coming from, for the development of specific production is not taken. Do they really think that money is only taken in banks? This is why prices and tariffs are rising rapidly. And the footage is how they pick it up: the governor was caught on the street, or the head of the railing or, there, the governor. Now, from the country uncles at the meeting, he said to me, with this sort of Ukrainian humor, "Some of today's seniors who will grow up to the level of manager of a small business or organization will write in their autobiography, "He worked as a minister when he was young." Doesn't the former cosmopolitan, later Esdek official, and now the head of the Presidential Office understand that? I'm sure he understands because he was taught well in Soviet times. Then on whose order and scenario does he engage in subversive work? I think the people of Ukraine will soon ask about all this in them when they come to grips with the orange mist and take power in their hands, to which I call upon the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u133	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. He'll be followed by Phydenko Stanislaw.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u134	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Over the years of independence from every new president, we hear all about the building of civil society. It is evident that we will not soon build it. They would have to think about why we've been building this society for so long. Because the presidents of Ukraine do not have the habit of leading to the logical conclusion of their promises. During the pre-election promises, such sweet words flow down the river from the mouth of the candidates to the presidents! And when he comes to power, he forgets everything. In every speech today’s President Yushchenko guaranteed the free use of Russian, even stressed the establishment of a list of locations in which Russian will be used alongside the national language, that children will learn the language that their parents will choose. I wish the President's words would become a reality. I completely understand that Ukrainian is a national language, and that's how it should be. But what can be done to those who have come for various reasons, whether casual or temporary, from other countries where children have learned Russian? And in Kirovgrad these two months couldn't learn for the reason that their father couldn't get them into school, because in the district center of just two schools, there are several classes of Russian speaking. Is this a normal thing? This was the case when, for example, there were half schools with Russian and half schools with Ukrainian languages. I'd like to remind some gentlemen of the factions of our Ukraine and the socialist. Instead of weeping about the bitter fate of the Ukrainian language, we should contribute to its development. At the same time, remember the other languages. Why do you blame the Russian language for allegedly destroying Ukrainian book publishing, citing that out of 20 books in Ukraine are printed in only 1 Ukrainian and 12 Russian. Did the Russian language destroy the film? Remember the wills you were watching on TV from the Longen Studio or the movie in Russian? So, dear colleagues, you should remember that the more people’s welfare increases, their rights are protected, their language is also protected, the sooner people feel proud of their homeland and their desire to use its basic language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u135	Stanislaw Phydenko, a faction of Communists. Prepare Yuri the Ripper.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u136	Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. First of all, I want to do a little bit of information that the citizens of the city of Zorinsk Lugansk district, as a sign of protest, which today was actually talked about from the rostrum, have covered the Lugansk-Donetsk route against the abuse of them today. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Today, I am forced to go to the parliamentary rostrum for the second time to draw the attention of the national MPs, the electorate and especially the government of Ukraine to the major problems of our state, I think. It's about putting order around the question of the implementation of the Ukrainian law on mother heroin. More than a month ago, I was breaking this question from this rostrum. The effect, you have to say, "great." I have received many answers from the vice-premier, ministers of the President's apparatus. Yet the matter of the place, in my view, does not move. Stormy waves of concern for the people rolled between the three white palaces of state power on cave hills. Yet they did not reach the periphery at all. Again, I remind you of the point. A year ago the Supreme Council passed the law. [[on the establishment of the Honorable Mother Heroin]] More than 100 days later, the President issued a decree setting out the basis for the award of that title, setting out the procedure for presenting the honorary title. All of this was quickly reported to me by high - ranking government officials. In their view, the problem is settled by valid legislation. In addition, it has been reported that as many as 20 multi-child mothers of those who gave birth to five or more children were already rewarded after the adoption of the Honorary Mother Heroin Act. At the same time, the government has never developed a list of benefits for women who are worthy of this honor, without whom the mother-hero status is worthless. We need to speed up Kabmin's amendment to article 1 of the Law on Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine and define the specific order of granting a one-time national monetary reward to women who are worthy of an honorary title. To put an end to the delay in this important matter, I ask on behalf of many women of Volina who have already given birth to such numbers and even more children. In particular, I demand this today on behalf of a few dozen women in the village of Birka, in the region of Ljubljana, who have 10-15 children and about 50 women from this village, who have given birth to five or more children. Remember, each of us had a mother, so let's be grateful for that. Please repeat this question as a request to the head of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u137	Yuri Orobec, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u138	Honorable MP! Dear voters! As an MP in Kiev, I must address you with words of great concern for the fate of Kiev. Sadly, since the beginning of the new power, power has not changed in Kiev. It's in the old hands of Leonidas Kuchma. And unfortunately, all the problems in Kiev are getting long. The first big problem is land. The land was distributed to the right and to the left, starting with the members of the Central Electoral Commission, putting forward future improper voting in the Central Electoral Commission, ending with the national deputies who were in favour of corrupt power. Yet, land issues are becoming more and more acute. But they don't make up their minds. The president declared that he was replacing all the heads of the district administrations, but this had not yet taken place and that the Chinese would arrive at 9:30 a.m. at the Shevchenkov Reservoir, whose head regularly breaks the session of his council. Because she has to betray such a head. And last but not least, in my 60th constituency, the leader of the election headquarters on the Podoli Victor Yushchenka-Glavatenko won. He won Mokhovkov, the leader of Kiev. And Golovatenko has already won 11 courts, and the court has decided that he will definitely be appointed as a deputy. However, under the pressure of the Kyiv government, this did not happen personally to Omelchenka. It is not enough that members of the territorial commission ridicule and impugn the execution of a court’s decision. An open criminal case against members of the commission and members of the commission do not appear before the court. I personally prepared a statement to the President of Ukraine that he, as a guarantor of the Constitution, had influenced this situation, intervened because of the violation of election rights, constitutional rights, the right to choose and to be elected. This is fundamental to our Ukrainian democracy. I'm referring to the fact that in this way, the Kiev City Authority in 1998-2000 faked my election when I personally won a lot of times in 221 districts. So I am addressing the President of Ukraine as a guarantor to influence and solve this problem at last. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u139	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine. Instead of Hades Vernighor getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u140	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. I'm very sorry that there's no person in this room that I'm going to appeal to right now, and this is the National Deputy of Ukraine, former President of Ukraine Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk. I'm still under the impression of former President Leonid Makarovich today. And in order not to respond to some statements made by our former honourable President, I cannot. Do you imagine the distinguished voters, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, making a similar statement by the President of the already modern Czech Republic, Czechoslovakia, of the former Vaclov Havel? Of course not. Today, this man has become a symbol and pride of the Czechs. And today, when we Ukrainians listen to this speech by Leonid Krawczuk, it becomes embarrassing and sad that Ukraine had such a president. When the president of Ukraine, Leonid Krawczuk, openly defends the criminal and political clans and defends them, they are said to be untouchable. I understand why, and each one of us understands why this is the situation in our country. Because it is this President, this man, a former party partner of the Central Committee of the Party, and now the SDPU-Clan-Criminal-Political-Clan, has begun this process of destruction and dissolution of the Ukrainian state. I'm often told that appeals are made that 18,000, you see, repressive citizens of Ukraine. It's Kravczuk, Medvedczuk and all this company that's been running those, many of the people they're mourning about today. She was directing them to break the law. And I would also like to tell the honourable Mr. President. Often, he once said that he was building a Ukrainian state, and I, Jaroslav Kenzior, didn't build a doghouse. And this, like a primitive parrot, repeats the same man as him, Igor Shurma. Indeed, Mr. President, I did not build a booth, for it is difficult to build for a deputy's salary. After all, I don't have to keep a dog for the booth, because I don't have any supplies. And for the money you've robbed, you've already acquired such funds that today the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs can't close down, find everything. So if such a president were in another state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u141	Leonid Vernigore, Socialist faction. Get ready to pull the trigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u142	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, radio listeners. Socialists in Parliament consistently choose the right to a decent life, an excess of the lives of pensioners. Unfortunately, the concept of social policy in our country is that it's such a socio-economic category, a minimum of living. Listen: The minimum of living. Demeaning both by word of mouth and, by the way, by size. Isn't it time to replace it with at least a level of living or a value if we don't find ourselves in danger of taking a word like the standard. This is true of pensioners who have granted young people the right to work and a better life. Pensioners who are now children of war. It turns out that they started their lives, that is, with the same damn living minimum, they end it. Let's get out of here! Who are we dealing with? To whom do we thank for this ingratitude? People want a just pension, a clear pattern of her assignments. In my opinion, everyone who has a minimum job, let's say 20 and 25 respectively, should have a 50 percent retirement in the state. The same person who has a minimum of one year may have a pension of 75 percent of the average salary in Ukraine. And you don't have to worry about everyone wanting to retire in 75, and your internship just for one year more. So be it. Because that's the only way to stimulate the release of retired people in their jobs to free them, to fill them in with young people. Such a proposal does not affect the Pension Reform Act. Let those who have a large salary today accumulate insurance contributions for a higher pension. My proposal does not apply to the special pensions that people receive today. But the state part of the pension to those who have given their whole lives to people, to the state, should be clearly not a living minimum, because, according to the minimum, a person cannot conduct himself with dignity today. Why do people not resent her retirement when she was 132? Because of this pension, it was worth every month to buy, say, a bicycle, a fufuik, a rubber boot, enough bread and bread. So I think that today half of the average pension salary and 75 percent of the higher-age pension just solves the state-run pension problem for all of us who are going to fail today, we're going to say that in this unfortunate minimum of living. Today is the time to give back, to give back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u143	Thank you. Oleg Tagnibok, non-factional. Prepare Vladimir Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u144	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, head of the All-U.S. Freedom Union. Respectable Society, Honorable Radio Hearers! Unfortunately, today the Ukrainians, as the nation's first nation, as a national majority in our country, need protection at the 14th year of independence. Thus, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union developed, drawing on the thoughts of all Ukraine, conducting various consultations, the Ukrainian Protection Program. That program is based on the following. First. We believe that today's authorities are obliged to address various international institutions in order to recognize the genocide of Ukrainians as a crime against humanity: famines of 21-22, 33-34, 46-47 years of age, corrupting and violent collectiveization, a few waves of physical destruction of Ukrainian elites, forced export of Ukrainians to foreign lands, physical destruction of civilian populations during the war period, language, cultural exodus of the nation, the Chernobyl disaster. We believe that we need to demand compensation for repressives or members of their families on an appropriate scale. We believe that the authorities today must demand of the successor of the Soviet Union of the Russian Federation an official apology and compensation for genocide and damage to the Ukrainian people. We believe that criminals who have destroyed the Ukrainian nation should be punished for creating a special investigative structure that would search for the executions of the Ukrainian people around the world and sue the Hague tribunal. The next item is to recognize UN - UPA soldiers as participants in World War II. To grant these veterans benefits at the same level as the veterans of the Soviet Army and to compensate for the underprivileged for 14 years of independence, to spread the truth about the UN - UPA, to establish a national museum of Ukrainian victory, to fight for independence in the twentieth century, to introduce a special course in the history of the UN - UPA in educational institutions. Adopt a new law on national language. No talk of bilinguality in Ukraine. To regulate the use of Ukrainian in the media in proportion to the number of Ukrainians, that is, not less than 80 percent of the language. Cancel taxes on Ukrainian books, audio, video production for a term of five years, protest less hours of teaching Ukrainian in schools and universities, introduce a mandatory exam of Ukrainian language for civil servants and candidates for election positions. Ban the activities of the media, which degrade the national dignity of Ukrainians and spread disinformation, promote anti-Ukrainian propaganda, create, at last, a national information space, draw public officials, ensure the proportional representation of Ukrainians in all authorities, return the Count to “nationality”, create the conditions for the return of 7 million Ukrainian workers to the Fatherland, ensure the state protection of Ukrainians abroad. There are no agreements in the EP. Today, Ukrainians need protection. Let's protect them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u145	Vladimir Petrenko, a faction of Communists, has the word to prepare for Haydash.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u146	Petrenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Sustina. Address of the village of Freedom of the Burin district of Sumu district. To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich, deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Honourable Head and deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, writing you a letter made the life we now live. Rural land for 10,000 225 hectares. Of these, 7 thousand 600 hectares of reli is being processed. There are two farms in the village, 14 farms, a departmental hospital that was built and opened in 2003, three gardens, two schools, a first-level sugar plant that was not working and sold and cut out at the Flaris Society, 450 inhabitants of the village were banished to the streets. There are 3,000 inhabitants of the village council. The budget for the village council is $200,000. All companies located in the tax area pay correctly, but the budget deficit amounts to 45,000 dollars. Because 60 percent of the rural council’s land tax is on the budget, by 2002, 100 percent had arrived. And for all the other taxes, 25 percent. The cost of maintaining a budget structure in the rural council is lacking. True, the State Budget grants, but that is very little. If you take one hospital, at the very small cost of the rural council budget, it will cost 2,000,250,000 dollars out of 340 dollars. So how can you talk about repairing roads or gassing villages? On behalf of the citizens of the village, we ask you to review the percentage of funds coming to the local self-government authorities, which would be 65-75 percent to the rural council budgets. If you do so, all the rural communities of Ukraine will be very grateful. On behalf of the village head of the community, Alexander Obróc, the village head Please consider this request to the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mihajlovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u147	The word is given by Istvan Haydosh, a faction of the Socialist Party. After him, Paulakova and Korsh pass the word to Boris Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Istvan Hydos, electoral district number 72, SPI faction. At present, an active process is under way to improve the current drafting of the Ukrainian Act on National Minorities in Ukraine. This work was started three years ago when a new draft law was introduced into Parliament. During this time, the bill was supported by participants in numerous public discussions. Taking into account that the draft law is essentially fully based on the European standard in this area in the main part of the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, the Lunar Recommendations, the PARE Recommendation 12.01 of the Council of Europe was also supported by experts from the Council of Europe. The bill was not overlooked and my voters, who supported our bill by more than 20,000 signatures last year. As a result of such a broad discussion, the bill has already moved 3 editions. Like any document, this bill is not ideal, but for adoption in the first reading it certainly deserves, because, among other things, it violates the problem of ex-territorial national and cultural autonomy as a form of self-organization of national minorities, it contains safeguards for the use of languages of national minorities in places of compact residence. It is also possible for national minorities to receive foreign money. In fact, the need for its acceptance is related to the problem of non - recognition in Ukraine of Russian nationality, since it contains clear indications that a group of persons with different linguistic and cultural characteristics is a national minority. In this, it would seem agreed upon at all levels of the legislative process there are some difficulties. Recently, I received a government conclusion, which was unexpectedly denied by the authors of the above - mentioned human rights and freedoms bills. It is also surprising that the denials were caused by the same rules of the bill, which are virtually duplicated in the text of the above-mentioned documents by the Council of Europe. In view of the foregoing, I feel that it is necessary not to delay the adoption of the law, for we will be able to work out the issues before reading them. Also, the need for a return to the language issue has long come to an end in order to write out conditions for the use of languages of national minorities in the work of local authorities and self - government. In the context of the protection of the rights of national minorities, I hope and in support of the government's proposed additions to the draft Territorial Regulation Act. National minorities urgently need to define the notion of "a place of compact residence of a national minority", as well as guarantees that there is no artificial division of ethnic areas between different areas. There is also a need to make it possible to unite ethnic communities in one area. At the same time, we cannot allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u149	Please, Boris Oilynik, instead of Polack and Korja, he has six minutes. Drogancs convey the word Mihovich, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u150	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! It seems that someone is very cleverly switching the attention of society from really acute problems in a discussion like who, when and what fell out of it. In fact, if it affects a healthy fall, it is not from a wheelchair but from a wheelchair. In the meantime, we're in danger if we do. Not a fall, but a rather obvious slip into the ditches, grown with the grass of historical oblivion. I'm not going to appeal to today's authorities who are still thinking about what they inherited from yesterday, although many feel that not everyone today is very interested in resonating. Who would believe that two thugs, without a command or an order, decided to poison the original Verdew? So some kind of force brings out the punishment of the buyers and the murderers and Alexander and the same Verduk. The suicide of Kirk and less well - known officials was written off. For a long time, they have been searching for the Cats of Gongadze, long ago declaring their names. But these things are visible and loud. And they are not very perceptive, yet they are no less deceitful, devouring society from within. As a result of the humanitarian sighs, the Kyiv Museum almost quietly disappeared. Blessings of the Kyiv Mountains: Szczecavica, Horivec, and legendary festivities such as Pottery, Cosumyaki, Degtirovci, are already depraved by the proto - Slav shrines and garages of the new Ukrainians. They really aim at the root system, where there is no primary or secondary system, because everything is large and the passport from which they have erased as a relic of totalitarian nationalism, and a segmented church, but in Orthodox itself there are four sectors and one variant of future regionalization, which is clearly considered by the federalization. More recently, there has been a robbery, not of an age, but of the oldest in Europe’s Lviv central historical history archive, with more than 120 million documents of the 12th - 20th century stolen unique documents of our historical memory. The director of the Lviv Department of the Institute of Ukrainian Archaeology and Originology, Jaroslav Dashkevich, says that this is, quote: "The massive destruction of the national spiritual values of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. These are not merely thefts, but criminal destruction of values that will never again be returned to the archives. And it's kind of like, first of all, they've taken the order or the knowledge of the case. Second, there was a specialist who knows the topography of the shelter." The quote has been completed. So who are these customers and this specialist? And who is covering them now? They steal, not dollars, bracelets, and factories, but our national memory. We need to review the registers of all the houses and fight on the outside until we've been ripped apart. We're just sighing, he said, bringing the Ukrainians to the least protected minority. Well, it looks like we're about to go to the reservation ourselves when we're looking at an American model of a few Aborigines on the human eye in Parliament. And it's really spreading, if we're going to continue to look for secret enemies just outside of the country, and not get bored, and finally, as the title nation should be, we're going to take control of the government and the state and our own fate in a way that doesn't bend, and we're not looking back, because we're not bought on our own, and we're not sold yet. All of this and all that, I'm going to do as an MP's request. And the sooner, the better, we'll pay attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u151	Thank you, Boris Illich. The word is John Mihovich, a faction of Communists. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, voters. Humanity continues to be influenced by the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. This Jubilee has special meaning for my countrymen, since only after the liberation of the Red Army has there been a real opportunity to realize their original aspirations for which the Communists and other progressive forces fought. On June 29, 1945, an agreement was signed in Moscow between the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia on the reunification of the Podkarpathian Russians, the Carpathian Ukraine, and the mother country. So we're the day before another anniversary. In the Soviet era, the newly created area became highly developed. Today it's in ruins. By no chance do some 30,000 countries of hardworking, law - abiding people become engrossed in the world in their search for bread. The social and political situation has recently been exacerbated by Kiev's campaign to support administrative and territorial reform. The creation of a so-called Carpathian territorial manufacturing complex with a centre in Lviv is regarded as an unscrupulous attempt to eliminate its region, which has different geographical, natural, economic, ethnic, sociocultural, historical and, in the end, mental characteristics. My countrymen's fears have been fueled by the fraudulent expansion of the Carpathians in recent years, political, resource, ideological, religious, human beings masked by market transformations, Euro-integration aspirations, national-state slogans. What's really going on? For example, for energy, carnations pay intermediaries twice as much as the surrounding regions. For oil, gas, electricity, transportation, customs, and other routes, billions of dollars flow from us to Lviv and Kiev. The drug addicts are denied grants, and small, pitiful subsidies are given. At the same time, in any form of self-protection, they impose political labels, blackmail, discrimination, and, in particular, meaningfully discredited Russians, restricted national minorities, suppressed civil rights and freedoms. Thus, for days, representatives of 14 civil and political associations have appealed to the Supreme Council, the President and the Government, condemning attempts to eliminate the Zakartat region and to join the so-called Zacarpathian region. They consider it premature to change the administrative and territorial system, and they demand that the local referendum be declared in 1991. Otherwise they will have to turn to the world’s progressive community for help. Listen to their voice, powerful men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u153	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u154	Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina, Volodymyr Yavorowski Dear colleagues, dear voters. I was lifted up in this rostrum by the deep resentment and deep disappointment experienced yesterday in this hall. If I used to joke with Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk in this way: when he said, we have what we have, I always asked him -- the explanation, and where was the rest? What I heard yesterday, again, hurt me deeply as a Ukrainian. Because, even though I didn't vote for Leonid Makarovich, I didn't vote for Leonid Danilovich, but whatever it is, both of them were my presidents, because I belong to this people. I'd like to have a calm discussion with Leonid Makarovitch and tell him this: he said yesterday that if he knew that Ukraine was going to be in this situation today, that is, if it were Majdan and other authorities, he would never have signed the White Collegiate Agreements. Leonid Makarovich, don't be so heroic! You had to sign the White Collegiate Agreements. If you hadn't signed them, the people would have signed them. In what way? That's different. The other one. You're already criticizing Yushchenka. I'm not Yashchenka's apologist, and I may still be writing open letters to Yashchenko. I'm completely free of Yashchenk and, believe me, I'm independent of him. But what I'm saying is, Leonide Makarovich, in four years of your reign, you've led Ukraine to a state where after you basically won the election of a free party official, a cosno-linguistic, unscrupulous, unscrupulous, unscrupulous, if you want, which went through this political code for 10 years, and you haven't learned anything. It came to the power of Kuchma on your soil. And you seemed to be the first president to be the moral authority of the nation. You're lying under Kuchma. He hanged your medals and medals, and you danced your grandmother's pole around him. Your fault, too, is that for 10 years we have been so ruled that in 10 years, Ukraine has been lowered to the very bottom that we are being watched today, looked at at at least Midan as the ghetto where the Papuans live, where they can kill a journalist and eventually not find where they can record the President or anything like that. I want to tell you, Leonid Makarovich, that 18 thousand people have been repressed. And you know that Kuchma fired all your officials who were, and there were several times as many?Oh, my God! Because, Leonid Makarovich, you're the first president -- think about it. And remember that people come into politics with a beautiful future and leave it with a terrible past. You may belong to such people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u155	Viacheslav Anisimov, a faction of Communists. He's going to be followed. Justice has given the word to Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u156	Anisimov, Communist faction, 30 constituency, Dneprodj yinsk. Respectable radios, respected Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! I would like to thank the people's deputies who supported the Communist faction's non-admission initiative on the second reading of the draft Labour Code. I have been repeatedly approached by representatives of the working groups of the Dnepropetrova enterprises, demanding that the bill be not passed. As we can see, as long as we can do it. As has been said on several occasions from the Supreme Council's rostrum, such a bill seriously violates the rights of several million employees in our country. Women, minors and pre-retirement workers will be particularly affected. If the bill is not amended accordingly, which prevents the rights of workers from being subjected to employment, dismissal, compensation for damage caused at work and those referred to above, we, the communists, will again take all measures to prevent the second reading of the draconian bill. In this regard, I would like to call upon all workers to exert constant pressure on the leadership of trade union organizations in order to force them to become more involved in the work to finalize the Labour Code and to defend your rights, comrades and rights. Do not hesitate to remind them of whose trade union contributions they contain them for. The rise in capital on workers'rights is continuing and increasing. The country's economy has been abandoned decades ago and is close to final destruction, driven to a disastrous state by anti-national reforms and capitalization. The adoption of the Labour Code in the proposed form equals the backwardness of the economy and the form of employment relations of the past century. And that has its sinister and cynical logic. To prevent the Labour Code from being adopted in this option is to prevent a person from finally becoming a helpless animal, a talking tool. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u157	Vadim Gurov, faction of Ukraine, prepare. Odysnik passed the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished radio listeners. As a member of the Industrial Policy Committee, I have already raised the attention of the Government, the deputies and the public of the country on the critical status of the Ukrainian mining and metallurgical complex, and it was suggested that this issue should be considered shortly at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. The critical situation of our breadwinner is repeated, and I am not afraid of that expression, during the period 1998-1999. It was then that the Supreme Council, at the initiative of the Industrial Policy Committee, raised the problem in due height, adopted the decision after the Ministry's report, and then the Act on Economic Experiment in the Metallurgical Complex. And we didn't let that locomotive take out any other industries. We left the barter, switched to energy bills, ended up being held on salary, which led to the stabilization of the pension fund. The situation at first sight is not of such concern. But it's only at first sight. The Government and the Property Fund have taken up the main issue, in their view, of how to collect and honestly share, and they see budget savings in this regard. What I see is the main question. I don't care why I'm speaking. I want everyone to understand that the trouble on the doorstep and the half-measures is not going to fix anything. An extraordinary meeting of the Industrial Policy Committee was held yesterday, where responsible ministerial officials and the conclusions of the meeting were inconsolable. In May alone, we have no longer produced 200,000 tons of iron, 280,000 steel, 200,000 tons of prokata. Eleven ovens have been stopped and forced. 10 March ovens have been halted and the Maceev Steel Combine has been completely suspended. And it's a city-based enterprise, and the city lives and works 400,000 people. And behind the metallurgy was a chain: coke batteries increased to 40 hours from 18; Donbass coal miners didn't know what to do even with the minimum coal they're so hard to get. And the situation is getting worse every day. Price declines in the world market, lack of an internal market, and unprecedented growth in China. Well, 50 million a year last year. These are the latest technologies and the best quality, the loss of U.S. markets, Canada. And here we have an economic phenomenon. Rail transport increased by 50 per cent, the dollar changed, increased energy charges, VAT 1.7 billion, and the depreciation we are now. The situation we have. Metalsmiths will fall, give up their orders of heavy machinery, machinery, construction of industry, and others. Without the internal market, our economic policies are very vulnerable. This is one of the main issues of our economy and policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Rahansky passes the word to Mikola Nightshenko, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u160	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! I'd like to draw my attention to this statement for two moments. First. I have been instructed by the Council of the Odessa Institute of the Land Army to address the Minister of Defence and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, President Viktor Yushchenk, with his concern to bring their concerns to them because they are not heard from them, for the efforts of the government today to shorten this educational institution. This institution was created 140 years ago. There were three military schools. I would like to say that Odessa is a hero city along with Leningrad, Stalingrad and Sevastopol. From 1776 onward, the land of Odessa became the center of the new Sichi created after the destruction of Catherina of the second Zaporozhye Sichi. But here's the question of the relocation of the Institute where the Lviv political school used to be. Is it wise to bear billions of expenses, and I emphasize the costs that we will bear? Because today there are science teachers working at the Institute, 103 candidates for science, nine professors, 78 assistants, and so on. And it's not all in an empty place. This is all a monument to architecture in the best place in our pearl of Odessa. And all of this may also be done for the sake of someone’s liking the land and the land occupied by this institution today. I address the President directly to Victor Yushchenk not to allow the destruction of the Institute of Land Forces. I also address those who now run the Attorney General's Office, Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine, and the Holding Fund to take steps to save the state property that has been committed to the company. It was handed over by a secret decree to the U.S. government for $500 million. In four years, 37 of them were sold out to a so - called holding company, all under cover. How many questions, how many references I do not make, old or new authorities cannot yet clearly complete the investigation. I urge and ask you to consider my parliamentary request to these institutions, to whom I have addressed them, and I want to hear the answer to bring them to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u161	Mikola Nightshenko, Democratic Ukraine. Instead of Mironka, Grachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u162	Mikola Noshchenko, 160 constituency, Volodymyr Litvina constituency. I am two words in defense of Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, whom I know as the first President, a wise, bold and weighed man. And, friends, it's not right to talk about our colleague in his absence. Today, two speakers allowed themselves to do so and immediately left the hall. The theme of my speech is the results of a joint meeting of the Government and the leadership of the Supreme Council, which took place last week, I am in favour of deepening cooperation, but this cooperation should be open and consistent. Since 2003, I have been asking questions four times, including this rostrum twice. I think I've got a problem in the district after we've eliminated the poison chemistry, where there's only 1,000 tons of unknown substances. Not 10 and not 100, but 1,000. It's the Mid-Bug District. 100 tons in the Lampil region, in the Krolevetsky region. I think this trouble is affecting the constituency of every national MP. The last two requests have already ceased to be answered by the Cabinet of Ministers, and this is recommended by the ministries, sometimes not even by appointment. For example, the last time I spoke to Minrpompolitans, it's not part of this, it's said to be a disaster, it's reprocessing waste. Please find sources and customers. If you don't, go to the reserve fund, but it's a disaster for all of Ukraine. I ask you to return, Anatoly Kirilovich, to my final request and to my request, which I have personally been to you and to give you a second commission. The second question is: we are friendly, friendly, always in this room protecting the rights of socially unprotected groups of people -- pensioners, disabled people, unemployed people, homeless people, and so on, and today I want to address the issues of our native Ukrainian consumer society. This is where they go in, by the way, and all the categories that go in. Unfortunately, this is a question of 10 trots of our independence, and at the state level, it was neither broken nor resolved. Dozens, hundreds of commercial objects, and processing enterprises are now harmless and are not used effectively or on purpose. I have a beautiful shopping center in the village, and it doesn't work for eight years. In front of the car building, you might say, from the dog’s booth, they're trading food. I'd like you to put together our Ukoopsyzu leadership, please register and explain clearly to your colleagues, to all the Ukrainian people, how the money is stored in your property. I'm asking you to consider this as my MP's request, and I'm asking you to give an reasoned answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u163	Oleg Grachev, Communist faction, will be followed by Stephen Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u164	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues and all who listen to us. First of all, I have the right to speak to the President. Mr. President, speaking on channel "1+1" about the first hundred days of the new government and addressing in particular the issue of reconciliation between the Red Army and the UN UPA on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War, you, Victor Andryovitch, stressed that it was necessary to do so urgently, because even in Moscow, on May 9, this year, there will be a parade of German Wehrmacht's former fighters. All who watched the live broadcast of May 9th from Red Square did not see any German connections at the parade, and Russian television broadcast May 10th meeting of President Vladimir Putin of Russia, Chancellor Gerhard Schrauder of the Red Army and German veterans of the antifascists. Please, Victor Andriyovich, in connection with the actual course of events during the national celebration of the Great Victory anniversary, publicly disavow your claim of the parade in Moscow of Hitler’s armed forces, heard by millions of television viewers. This address was addressed to the President in due course. To this day, however, there is no response. That's why I'm talking to him again. Moreover, the previous appeal, which concerned unlawful interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Cuba, which they had allowed when signing a joint statement with the President of the United States, instead of a reply signed by the President, received a reply from the Deputy Minister. In this regard, I would like to say that even at the time of Kuchma, he has always received answers to his communications signed by the President himself. It seems that the current power is even less transparent and less fair than the previous one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u165	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. He'll be followed by Cadenuk Leonidas.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u166	The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Stephen Cloud. On April 19th, at a public rally in Simferopol, a prominent Russian hawk, the deputy of the State, a member of the Family faction, Victor Alksnys, came forward with harsh slanderous attacks on Ukraine's politics with calls for a change in the status of Crimea and the accession of Crimea to Russia. There were other slanderous appeals. Since there was no response from the Ukrainian authorities, I immediately made a parliamentary request to the Ukrainian Security Service. And that's the answer I got. Let me just quote a little bit. "There are no calls for deliberate action with a view to changing the boundaries of territories or the state border, which is why there is no evidence of a criminal offence against him." And this letter was signed by the deputy head of the Security Service of Ukraine Drizcani, which has already surprised me, because the response to the national deputy should be signed by the head of the structure. This behavior of our Ukrainian Security Service is totally not in line with the Ukrainian Security Service Act, particularly with regard to the second sex, where the functions of the Ukrainian Security Service are defined. I would like to call on the President of Ukraine to conclude in this regard that his duties as the Ukrainian Security Service are not properly fulfilled with regard to the protection of Ukraine’s national interests and national security. I would like to point out that this is not the first time that the Security Service has completely failed to perform its function of protecting Ukraine's national security. This was true during the provocative performances in North London, where our Security Service did not respond at all. And the bad example goes on to follow today’s composition of the Ukrainian Security Service. I hope that the President of Ukraine will draw the right conclusions to take immediate action before that. To ensure that the Ukrainian Security Service carries out its direct functions to protect Ukraine's national security and national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u167	Leonid Kadenuk has the floor. Get ready for Kuharczuk Orzhachowski. And then we'll get to the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u168	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorary colleagues, established in Ukraine, are legislators on national regulation of the activities of Ukrainian civil aviation and State oversight of aviation security, such as the Ukrainian Air Code, the Ukrainian Transport Laws, the functioning of Ukraine's single transport system during a special period, the State Aviation Safety Programme of Civil Aviation and others fully meet the requirements. The European Union. Sadly, however, in recent decades there have been some 30 resonant aviation disasters in Ukraine that have affected more than 400 people. This level of aviation safety does not meet the requirements of European aviation safety standards and is 5-7 times higher than the same annual figures in the Soviet Union. This was taken into account in the verification of the activities of civil aviation from 1998 to the 200th and the 2004s. The main causes of the problem lie in the deformed efforts of individual aviation operators in the civil aviation management system of Ukraine and the virtually elimination of the state aviation security oversight system. To meet the requirements of article 3.1 of the U.S. Air Code, despite the desperate opposition of nearly five and a half years from the air force and their supporters, the President’s decision to create an aviation security authority was reached. However, with the efforts of the same circles, the decree was substantially amended a month later. In this regard, it is impossible to create a legal system, and contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and a number of laws of Ukraine, it is impossible to establish a legal system of State oversight of aviation security and the creation of a so - called public service. As a result, the state security oversight system of all types of aviation in Ukraine is being completely destroyed: civil, military, sports, aviation, and so on. The creation of a state-of-the-art review based on Ukrainetrans is contrary to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Air Code, the laws of Ukraine on transport. In September - October 2004, I repeatedly asked President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma to return the civil aviation regulation system to legal effect. According to his mandate, the National Security and Defence Council and the legal authorities of the President's Administration conducted an analysis of the legality of the existence of the State service. Analysis confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u169	Five seconds, but you won't be done in five seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u170	Thank you. In this regard, I ask the President of Ukraine to take an urgent decision to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the international standards of aviation security oversight and civil aviation management system in the country by dividing powers between Mintrans and the Ukrainian State Service in charge of aviation security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u171	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. And he will complete the Hare, the one that John.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u172	Dear Head, colleagues, voters! Let me make an opinion on the intentions of the next Ukrainian revolution, the so-called administrative and territorial reform. In recent years, Ukraine has taken many destructive measures in the economic, social, and moral spheres. The desire to measure and divide Ukraine as quickly as possible is considered a panacea by the superior authorities. The government of Yushchenka, Timoshenko, after winning the presidential election instead of the stability and tranquillity of the people, decided to make him happy by overturning the map of the state. They are not concerned that, technically, Ukraine is not ready for this kind of action. Would it not be better if the funds for reform were directed towards rebuilding production complexes in villages and villages? That fragile stability that exists in society is held by the existing administrative and territorial system and the patriotism of human resources, the use of economic, historical and other values only allows the provision of minimal services to the population, the reduction of the destructive effects of yesterday's and today's foreign reform people. It does not take into account the opinion of the people who are the bearers of power under Article 5 of the Constitution. The requirements of the European Charter of Local Self - Rule have been forgotten. It provides for a change in the self - control area of a citizen survey. What, then, is the contact with the people when the village council is ousted? How many villages, villages, and small cities will not become promising, and individual parts will warm their hands to produce seals, license plates, passports? The liquidation of the council will eventually destroy the community. This will indeed be a settlement for the language of the prison. It is well known that only the council and its head have functions of authority that will never have a mythical mayor. They are the subjects of the trial in the interests of the community, and they are deprived of access to the court. This is very dangerous, especially in times when man’s land pits have been searched for by many who want to be taken away by both their wealth and theirs. The Company's faction in Parliament offers citizens of Ukraine, representatives and executives to defend the permanent system against attempts to separate themselves from the people. I would like to ask: where is the people's place for the control of reform? Where is the positive experience of Soviet times? Isn't this the path of Kuchma to rural reform? The new president seems to be using the same administrative scales, forgetting that the executive authority was not given a mandate to carry out similar measures by the Supreme Council. Neither does Mr. Immortal, who will be responsible for the consequences of reforms, say the nation’s national security. Officials who have fallen prey to the affair may not love their own people and their Fatherland are more important to them than they are to their personal well - being. The people of Ukraine, particularly my Hersonian against such destruction. The merger of communities is just the initiators and their Western patrons, who need the unconcerned territory, the weakness of Ukraine. We must say no to destruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u173	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u174	John the Rabbit. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Statement by the faction of the Ukrainian National Party concerning the EP. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party draws the attention of the President and Government of Ukraine to the inadmissibility of actions that call into question the foreign policy course on Ukraine's European integration and threaten its national interests. The Ukrainian People’s Party expresses serious concern over media reports about the President’s statement that it is possible to delegate part of its functions to the National Institute of the Single Economic Space. It is unknown that any of the advisors of the President of Ukraine recommended that he make statements that indicate a departure from the position of those forces that constituted the core of the candidate's support for the Presidents of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk. The agreement on the creation of a single economic space since September 19, 2003, was clearly viewed by the patriotic forces as a political project aimed at subjugating Ukraine to a neighbouring state. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party reminds President Viktor Yushchenka and its colleagues in the government of Ukraine of our joint assessment of the EPA agreement between Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan as such that it does not meet the course of European integration and is essentially a betrayal of Ukraine's national interests. The Ukrainian People's Party views a change in government position as a dangerous trend for the internal and foreign policy of the state. UNODC recalls that the practice of Moscow's political concessions, actively cultivated by the previous regime, has turned to Ukraine's full energy dependence, the control of Russia's shadow capital of many national strategic productions, the loss of information security and the subordination of Ukraine's foreign policy solely to the interests of the neighbouring state. Let's just think about one political initiative, "Together with Russia in the EU and NATO." UNODC advocates the development of an equal, good-neighbourly and mutually beneficial relationship with all nations, including Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia. We support regional economic agreements that primarily envision the creation of free trade without exclusions and restrictions on the basis of European Union and World Trade Organization rules and rules within and outside the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine and the strategic course for entry into the European Union and NATO, as well as Ukraine's self-entry into the WTO in the near future. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party warns that the transfer of a portion of the powers of the sovereign state to any national authority is a violation of the rules of a valid Constitution. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party urges the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to follow the electoral programme and to pursue a consistent, predictable policy aimed at the implementation of Ukraine's European choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u175	One minute, Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u176	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would still like to draw attention to today, because today is important enough in Ukraine's life, both in Ukraine's independent state for the last 14 years, and in Ukraine for its independence. Today is Prisoner’s Day. On this day of no welcome, I would just like to say to all the political prisoners, all those who have gone through Soviet camps, bush camps, that we remember them and appreciate their enormous contribution to the construction and development of the Ukrainian state. On behalf of the Supreme Council, I would like to welcome all of us with the opportunity that we have today to have a great deal of gratitude to these people and to have Ukrainian citizenship thanks to them. So I hope that sooner or later all political prisoners, all regimes, will be recognized and given the attention of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-03-m0.u177	Yes. Dear colleagues, we are out of time and everyone who wants to speak, I inform you that on June 6-10 we will be working on committees, factions and groups. I will remind you that on June 7, at 2 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings: child rights in Ukraine, maternity and childhood protection. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on June 14th, Government Day with questions, two questions will be raised: childlessness in Ukraine and ways of overcoming this phenomenon and the second on increasing the fight against drug abuse in and. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
