ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the “Council” system. [[10:04:04:04]] There were 351 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Astrova-Šumilova Hennadija Kostjanović, Zaplatinski Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Lithuania Vadim Valentinović and Timoshenko Viktor Anatoliyovich. Let us welcome our colleagues, wish them health, success, and all kinds of good things. Dear National Deputies, before we go to the issues that we have identified on Government Day, we need to find out what prevents us from working. Two factions. The faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine and the faction of “Regions” require a 30-minute recess to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. I'm asking if you'd like to speak and explain why you need to take a break. Who will speak from two factions? Vladimir Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Representatives of the Ukrainian media! Citizens of Ukraine! The behaviour of the factions of the Social Democrats united in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is due to the fact that there is no possibility in the country to combat legal methods of political persecution and repression. A clear example of this is the case of the ex-governor of the Zakartat district of John Rizak. For 4 months, a person is held in prison on absurd charges of suicide, exceeding official authority, and harassment. On the first charge in Ukraine, no criminal responsibility has ever been brought before. Exceeding official authority is giving five certificates to the governor's advisors who allegedly contain false information. Maybe the counselors weren't the best, and there's a question in the law enforcement agencies, but what's strange about this is that we haven't had any of the advisors and the President's surroundings, and he's also signed a certificate for them. And finally, a mugging, that is, a bribe that apparently took Rizak into the office of work. This is a bribe that has not been implemented or documented by law enforcement officers, and what is it that appears to have taken place according to the testimony of one witness, please tell us what is the value of such evidence in a court of law? Three days ago, the Zacarpathian Court of Appeal denied the prosecutor’s office further detention under Rizak’s watch on criminal charges. The prosecutor’s office, however, hid yesterday from a group of members of the people on his knees and fabricated a new criminal case against Rizak, accusing him of organizing public unrest. The criminal case for this charge was previously closed by the prosecutor’s office on his own initiative. All of this takes place with the immediate participation of the district prosecutor Yuri Benz on the demand of his patron, the current governor of the area of Victor Baloga, as stated in the prosecutor's office of the area, which has been enforced against Benz and Balagu, is the consent of President Yushchenk. We do not want to believe this, but how do we understand the public statements made by the Benz district prosecutor to the people's deputies in the office of work that he will never release Rizak because he will not be understood in Zakarpatta and that he will: “accept the social Democrats as his personal enemies” is literally. Or he could be a district attorney. This is a question for the Attorney General of Ukraine. Moreover, in this regard, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted two decrees on May 17 and June 1, 2005, which were thus far ignored by the IMF, the BSS and the Henprocurator. We demand the resignation of the procurator of Yuri Benz and the head of Victor Baloga's government. Until now, not only have we not heard of the release of the guilty and their accountability, but we have not heard any legal evaluation of these events. Isn't that why it's happening that performers accept just the higher political will of the President? Victor Andryovich, you have singled out once again as a special social-democratic party of Ukraine and another political power. [[united]] Personally, this disregard doesn't offend me, but you're ignoring 20 percent of Ukrainian citizens because so many voters in past parliamentary elections voted in favour of these political powers. Mr. President, you shared Ukrainian politics!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u3	Twenty seconds and complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u4	You haven't reconciled the fans of white and blue and orange, and more than that, you've divided the oranges. So do not ask who is separating Ukraine. At the same time, we refer to you as the President of Ukraine, the guarantor of the Constitution and the State, to ensure the legality and non-loving Social Democrats and, personally, John Rizak. If this doesn't happen, you have to be consistent and you don't have to interfere with the law enforcement authorities to sit down for playing Dustyenko, Tretlyak and others who are accused of more serious crimes and, unlike Rizak, they have a real impact on the course of the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, understanding from the news reports that today we are going to have a complication with the government’s Day, I have appealed to the Attorney General and the Attorney General has agreed to be on the Supreme Council today to provide an explanation as to whether this information is relevant. If you don't mind, Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to unlock the rostrum so that the Attorney General can speak. Then block again if you do not like the answer. There's an offer from the Attorney General to meet with the factions, and we'll be working if you don't find a solution we'll stop work. I'll tell you how better it is to find a way out of this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourselves. Dear colleagues! It offers different options. The first option is that you will now listen to the Attorney General's point of view, give him a chance. The second option is to meet the Attorney General with factions and then inform the Supreme Council about the proposals. There's a third option. Let us now move the leaders of the MPs and factions to the Cabinet of the Supreme Council and, with the participation of the Attorney General, we will have a proper discussion, if the decision is taken, then we will return to the consultations. And now I'd like to continue Government Day and meet with the Attorney General. No warning? So I now ask the leaders of the MP groups and factions to gather in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please participate in this meeting of the Attorney General of Ukraine, and now proceed to the matter of Government Day, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, please, let's really, dear colleagues, those who have taken up the rostrum, let's do it rationally. Now the faction leaders and groups, who began with the head of the Supreme Council, will meet with the Attorney General. Consultations will be held, and then we will be informed and acted accordingly. Wait, please. Well, if you don't, you'll continue your nursing. This will be more beneficial than standing in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I ask and inform again. The Chief of the Supreme Council is now meeting with the leaders of factions and groups with the Attorney General. We have every reason to continue the day of government. When they're done, they'll come, they'll inform. If the social-democratic faction is dissatisfied with the outcome of this meeting, what the Attorney General is going to tell us, we will continue to consult and then announce a recess. [[united]] Now I don't see the point of calling it a break, because that's the kind of consultation that's going on. I'd like to hear this. Because, well, you'll be standing there, the ministers will report from the rostrum, what will this give you? Well, stop, please. You don't want to solve people's questions, you do it the way you do it. Yes, dear colleagues, today we have to listen to the report of the Cabinet of Ministers, more faithfully, the Government's Day on the state of implementation of legislation in the field of waste management in Ukraine and its ways of improving it. Reporters are identified by the Cabinet of Ministers on these issues as acting Minister of Environmental Protection Ignatenko Pavlov Mikolaiovich and Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities Kucherenko Aleksei Juriovich. According to the committee, Rudenko Hennady Borisovich reports. Yes, please allow the minister to speak. Well, I repeat: the consultation will end, and you will continue to demand if they do not match the reality. From the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers is not coming forward, neither will it be cold nor hot, nor will it be for you to take care of yourself. Well, there won't be a report, well, there won't be. The fact is, your factions were the initiators of that day. I repeat: I can now announce the closing of the session, and all your worrying will be over. Is that what you want? Here's the next Tuesday, and you'll be waiting until next Tuesday. You've got it. Please have a seat. Tell me who's next to the microphone, I'll turn on the room microphones. Hare, please, John Alexanderovich. Paul Mikolaiovich, please sit down. John the Rabbit is on the Microphone. Your predecessor. Dear colleagues, I repeat and explain to my colleagues, journalists, and radio listeners. Blocking the rostrum can lead to a simple closure of today’s session. The meetings were closed. And you'll have the opportunity to make your opinion public next week, next Tuesday. And you are offered a wise approach. The consultation is about to end, they will come, they will inform. If the results of the consultation do not satisfy you, you will continue to block the rostrum. If you are satisfied with the advice, your colleague and our colleague, because he was our deputy, will be released. If not, you will wait a week. Well, let's think about it wisely. The minister also has no desire to speak out of place, for it demeans him. Please sign in. Five minutes of exchange of thoughts. Please, Orzhachowski, Yukhnovsky Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u7	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Today's agenda brings up the issue of Government Day and, by the way, the very serious issue of waste work and the legislative base that we haven't always talked about, but, as they say, is only culinary or at regional level. I understand the political situation today, and I understand the demands of the Social Democrats, but I do agree with the chairman, and I would also like them to understand that the option is better if the Attorney-General hears it just a few minutes after the consultations are concluded, than not to be able to address the problem they have today. So I think the chairman is right and I propose that the Social Democrats who are blocking the rostrum today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u8	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please prepare for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u9	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. First of all, I think that Social Democrats have expressed their position. The Attorney General was here. We should listen to the Attorney General’s position and then give our opinion first. The other one. I find it unacceptable, from the point of view of the MPs, to take the Prime Minister's place, that it is a church in relation to the state, and it does not bring any praise to the Social Democrats. Third. I don't think you can use Rizak as some kind of attack on a sacrificed sheep where Social Democrats can take their capital. I think all things will be resolved in a calm way, and so I urge you to start a normal job.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u10	Oleg Zarubinsky, please follow him, Manchulenko George.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u11	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I think everyone will agree that the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, has offered a very constructive proposal. The Attorney General, the present representatives and leaders of those factions who express their concerns and indignation, and the normal constructive format, not to break down the work of the Supreme Council, but to resolve the issue, is what he proposed. And it's clear that our colleagues in the faction of SDPU have the right to defend the rights, the position of their colleague, the one-party. On the other hand, I don't think it's the best option to question, for example, the efficiency of the work of the members of the Supreme Council. Maybe someone is conducting or scripting a position that shows that the new government can't work that the Supreme Council is ineffective, we need to re-elect the Supreme Council as soon as possible and so on. I didn’t want this to happen together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u12	George Manchulenko, please. Hennaday Vudovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u13	George Manchulenko 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, today’s discussion reminds me of the conversation of the deaf with the mute. A completely acceptable compromise is proposed. Then we can go back to different scenarios, including hearing the Attorney General. Unfortunately, there is still blocking the rostrum for one purpose, in my opinion. To draw attention to yourself in order to score some points in the parliamentary election campaign. I don't think that's the best way out of this. So in order not to mention the party that blocks the rostrum once again, I think Adam Ivanovich needs to take a 30-minute break or maybe more. After the consultations in the Head of Parliament are over, come back here and continue your work. Otherwise, it won't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u14	Gennady Widow, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u15	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to express my satisfaction with the proposal made in the reasonable position of Chief Adam Ivanovich, he often brings constructiveness to the work of Parliament, and today we have to demonstrate to Ukraine that Parliament is and will not be able to destroy anyone, any pervasive structures or SDPU(o) or anyone. Parliamentarianism in Ukraine proved its viability. And a perfectly wise offer. SDPU(o) expressed its position, drawing attention to problems, the leadership of the Supreme Council went to meet this position. The Attorney General is invited here. What else do you need? We're going to answer you, there's the Ukrainian People's Movement tomorrow, and we're going to take over the rostrum, and what are we going to prove to the Ukrainian people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u16	Yes, there has been an exchange of thoughts. Those who made suggestions on the matter, Igor Rafailovich said that the Attorney General had also left. No, he didn't leave. He went to meet with factions and groups. And when this meeting is concluded, either the Chief of the Supreme Council will inform you of what, or which agreement has been reached, or we will give the floor to the Attorney General. He will inform and we will be able to hear this information. On the point of who takes the places, well, who's been studying is not sure what they're doing. So maybe he's getting ready to take these places. Let them sit, let them sit, even though the deputies have other seats. I'm paying attention again. Dear colleagues! I see no need to block the rostrum now because the problem is being solved. If in 10 to 15 minutes they come and say it's not solved, then please, we'll act accordingly. I absolutely think that all the fellow national MPs or the absolute majority will support the social Democrats in the sense that, in fact, they are protecting their colleague, they are protecting our recent colleague, who was a parliamentary MP and head of the committee. It's all right. But there are standards that allow us to solve this problem. And I suggest you don't waste your time starting Government Day. After the consultation, you will not be satisfied with the answer, then we will stop the discussion and call a recess. Now I don't see the need for consultations not to have a government day. This is one moment. One second. Let's still be wiser in the sense that what happens to other authorities, higher bodies of the state, should at least the legislature show that these crises do not concern us, that we have the opportunity to work. What happened -- what happened -- what had something to do with Parliament -- he said he would agree to the appointment of the Prime Minister to be appointed by the President. Everything else must go beyond the walls of Parliament, because there is no way to influence the formation of a fully-fledged Cabinet of Ministers. If we are doing the duties of the Cabinet of Ministers to add to the responsibilities of Parliament, I think that this is for no one, any of the political forces and factions that are here, will be of no use, because we have to resolve those issues that should be resolved, including, and resolve the question that the faction of the Social Democrats has asked. [[United]] But there are, as it were, beginning with a consultation, they will end and we will have the opportunity. I would like to stress once again that you may be able to get to what will close today's session, and you will have to wait in vain for the following week. I don't think you have to do that in order to solve this problem today. They insist on taking a break. Please write down what are the proposals of the National Deputies. And we'll figure it out. Please, five minutes Mihovich. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we understand that the protection of one party is understandable, fair. But let's just say what we're looking at is an extremely complex social problem. And so it's just not clear why colleagues put their narrow-party interests ahead of those of the community. Nevertheless, I propose that we continue to consider the anticipated order of the day and at the same time wait for the results of the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u18	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the political party “Regions of Ukraine”. Our faction has repeatedly warned of the threat of destruction and social tension that transforms our society into a law enforcement body and police repression. Regrettably, the law enforcement officers were involved as the main performers of the will of the ruling regime. That's one thing. Maybe it's blasphemy to sit in a position or a place where the Prime Minister sits, maybe today's agenda is much more important, but let's think about what this is about. When Rizaka was taken from the hospital in the middle of the night, they meant to finish the investigation quickly, and it ended in nothing. He was to be released. Now it's closed again. And I'd like to ask my colleagues, don't ignore it, because in its place, there might be, uh, a kind of national MP, who have a political perspective that's different from today's power, from then on, it doesn't matter which. I think we should call it a break before the talks are over.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u20	Please, Yuri Sparrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you that in 2004 more than 14 years of Ukrainian independence were beaten up in Zakartat. These beatings took place under the direction of Mr. Rizak and under the direct direction of his advisers, who are now in international search. Thus drawing an angel with wings is cynical and relative to the population of Ukraine. We must continue to hold meetings and simply make Parliament an ineffective body headed by deputies who play the role of political clowns in their own chairs in a frivolous manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u22	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u23	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. I am forced, Adam Ivanovich, to repeat my opinion. It is that there are now two problems: the problem of defending one of the factions of one's one-party colleagues' interests; the second problem is obviously the scenario outside of the Supreme Council when the main institutions of power are ineffective or want to be shown as ineffective. In these circumstances, I think we can really announce a break to get the outside sanction to be that you can already unblock or unblock the work of the Supreme Council, because it's all the same to those people who are here, obviously, not dealing with these issues on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u24	Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, me. The position of the Ukrainian People's Party: let's really take a break. And I think in Zakarpat today it would be very interesting to hear how wastes are being transported in this area, which are related, the environmental situation applies not only to every inhabitant in this area, but to Ukraine in general. Maybe I think some people wouldn't want that to be heard, a very important question. I want to remind you that the court ruled that Kolesnik was released from custody. I hope that the court will make a decision that fits the law. In order to demonstrate that Parliament is ineffective, I turn to colleagues from different political factions: let's show at this time that the higher legislature is able to work effectively. There are consultations, the question will be resolved essentially, and we need to work both on waste and land issues after lunch, so let's take a break and get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u26	Gennady Rudenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, not the SDPU, have started a fashion for blocking the rostrum. It's me who's addressing today's officials. The U.S.S.A. shows an example of how to protect our colleagues. We have a really important question today, but it will wait for consultations with the Attorney General. The Attorney-General must be personally responsible for the resonant cases, although I understand that there are a lot of such “threats” around the country. There could be any of your colleagues in the Rizak place, your respectable colleagues. So I suggest we take a break. I suggest, after consultation, that the results be made public. And after that, continue the day of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u28	Yes, honourable colleagues, differing opinions, but considering that, and I am paying attention to the acting duty of Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the fact that the acting minister also has some solidarity with those who block the rostrum, puts his claims on where to report them and so on. So based on the fact that we don't have a report on Government Day, you don't have to demonstrate yourself, the same honor that went on for seven months in the Cabinet of Ministers, you've already agreed. Given that most deputies support the announcement of a recess, I announce a recess until 11 p.m., and perhaps earlier if the consultations are completed. And I'm asking the government to meet with the reporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u29	Let me inform you about the outcome of the meeting of factions and groups with the Attorney General and what we agreed upon. And we agreed as follows. Now the Attorney General has asked for a time-out by 12 o'clock to visit the Attorney-General's Office, to complete the case and to report to the Supreme Council at 12 o'clock on the decision of the Attorney-General regarding the situation. That's one thing. The conversation was, as far as I know, so that the prosecutor is not able to tell exactly what the case is and what the prosecution's argument is. He promised to give us an answer at 12 o'clock. The Head of the Supreme Council is now with the President of Ukraine, and there are various issues, including the problem involved, that will be raised in the talks of the Chief of the Supreme Council with the President of Ukraine. We agreed, and faction leaders will confirm that in connection with this situation, the faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party agrees to wait until 12 o'clock. [[united]] We have reason to spend the day of the government now, and at 12 o'clock, we have reason to listen to the Attorney General and, according to his information, we are with you and the faction of the Social Democratic Party will act. [[united]] All right, you got a deal? Thank you. Block, please, all the more free space. Learn, sit. Let's see. Since you and I have lost an hour, dear colleagues, I will now see how the committee proposes. Here's half an hour's information and then an hour's questions. Perhaps Paul Mikolaiovich, you can reduce not half an hour, but less. Please, 20 minutes, and then we'll ask questions, because we've lost an hour. Please give the floor to the minister responsible for the protection of the environment, Ignatenko Pavel Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the Honourable Head! Adam Ivanovich, I apologize for the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u31	Let's get back to each other, let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u32	I just wanted to say, first of all, that the issue of environmental safety and the more wastes it's a matter of national importance, they need the highest rostrum. And secondly, we have a rule that forbids me, as a doer of duty, as an official, to speak out of the seat of a national deputy, only a government bed and a rostrum. This is according to the Rules. I wanted to welcome you all, taking this opportunity, with the beginning of the season, and to express such a expectation that the issues related to ecology and nature conservation will not be a hindrance to the political events that are taking place. In international practice, waste management has become an integral part of industrial infrastructure. This system includes a set of measures that are defined by this sequence. First. Limitation of waste production. The other one. Recycling is recycling and regeneration. And the third. It's an environmentally safe waste disposal. As a result of these conceptual positions, a waste management strategy is being developed. Since 1998, following the adoption of the Ukrainian Supreme Council of the Waste Act on March 5, 1998, a fairly powerful legal basis has been developed between 1998 and 2004. Today, more than 50 state-level legislations have been adopted, of which 14 laws of Ukraine are about 30 decisions and government regulations, which apply and are gradually approaching the requirements of European legislation. I would like to stress this in particular, because the issue of European integration, adaptation to European legislation, is above the ministry's top priority. The answer to such questions is crucial. Establishing the obligations of waste manufacturers as the central subject of relations in that area. Establishing the powers of the authorities and the functions of the authorities. The definition of a circle of specially authorized bodies for waste management and their functions. Forming as a set of general and special requirements for the environmentally sound use, disposal and transboundary transport of waste. These problems, you know, are related to these trucks, to transporting the waste of the Carpenter. Setting up integrated economic incentives for efficient waste management, limiting further waste generation and accumulation, stimulating the process of integrating waste into the production cycle as secondary raw materials. This question is particularly important in terms of energy conservation and in terms of environmental requirements. So here's what I'm going to focus on. Providing environmentally sound disposal of wastes that are not to be disposed of has enabled the State to initiate the real management of waste streams and to exercise stricter control over compliance with environmental safety requirements in dealing with them, resulting in significant positive results. Natural resources for the disposal of waste have increased. This means that the mechanisms for waste management and the discipline of the wages of enterprises have improved. This allowed for a separate budget programme on waste and hazardous chemicals, with solid funding at the expense of the State Fund for the Environment in the field of waste management, starting on 19, 2002. It's solid, but it's not good enough. The amount of additional subsidies introduced in 2002 to entrepreneurs involved in the collection and processing of wastes, such as secondary raw material, the timely introduction of licences in this area, has increased considerably in the collection of materials, glass fights, plastic wastes, works of oil, and so on. According to the rate of collection of these raw materials, the country's manufacturing enterprises have reached the level of 90-91. This is a very high indicator when you've seen the highest level of gathering them. In fact, if you see it, the diagram shows how effective these robots were. In order to address the strategic tasks defined by the Ukrainian Waste Act, the Government's responsible decision to improve the regulatory and legal regulation of waste management in the development of forms of primary waste management, forms and instructions of materials that, with the addition of passports, methodological guidelines for the establishment of waste standards, the order of storage of waste in the enterprise's territory. This is in line with articles 6, 7, 26 of the Ukrainian Waste Act. Performing the tasks and actions of the state-wide toxic waste management programme until 2005. Now we're asking this question to discuss the Cabinet of Ministers and to continue this programme until 2010. Implementation of the tasks and actions of the waste management and consumption programme until 2005 as well as the 2010 extension. Control over compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in the field of waste management by specially authorized State authorities in the field of waste management in accordance with articles 22, 23, 37 of the Waste Act. Carrying out tasks and actions of the solid waste management program, the work of improving the organizational and economic mechanism of the collection, preparation and disposal of the used packaging, the packages introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 26 July 2001 at number 925. This decision has proved to be rather problematic, especially in the process of repealing regulatory rules that hinder business, business. But I think it's imperfect, but it's very important, and it's separate from your questions, if they relate to the activities of Ukri.comresions, I'll say it separately. At the same time, the waste management situation remains very difficult because there is a significant gap between a valid legal base and the State's intention to ensure that their provisions are implemented. As of January 1, 2005, the total accumulated waste from expert estimates ranges from 20 billion to 30 billion tons. What's more scary is that the question is not only about the figure of 30 billion tons, but the horror is that the two different opinions that have been expressed in the media and in the public domain, the figure of 20 billion tons and the figure of 30 billion tons are those that are actually given by the experts -- the scientists and the management of our ministry. So this is, I think, the biggest problem with activity. In the field of waste management, this is the lack of reliable, well-founded scientific information on the state of affairs in the country. It is estimated to be 50,000 tons per square mile [1 sq km] of Ukrainian territory. Imagine what an indicator is, it's one of the world's highest waste accumulation rates. It's a specialty of structures. Waste generation in Ukraine in connection with raw economics is dominated by mining waste. Of these 100 percent, 88 percent of waste is mining waste. While part of the waste of other industries is ten percent, the raw material-based industry is just two percent. The vast majority of these wastes are made up of the enterprises of Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Zaporin areas that really are and remain, and hopefully will be the economic potential of the state. The wastes of mining, mining and processing industries that have been accumulated in recent years can be seen as a significant additional resource-mineral potential of the state. These technological accumulations of waste have been formed for many years. Not even for many years, but for decades. They have a volatile composition and an unendurable spatial location, and they experience qualitative changes under the influence of various factors. Identifying its industry as a source of mineral raw materials requires further research. The national cadastral crop and beneficial fossils are accounted for, you can see in the diagram, 630 prospective objects that have been created as a result of the manufacturing activities of the above - mentioned industries. Sadly, however, only 12 objects have been studied in detail in 14 years of independence, and these 12 objects have been assigned the status of a technology genealogy that has enabled them to be transferred to that status. At the same time, these objects are a source of environmental pollution. And the vast areas of some 160,000 hectares are occupied by these deposits that are extracted from the farm. As they say, Ukraine's largest and most valuable resource is the earth, it's under the influence of these wastes, colossal about 'em. And on this point, in the Ministry, there's a completely clear, clear concept that goes on in this area. I'll say two words, then we'll do it. I think the questions will be, I'll explain in more detail. There are now decisions that will be made by the end of this month, by the end of September, to be done to verify all the genealogies that are possible, all the polygons that can be assigned genealogical status, will be transferred to the status of technological genealogy. Then there will be a process of tendering and licensing for those technogeneous breeding sites, with a mandatory requirement for conservation measures with the exact cultivation of these lands. Today's techno-economic conditions indicate the prospect of developing these stocks while bringing these objects to an environmentally sound state. There should be precise legislative principles, waste repositories, technogeneous genealogies, transfer of ownership to waste, and so on. At the same time, this approach should be an additional factor in creating new jobs for workers liberated in basic industries and will be an important component in solving the complex environmental and socio-economic problems of mining regions in Ukraine. With regard to the production of toxic wastes, about 63 million tons were collected in Ukraine’s businesses in 2004. As for 2003, their volume, that's very good, fell by 25.6 percent. That's what I'm lecturing in 2004. Unfortunately, I'm transferring numbers to the first half of the year because of the problems with statistical reporting. A single group of solid wastes are unfit for and banned from the use of chemical plant protection products. According to official statistics, the number of these wastes in the Ukraine is about 20,000 tons, but, again, I emphasize this is a conditional figure, and I think it's a shame that we still don't know what kilograms of pesticides we have, where they are, where they are, where they are, and what is the plan of action for their destruction on each of the objects. I'll do anything, I promise you, over the course of the year, the issue of pesticides in the country will be resolved. They have been decided upon after the destruction and destruction. They are preserved by about 5,000 warehouses of various forms of property and by the vast majority of them with violations of existing environmental and sanitation standards. Their impact on the environment is difficult to overestimate because there is a direct dependence between their condition and stockpiling, and the impact on human health, the impact on groundwater, the impact on land resources that are actually derived from farming activities. As of January 1, 2005, about 1.6 billion tons of toxic waste had been stored in landfills. That's a terrible number. Out of the total amount of waste generated, 58 percent are placed in places of organic waste storage, of which 16 percent are in landfills that are used for environmental safety violations or do not meet the applicable standards. In 2003, there was a 19 - year decrease of 3 percent. Solid household waste is mainly buried in 3,000 garbage dumps and polygons. 177 garbage dumps are overloaded. 467 do not meet environmental safety standards. Work on the rehabilitation and rehabilitation of existing garbage dumps has been under way. Branch ministries such as the Minprompolitics, the Minagropolitics, the Minpolyvenergos are virtually not planning in their sectoral programmes measures for the implementation of enterprises that are part of their management of modern, scientifically sound technological solutions for the disposal, disposal and disposal of waste by appropriate financial means. This led to an excessive accumulation of waste in the area of the listed enterprises. The accumulation of large amounts of non-equity waste was primarily because local government administrations, I emphasize that, and local self-government authorities do not ensure compliance with the requirements of Ukraine's Waste Act, as a result of which the above-mentioned waste management facilities do not exclude land areas, virtually do not operate a commission for the management of non-equity wastes, improperly ensures the introduction of registers, disposal sites and waste management, the development and implementation of regional and local waste management programmes, the promotion of clarification of waste legislation. For many years the system of state statistical waste management that does not meet modern needs has not been reformed, more so, by European standards. Thus, the main problem in this area continues to be: the storage and disposal conditions that do not meet environmental and health-epidemiological requirements; the unsatisfactory situation of disposal; the disposal and disposal of waste due to the lack of adequate specialized facilities and facilities for centralized disposal of industrial and household waste; and the lack of a proper waste management system. Non-use to the full by the central authorities of the State authorities of the powers laid down in articles 18-23 of the Waste Act of Ukraine. Low environmental awareness of the population. Inadequate financing of waste management activities at all levels: national, regional, local, business. I think that waste is not a problem now, it's not a problem now, it's not a problem of enterprises, it's already practically a problem of public policy, so when we come up with the concept, we're focusing on the fact that there should be a national waste management, governance and financing strategy in the state right now. The very low cost of waste disposal, which does not fit European practice and does not stimulate the enterprise by creating waste, implementing measures for its disposal or transferring it to a specialised enterprise. There's a lot of unsanctioned dumps and wastes, indevelopment. a regulatory and organisational economic mechanism to stimulate entrepreneurial activities, as it were, to increase waste management rates and reduce the extent of their creation. There is no effective control of waste streams. Ineffective use of the mechanism of punishment and misdemeanour in waste management The absence of constant monitoring, control and quality of the environment in waste storage sites is primarily hazardous. As a result of the foregoing, the existing waste management situation can be described as unsatisfactory. In view of the above, the gradual resolution of waste problems by prioritizing the state’s waste policy is an important component of improving waste management. This is the most urgent solution to the problem that we have taken to work in the government on the basis of. Further development and implementation of a series of legal and regulatory instruments and the entry into force of the "On Wastes" Act, which should take into account, inter alia, the principles of European legislation. Performing tasks planned for non-state toxic waste management programs. Program “Use of waste production and consumption for the period until 2005 with an extension of the deadline to 2010”. “Construction with solid household waste”. The introduction of an organisational and economic mechanism, the direction of waste management and the reduction of waste generation, and the provision of environmental safety requirements for hazardous waste management. Overview of the payment for the disposal of waste. This work should be carried out in close association with local and central authorities, mandatory support being the fundamental support of the Supreme Council and you, the national deputies. At the heart of this work, it should be moved to a regional level and focus on the following: disposal of unsanctioned landfills, sorting of polygons and waste sites, creation of disposal facilities for storage, disposal and disposal of waste, including toxic and, above all, appropriate disposal of land to these ends. The organization of the collection and disposal of household wastes has provided for the separation of useful components of these wastes and their further use in the national economy. Measures have been taken to stimulate waste management activities. In order to clarify the tasks assigned to them, local authorities should plan for them in local budgets the funds to be allocated on an urgent basis. Solving highlighted problems. requires immediate adoption of such legislation. First. It's a waste packaging bill. The Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in the Field of Waste Management. The bill is ready. There they need to change before they change the security laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u33	Let me finish. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u34	Thank you. On local government administrations, on local self-government in Ukraine, on insurance, on the Code of Administrative Offences and necessarily on the Criminal Code of Ukraine, on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Responsibility and Compensation under the Basel Convention on the Control and Transborder Transport of Dangerous Wastes and their Disposal, which will allow the full use of the provisions of the Basel Convention on the Strengthening of Control and Responsibility for the Transport of Dangerous Wastes, in accordance with international requirements. Another change. draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On the Universal Programme for the Treatment of Toxic Wastes. For the purpose of reviewing the terms of its implementation, content and funding, I said by 2010. The Cabinet of Ministers' draft regulation to amend government regulations on the implementation of the system of collection, sorting, transport, processing and disposal of waste as secondary raw material, which, inter alia, provides for the approval of the form of granting to enterprises, institutions, organizations that use packaging, packaging, and information on the provision of this activity. The government's draft decision to reform statistical reporting on waste management, which is a priority for improving existing reporting in the area of hazardous waste management. The government’s draft decision to approve the transfer to the state administration of prospective waste stocks for the purpose of assessing the quality of the technological deposits of beneficial fossils and the transfer of wastes that may be classified as technogeneous breeding sites, other owners using tender procedures, and a series of regulatory documents on industrial exploitation of sites. waste for the purpose of involving valuable waste components, the management and management of these sites in environmentally safe conditions. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u35	Thank you, Paul Mikolaiovich. You see, dear colleagues, how many problems we're discussing. This is probably not the first time that a reporter named the Cabinet of Ministers is giving themselves an underestimation in that problem, because, really, you see, the problem is enough and enough, I would say, explosive. Please sign up for the questions. 30 minutes. As long as they are recorded, please, in writing, Paul Mikolaiovich, if there is one. Then please, we're only 30 minutes on our lips. Please, George Kruchkov, the Communist faction. Prepare Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u36	Dear reporter! Thank you for your report. Frankly, we're not satisfied with your answer to that question on the committee's disposal and destruction of explosives and wastes that arise. What's really interesting is what we're going to do with the Pavlovgrad Chemical Plant and another plant in Pavlovgrad, where it's being created, you know, essentially the preconditions for a new environmental disaster? I'd like a clearer answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u37	I have to agree with you that the problem is so serious that it doesn't fit into one answer, or more than two paragraphs. This question, I think, should be heard separately by the Supreme Council on ammunition, rocket fuel -- all that's left to be dangerous from the military, from the Ministry of Defense. I'll tell you what I did and what I insist, and I'll insist, and the decision is made. It's during the month, by the end of September of the month, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Defense, our ministry, the Ministry of Minprompolitics, we're doing a wide-ranging work on. That's what I'm talking about. It was a decision of the government, which at my suggestion was made by 31 numbers. And I want us to put together a working group over the course of the month, where national MPs will necessarily go, a committee of our own, the Minprompolitics, the Committee of Industrial Politics will be attached. And I would like this to be not just an answer to a question, but a clear plan of action, although it will be a long - term one, but the priorities need to be identified, the very dangerous things need to be identified, and the mechanisms for overcoming these things, priorities, in a short time, but the plan should be no less than three or five years. So let's say we agreed in that government that during the month under the leadership of Roman Immortal then we should have held a number of working groups and at the end of the month come to Kabmin with specific proposals on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u38	Thank you. You see, your honorary colleagues, as those who sit in the government's bed lose, they haven't signed up for the faction question. Please, Leonid Isaiah. After him, Igor Yukhnowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u39	The “Regions” Party, the city of Harkov. You touched on that question, but somehow it sounded a little bit unconvincing. I want to focus on him a little bit. Countless warehouses of fertilizers, both in homes and in tanks and without work, pose a huge threat not only to the environment, understandably, but also to the population, especially since they do not even know in the absolute majority what is there. I would like you to tell me about the programme that is being created there, whether it will still be created, but please tell me what it is proposed to do as soon as possible to eliminate all these atrocities, this entire disaster, and how much time it takes for it and the means to start, it is understood that many things can be listed here, but nevertheless, faster and faster, and more quickly. Therefore, the question is the most recent of these cases, as far as you have put in the budget proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u40	So thank you for asking. Yes, it turned out that this was one of the key questions that I set myself as the task of the Cabinet of Ministers is to destroy pesticides and these dangerous approaches. I know a clear and clear plan of action. And that's why I'm saying that in a year it's more than real. Now the situation is that unfortunately, we don't have objective information about storage sites, about the state of storage of these wastes. So first of all, what we're doing right now is we're doing large-scale, total passporting, inventory of all the pesticides, because I don't have a figure of 20,000 tons or 22,000, I want to know how much is in the kilograms where they are in what state. So that's the first one. First. The target set by the end of the third quarter is to have information about coordinates, precise coordinates from the photo video, if it's possible to document it in each of the regions, in each of the villages. What's more, I've joined and tried to add the maximum public, because unfortunately, none of the authorities can know where the pesticides were, when they brought some car to just the grandmother who lives in this village, sorry about those comparisons, they might know that some guys came in and put two tons or how many tons and they put the ground down. It's very hard to find, because one thing when they're stored in warehouses and the other thing, when they're destroyed, they just put them in a hole. So my job is to do a total inventory of all pesticides. The other one. They need to be destroyed in the country by about 50 million euros, and I'm counting on them to be stocked up, so if this is a European indicator, the budget is not enough for these programs, I've proposed in this budget to set up a separate programme. This is the program that would allow them to be found within a year and destroyed. What we have, because we've managed to increase the cost of pollution by two and three times, will be the additional cost of the environmental fund for the following year. I'm going to fund these programs, and I'm going to propose to the government as a front. That's the first one. The other one. I'll tell you the main thing, I know that there are international organizations that have already worked in Georgia, Belarus, in other countries that, at their own expense, as international aid in this area, are allocating funds for it to come, collect them and drive them out of the territory of our country after the tender and the organization that is responsible for them. Because not only is it a problem to find them, it's not a problem to identify them and preserve them, it's a problem to destroy them. And we don't have enough power in Ukraine to destroy. What's more, it's an additional question, the resonance among the population and the resonance among society, as dangerous as it is, the destruction of these approaches. So I'm putting this incredibly high plank to not just identify them and do inventory, but find the funds out of the budget. Because if you count on the budget, I think you can wait a long time, and I've decided not to wait. And the second is to make every effort to get these wastes to be removed from the territory of the state and destroyed in another state. It's such an extremely important thing. But by the end of the year, I will be, and I've already set up the task of being created and developed, and it's being developed, a state-wide strategy of agreement right after pesticides and their destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u41	Please, Igor Yukhnovsky, prepare Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we've been talking about major environmental hazards. But I'd like to ask you about new environmental hazards, but they're very common in their mass, and they're huge, and that's the garbage that dumps the population. Separate waste collection: glass — separate, plastic — separate, metal — separate and product waste — separate. That's the first question. The appropriate work to be done in schools, in institutions, in churches, in the military to prevent a small witness, but which covers virtually the entire territory of the State. It costs, in principle, much less than what you were asked in previous questions. What is the policy of the ministry and the purpose of the ministry in this direction?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u43	Thank you, Reverend Igor Raphaelovich, for asking. Unfortunately, I have to disagree with you that this is cheaper than pesticides, because starting with this process from every apartment, from every house and from every person, starting with separate sorting of these. Regrettably, money is invested both in the European Union and in the United States and elsewhere in order to force, or in some way to interest, even people to do separate sorting. Because it's a fundamental principle. If there is no normal sorting at the flat level, as the courtyard says, then what comes on the sorting line is very difficult to separate. Our task is extremely important, and I don't think we're going to be able to get a job any time soon, so that every apartment can be sorted into several kinds of glass, separately, separately, separately, on metal, separately, separately, separately, on macularity. It's very expensive, very difficult. I believe that, at the first stage, it is essential for us to have a large scale, really, including the Minosvits, I have already spoken on this subject, and we have held joint talks from both the Minosvita and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, to start a wide-ranging movement on explanatory work. There is a program that will be funded by the Ministry of Explanation and Explanatory Work. But it's very important to us right now at this point even if we try to divide organic compounds and it's not organic. If we have two trash cans at home and they're going to fit, it's going to be a revolution. Then, I totally agree with you, I don't use the term trash very much. I think it's a secondary raw material that has to return to the maximum coefficient of national agriculture, with a minimum, even virtually with a total ban on combustion, what remains after sorting. Because we have these powers that are very expensive, and we don't have enough money to build such combustion plants as in Vienna there or in other countries. But maximum processing, there are already technologies in the world. There's technology in our scientists. Unfortunately, the only thing that's missing is the only technology base, Ukrainian technology, international technology. In the Ministry, unfortunately, it wasn't. Now we're reproducing and restoring it, we're collecting the entire world experience, we've already gathered most of the experience of our scientists. Because the problem is very simple. I'm going to tell you, three literally consecutive actions. The first is sorting: organics, inorganics. The second is gathering and separating, which is sorting. By sorting the depth of sorting to 70%, 50-70%, I think it's a very, well, real indicator. But at this intermediate stage, it's really necessary not just to add the best technology, but to have this equipment that's going to be in these factories, it's its own production, it's Ukrainian production. This will provide additional funds for the development of machine building and for additional jobs. We have every opportunity to produce these sorting lines on Ukrainian businesses. That's why technology can either be bought or joined by foreign investors, but provided these lines are built on our businesses. And the second is what's left of, after sorting, it's not really allowed to be sent to the national economy as a secondary raw material, it should be disposed of, but very much with a requirement, a strict requirement of environmental legislation. So as one of the ingredients of this whole question, it's two things. This is a large - scale public understanding, a government program to encourage business to do so. The further the state gets from these things, the better it will be for all. We have two things to finance, I think, that I'm going to promote for the next year of funding is just a program for a separate congregation, for a separate congregation. And the second is the cost of loans to entrepreneurs who want to do this business. These are two programs, and we need to move as far away from state control as possible in this area. The local authorities need to allocate the land, to make a tender for the best offer, to the power we can, to the technology that the ministry can actually recommend or insist on. And after the tender, the Ministry can spend our money on loans to these companies that will work. I think it's a unified scheme that will make it possible to develop both business and create jobs. And the mandatory requirement, I reiterate, is that these powers be built on their own businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u44	Paul Mikolaiovich, we are pleased to see that you are well aware of the subject, and that you have a comprehensive answer, but they ask more concisely because they want to ask more questions. Please, Basil Calinchuk, Eugene Kirilchuk behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u45	Thank you. Kalinczuk, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania, Rest. Dear Paul Mikolaiovich! I would like to specify the question asked by Igor Raphaelovich. You know, drive by right now. on the big roads, on the small roads, practically, shamefully, that's what's on the left, and on the right side of a lot of polyethylene waste -- bags, bottles and so on. What is the Ministry doing in this direction to bring order here? Is there a special program, or is there a processing technology, or is there any facilities, factories, or other facilities for processing these polyethylene wastes? What's more, we're going to be looking at the 2006 budget. So how do you get something involved in this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. It's very concise. First of all, all the amendments I have listed to the bills, to the laws of Ukraine, to the Cabinet regulations, they apply to these issues. That's what's going on with the legislation. But I also believe that the issue of garbage in cities and villages is not a matter that needs to be resolved by law. It is the direct responsibility of local authorities to control these issues. I'm going to propose only two things on this issue -- this is a major one -- from the following year to the increase in responsibility, to the change in the Criminal Code for violations in this area. And the control of our administrations, our inspections, will be strengthened. And the powers, I'd say, the powers, they are, the technologies are. There is the example of Kiev. The company that created it without waiting for the help of the state. It's created the power of sorting, collecting, processing waste. I insist on meeting with the governors, asking them to give them every opportunity to allocate land to advertise tenders so that people can do business. There's enough profitability, there's all the preconditions for it to be like business. You know, the more you say, polyethylene. These are things that they say are competitive and can be valuable. But the state must, first of all, exercise strict control, increase responsibility and increase fines for such things. And in addition, incentives are to make loans to those enterprises that will develop and create new processing capacities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u47	Paul Mikolaiovich, do you mean the company “Grinko” in Kiev?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u48	I wouldn't want to call this company from this rostrum. So I know that there is experience in many.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u49	I just know that there's this company in Kiev that you're talking about. Perhaps there are others, for many are really needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u50	Adam Ivanovich, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u51	Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Block. Behind him is Mikhailo Stepanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u52	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, block of Julia Timoshenko Your Honor, you've given us convincing information that the situation is catastrophic. Ecologically-catastronomical. And it became clear to us that this problem could not be solved by the Ministry itself. The way you look at it to make a national program. Perhaps a special law can be prepared. Because, as you can see, if there's a garbage dump, we need to get the mayors involved. If technological waste is an enterprise. If it's toxic waste, it's the Ministry of Defense. And that takes a lot of money. How do you see it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. First of all, I don't think it's catastrophic. And I wouldn't want any more of this on these things, catastrophes, some kind of crisis. Indignant people. I think, fortunately, it's not a catastrophic situation yet, it's critical. It's very difficult, but re catastrophic. As far as the Ministry is concerned, I'm sure this is our job. And we'll deal with it, because that doesn't mean I'm going to be running through trash and collecting waste. This means that I will be speaking at all levels with the initiative to keep this question quiet and it will not remain after our conversation, as they say, only spoken. And for that, I'm going to be asking questions at any level, but to solve the question. That's all I said. 31 numbers we held a very powerful government meeting on this issue. Everyone exchanged their thoughts, set up a commission, a working group. You know how quickly you and Kinach worked on the premixtures of Zakarpatta. Our fund was funded, urgently. Before September 1, all the wastes were removed that were near the playgrounds and schools. In three days, literally. So I want to say that the situation is controlled now. Second, that's what I'm going to bring these questions to the highest level. We have an agreement, and I've had suggestions on wastes of dangerous ammunition, fuel, including nuclear weapons. To hold Security and Defence Council meetings, and I will insist on it, regardless of who controls it. And raise, really, to the state level. As for the state waste management programme, I am sure that this should be like the Waste Act, there should be one. You don't have to make extra laws. You have to write waste laws to your household. We need to expand, strengthen, within one basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u54	Mikhailo Stepanov, please. Behind him, Shirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u55	Stepanov, faction of the socialist party. Dear Pavel Nikolayevich, since the era of socialism, a memorable slogan – waste – into income. But somehow we're talking more about household waste. But they can be said to be processed, but tell us how it is planned to stimulate those who take up industrial waste processing is a completely different level. Here's a plot of land or some kind of loan, I don't think it'll be worth it. There is indeed a need for public approaches, perhaps benefits and taxes, and direct subsidies. And let's say, you could call this a positive example of who is doing something in the region that is processing industrial waste and what is now being accumulated and what has already been accumulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, I can't give such a powerful and powerful example, unfortunately, but I don't think it has anything to do with income or it's not profitable. The question is, my task to myself is to make this waste as little as possible, you know? What should be encouraged and directed so that they are created as little as possible? And those who are now, that is to say, separate those objects that have the possibility of assigning the status of technogeneous genealogies, not all waste there. [[I've already stressed a little bit about this.]] There are, indeed, zones, and here they agree with the socialist principle of waste revenue, there are a lot of questions. These programs, they're on a regional level. They just don't work, why? Because there was no interaction with the local authorities and it wasn't really the main thing, it was the owner. Do you understand? When is there no council in the state? When there's no owner responsible for what's going on. If it belongs to an enterprise, then an enterprise should, and it's creating it, it should do everything it can not to create it. An example of one of the companies. The metallurgical enterprise that I had the honour of being present with the President showed that there are very high technologies that allow to reduce emissions by four times, while increasing output by five times twice. So the first step is to reduce waste and reduce it by modern technology. And in this we are ready to stimulate, including perhaps at the disposal of our foundation. The second accumulation that is is to divide what can be attributed to the status of the technogeneous genealogies and after that I have said, we will have to announce a tender, issue a license to the people with a mandatory condition, followed by precise land recuperation and planting of green plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u57	Please, Yuri Shirko. Anatoly Frost is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u58	Dear Paul Mikolaiovich, you rightly pointed out in your report that we have a very low level of environmental awareness of the population. This actually creates a major waste management problem, because we can encounter cases of discharge of fluorescent lamps into garbage cans. I am not talking about the pollution of rivers and forests along the roads. So my question is this. What you see is how you can overcome this problem. Is there any need for an additional legislative arrangement, or is there a need for more stringent accountability for unsanctioned waste disposal, or is there any other action that you, as a minister, see how you can overcome the problem of having a low level of environmental consciousness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. I think it's still a set of measures that I've listed, but I'd like to focus on environmental culture and consciousness. Here again, I agree with one of the slogans of the past, which is clearly not where they clean up, but where they don't trash. So there's only one thing that I know right now is that we should be sharing programs with the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, and we're developing a program with the Ministry of Health to spread with the Ministry of Health, with the task of assigning a wide range of public organizations to carry out an explanatory work in this direction. I don't think it takes a lot of money in the state, at least I don't ask them to join the state. I know that this is a matter of more technological and, most importantly, political will. I think it's not exactly this stage that counts -- it's still a job that lets you say that, first of all, it's up to everyone. If she's conscious, if she keeps her environment where she is. It's found, and that's where it starts, as they say, in the state of improvement. Oh, about responsibility. Of course, I have already stressed this; it must be increased, first of all: (1) fines must be increased, substantially increased. to the European level gradually; 2) to amend the Administrative Code; (3) and to amend the Criminal Code for specific violations. Possible options and financial incentives are mechanisms that allow people at some point to encourage them to at least do first-stage sorting. These programs will be developed by the end of the year with the Statecommunospo, I think it's final in terms of encouragement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u60	Anatoly Frost, followed by Igor Ostas.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u61	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region. Please give the word to my colleague by the faction of Mikola Petrovich Noshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u62	Please, Michael Nightingale's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u63	Zedszczenko, 160 constituency. ‘ Lithuania’s People’s Party. Dear reporter, I want to look again at the problem of poisons, their disposal. Well, first of all, my four references, why is Minprompolitics here, not your department? That's the first question. The second question. We need to be honest. Well, there's no state-of-the-art disposal program today, district, including the Suma area, no. You didn't back off the 2005 budget for these purposes, you don't see your position in the 2006 budget that the government was looking at yesterday. There is no such line, there is no coin for these purposes. As you think of protecting, well, above all, you, by informing society and national MPs and voters, are telling the truth, the lie. How will you deal with this problem in the years to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, I've already said that I'm very, I know the real budget problems that there are now, I know what the demands of time on social pay are. It's not true that the budget doesn't provide for these funds -- they're predictable. And at the same level as I remember, 34 million dollars on this program. So I'm going to fight to the end, to the end, to the end, and I'm going to ask the national MPs, if that's possible, to increase this whole cost. But I'm telling you again, it's not just a question of money. Maybe last but not least, at the expense. And in the mechanism itself. So you're right that there's no program. That's why I said that by the end of the year, a state-wide strategy for the eradication and destruction of pesticides would be developed. And I assure you that it will be brought not only to areas but to areas and villages. But first of all, the main thing that's happening right now is the inventory of all the pesticides in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u65	Igor Ostaš, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u66	Igor Ostrash, “Reforms and Orders” faction. The constituency. Mr. Secretary, I fully support your position on the many issues you have raised. And I'd like to say this. I was recently in Balaklav. This is really a very paradise corner of Crimea, and I'm really worried about how much serious debris the Black Sea fleet left behind. And this problem is very serious because the pollution of Crimea is, to a large extent, being carried out by the Black Sea fleet. I know there are negotiations between our countries. There is an attempt to sign the corresponding agreements, but I think it's in the city. Is the Ministry involved in this issue, and how will you act in this case? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. I'm very brief, including this issue will stand in the order of the day work of the group led by Vice Prime Minister Immortal in all categories of waste, including those resonant and dangerous as in Balaklav. As far as our ministry is concerned, this is absolutely a fact, that our ministry is only now joining all issues related to international relations. Because I think environmental problems have no limits. And in cooperation, before the first trip. The President of Russia's arrival to Kiev, I've been to this meeting, and it's not just because there's waste in Sevastopol. You see, our inspectors are not allowed to enter the territory. How can you give a real state of affairs if you don't allow yourself to go through and conduct an inspection, go in with your devices and measure what's going on there. So I insist on this and I will stand firm for this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u68	Thank you. Have a seat, please. All right, let's hear it, please. Dear colleagues! It's 12 o'clock, we agreed that we should be informed by the Attorney General, right now I don't see him. That's why. I'll bet you do. Are we going to work or are we going to call it a break? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, according to the information I have, the Attorney General should be around for a minute. So now we're going to be able to listen to the information. Is it possible that the next reporter should start and stop as he leaves? How do you view it? There's a chance in the cameras to get ready, journalists, so there's no "good luck" in there, right? Dear colleagues, I think. Five minutes of breaks are requested. Come on, five minutes off, please. Interested ones, let's get together.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! We're continuing this session, let me prove to you the information that I think should be accepted with the understanding of our colleagues in the faction of the Social-Democratic Party. Now in these moments, there are the necessary procedural actions by the Zacarpathian District Attorney's Office to release John Rizak. So, I don't think the problems that have arisen in the morning, we could have calmed them down. It'll come back. I don't know what the amount of it is, but from now on, I think the amount doesn't really matter, the size of the amount is not a problem for them. Yes, please continue Government Day, that's an interesting part of the break. Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko is the head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, please, we have 10 minutes for information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Honorable members of the government and invited guests! The development of settlements in Ukraine and industrial centres, which have created a large amount of household waste and nearby waste from commercial, industrial, and other businesses, has turned them into one of the most acute economic and environmental problems. In particular, this is the treatment of solid household waste. Every year, about 10 million tons of household waste are formed in Ukraine, and in the per capita age, it's about 0.7 kilograms. More than 60 million tons of household waste are stockpiled in landfills, accounting for about 35 percent. The existing legal base in waste is far from modern requirements, and the methods of dealing with them and the technologies used in Ukraine are, unfortunately, still in Soviet times and do not meet the world's common standards. Most of the nearly 6,000 existing sites have already exhausted their resources and more than three thousand natural garbage dumps have become a factor in human environmental stress. The construction of new TP railway stations in Ukraine is becoming increasingly difficult because of opposition from the local population, environmental protection organizations, and the absence of land allocation practices by local authorities and the provision of guarantees to finance their construction. Only a small amount of household waste was destroyed in the cities of Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv and Sevastopol in the garbage factories built in the 1980s. Today only the Kyiv factory works. The crisis in the economy, which is now independent of Ukraine, has prevented the development of waste management, the introduction of modern methods and technologies. One of the most painful problems in this area is tariff policy. The average tariff for the export and disposal of solid household waste is about 11 dollars per cubic meter, or 46 dollars per tonne. Unfortunately, such a tariff does not provide businesses working in this area with the ability to comply with appropriate technological standards and regulations in the pursuit of their activities. In many cities tariffs have not been reviewed for 5-6 years because they are included in the apartment's salary. During this period, prices for fuel oil, maintenance materials, minimum wages, etc. have increased significantly. As a result, businesses and industries, virtually all of the damage, do not update technology, accumulate debt from wages, and disrupt waste management schedules. For example, the weariness of the garbage park is more than 75 percent, for example, in the Mikolai region, and in Kirovogrady, for example, 100 percent. The cost of dealing with household waste today is 0.1 percent of the average income. Although world practice shows that such costs are equal to one percent or more. And even under such conditions, under such tariffs, the level of pay to the population for export services and the placement of TNPs is 75 percent. The main factors causing this state of affairs are, in our view, no. First of all, it is the failure of the local authorities to comply with the requirements set out in the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government and Housing Services in the area of financing, development and maintenance, the establishment of economically sound tariffs, and the organisation of proper control over the location and use of sites and landfills. I want to give you one very interesting and vivid example. In Kiev last year, more than 3.6 million tons of waste were formed, of which 0.6 million tons fell into the waste treatment plant “Energy”. 1.4 million tons are placed on polygons, and the last 1.6 million tons have just disappeared. That is, small garbage carriers are stationed in a race not to pay for disposal, simply dropping their cargo in parks, forests, and so forth, in violation of environmental legislation. I would also like to draw your attention to the issue of assessing the resource potential of ERW, such as the possibility of using household wastes as secondary raw materials and for energy purposes, as well as the use of polycarbonate gas in large cities in the Kyoto Protocol. A whole series of legislative acts have already been adopted in terms of dealing with ERW, but the existing legal framework in this area is primarily focused on waste disposal and is lagging behind modern world requirements to prove the level of use of household waste as a secondary raw material up to 60 percent of the total. This requires a fundamental change in the approach to the development of the sector, which provides for the solution of waste use, as secondary raw materials, and for energy purposes. As far as legislative provision is concerned, the Ukrainian Waste Act is now fundamental in this area, but it does not deal almost with waste management, in part with the business conditions of residential services operators, including in the area of waste management, as well as the strategic direction of development of the sector as defined by the Housing and Communal Services Act, but I would like to stress again, unfortunately, it is not being implemented today by the local authorities. All issues in this area are planned to be addressed by the Ukrainian Home Waste Act, which the Committee is working on today. This bill should become the law of direct action, legislatively determine the rights and obligations of entities in the field of waste management, legal and organisational principles for improving the quality of services and improving the health and epidemiological state of the population. I would like to remind you that in 2004, the Government approved a solid waste management programme aimed at creating the necessary legal mechanisms to ensure full collection and transport, disposal, disposal and disposal of household wastes and to limit their harmful effects on the environment and human health. In order to implement the Committee's actions, work has already begun on the development of the necessary legal acts. Recently, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on the well-being of population centres, which in particular establishes requirements for the management of solid household wastes and sanitary treatment of population sites on market grounds. In addition, the Committee has developed a national strategy for the management of solid wastes in Ukraine through the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. National strategy, like a software document, provides guidance for local executives and local self-government authorities on technical development, minimization of waste generation, improvement of utilization levels, and identification of financial and institutional development in the area of the treatment of ERW. I mean, there's no doubt that Ukrainian garbage dumps are waiting for their investor today. And there's this sphere at all. The sorting, processing and disposal of household waste are the most attractive spheres of activity for businessmen from all over the world. One of the ways in which business trash is to set up private sites for the storage of TPAs. For example, 30% of the European ranges are private. In Ukraine, the private polygons of the unit. For example, in the city of Brovary. There are risks to developing this business in Ukraine. It's primarily a large initial capital investment and a high credit rate, it's a waste-business waste-related waste-management cost-effectiveness, it's certainly an unpredictable and, to a certain extent, a populism of local government authorities regarding the relationship to business structures in the service market in this area. This is a lack of control over local authorities and local self - government in compliance with the rules of law. Yes, regardless of the deregulation of the powers of central and local authorities and local self-government authorities with regard to government regulation in the field of waste management, as defined in the laws of Ukraine on waste, on “Pro waste”, on “Restoration of Sanitary Control”, on “For Local Administrations and Local Self-Government”, public authorities are ineffectively taking steps to prevent environmental violations on sites, landfills, including natural ones. The lack of effective supervision by officials in the business sector contributes to their irresponsibility and the desire to transfer these responsibilities to the shoulders of the State. The problem of household waste exists, is exacerbated, and requires concrete action at the national and local levels. In particular, in the near future, it is necessary, in our view, at a national level, to introduce market mechanisms in this area, using world experience. First of all, it is the legislative consolidation of the practice of “polluter-payer”, to make changes to the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity by referring the garbage to the commercial position of “cars of special purpose”. At the local level, you need to review the tariff policy in the area of waste management, implement the separation and collection of household waste ingredients, create conditions for private business to be involved in the management of household wastes, strengthen the control of businesses of all forms of property working in this area. The committee expects that joint efforts to support the Supreme Council will be carried out in a positive manner. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u72	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Yeah, let's probably cut to 15 minutes, because we're gonna have to talk about it. Yeah, we're just gonna take notes? Please sign up. Please, on board for 15 minutes. Mihovich Ivan, Jaroslav Suhi, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u73	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Alexi Yuriovich! Everyone understands the state of Ukrainian housing and utility. People don't get caught up in people's lives and trying to boost the pay of utilities, tariffs, and so on. Recycling, sanitation, and all other problems are highly dependent on this area. Do you see real steps, ways to strengthen the capacity of local councils, financial, legal, organizational, to fight at least what they can actually do, by making basic sanitation in the community? After all, Uzhgrad, once a clean city, and many other settlements today are also becoming garbage dumps. What are the real ways that you can see at least at this level without global problems?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. In fact, it is absolutely right. I would like to say that, first of all, I believe that the legislative framework that exists today creates conditions for us to work more effectively. Sadly, we live in such an interesting country when we have enough laws. Unfortunately, they don't work. As far as your question is concerned. So I think the state needs to be clear about the direction of government and support and the channelling of government funds into investment. I'm convinced that the mechanism or the compensation of loans for investment loans or the financing of a separate congregation system is what the state can partially take on. With regard to local authorities and local government administrations, I am more than convinced that only we need to make more control. I want to give you an example like this. We spoke to Minister Ignatenko. One car that took the garbage into the landing area will pay up to 86 dollars a fine. And on the range, he has to pay 26 dollars on condition. So three cars, one in three cars, he can throw it into the environment. This has to be a much tougher responsibility for these structures. And that's exactly where I'm sure we should be moving, because we don't have the ability to retreat anymore, because it's really becoming an ecological and catastrophic problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u75	Jaroslav Suhi, please follow him, Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u76	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the political party “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Alexy Yuryovich, I and the faction are certainly in solidarity with you on the need to find alternative sources of financing for a wide range of housing and utilities issues. In this regard, two such questions. Your view of the idea of demonopolization or decentralization of household waste issues in our cities. For example, the city council of a city, such as Zaporozhye, could announce a tender among companies who would like to compete in the matter by making money. And in this regard, the second proposal that comes out of the first one. How do you feel about removing the cost of waste from the total cost of housing and waste tariffs, and let specific authorized companies deal with waste issues so that we don't impose such tariffs on people. Let them pay, for example, for what. So if two of these ideas were to be implemented together, would we move the matter out of place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u77	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, as far as the concept of decentralization is concerned, I want to say very briefly -- this is totally consistent with our ideology of reforming the housing and utility spheres and the waste management plans and other sub-sectors. And in the near future, I think we will be able to propose to society a new, updated concept of reforming the HKG, which is exactly what decentralization of this process is going to mean. With regard to the authority of the local authorities to carry out tenders, they still have authority today. But let's agree, we know the specifics of the Zaporozhye region and we know that unfortunately, Zaporozhye City has not been occupied and the city authorities have not been engaged in tariffs either in waste management or in any other direction. So this direction was very uninvestmentary and the tenders could be announced at least every day -- no one would come to these tenders. That is why we support this ideology, but we need local authorities to understand their responsibility first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u78	But behind the waste of Zaporozhye's steel struggle there went the wheeze.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u79	Adam Ivanovich, this is some other waste and no Jaroslav Mikhailovich good.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u80	I understand. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u81	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Sir, of course, from two reports we have heard that the country is completely collapsing and the way out of this is not yet visible. I propose a way out, I suggest that your attention be fixed to water treatment and non-infection sewage systems, which are made on the basis of sound electromagnetic equipment that allows you to clean up, to give up water chlorination, to cut costs by 3.5 times the cost of this, to improve this water and to destroy, and bacteria, and to destroy fat and restore water as it is done around all civilized countries. Are you developing a drinking water economy problem that washes our toilets today? That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u82	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, well, if I'm going to say something about the global concept of a quick solution to this problem. If there was such a person in Ukraine, I want to say that society should immediately, as a minimum, put this person on the Nobel Prize. Well, it's such a friendly joke, because, of course, what I'm saying about specific technical decisions, our Ukrainian tech genius allows us to say that we have the development of a world level. But they will never be applied and implemented until this sector is bankrupt. Because there's no other source, and you're honourable deputies, you'll be reviewing the State Budget project in no time. You know the state of the local budgets and you know that there is no such source for today. That's why I don't know any other way than to go out into this field at least for self-reliance, but in principle, and for normal constant development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u83	Please, Mikhailo Ratushny. Anatoly Frost is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u84	Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian National Party I agree with these colleagues that the garbage situation, the waste in Ukraine, if not catastrophic, is quite critical. But I'm interested in the question, maybe not paradoxically, that all over the world waste processing is a pretty profitable kind of business. Why do we understand that, we are boldly launching this private investment capital that would make money here. Why it's going so slowly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Mikhailo, really, if you speak the normal logic of people, the whole world is making money on this, and we don't have anything. And I'm not claiming to do a completely detailed analysis today, and we're willing to analyze on the round tables why this money doesn't go, but I counted it in my report. First. Actually, there is no investment climate in Ukraine today that we dreamed of and dreamed of, unfortunately. It's different. Once again, the tariffs don't cover the costs. And there's a manager on the balcony who's practically the first private structure in Kiev to implement this waste treatment complex, but unfortunately, he's working with damage today. He only looks forward to understanding the city’s authority that it will still provide it with tariff policies, for these wastes need to be proved. Today, in Kiev at Spetkomuntras, shipping tariffs are twice as low as their cost. Twice below. There's 40 copies a liter of gas in there. Six-year tariffs are laid down. And by the way, I want to say that Kiev has been literally on strike for the last two weeks. Negotiations are under way, and the matter will soon be resolved. So is the problem in Bloody Rose, that's the problem in the sums. So that's the second question. Question three. If cities really want to solve this problem, it has to be on some kind of extended terms, on clear contractual terms, to set up a site for the range so that an investor can go in there and invest his money. I think that in the near future, this experience of the Brewers will be able to be analyzed and understood in what way the investor was actually involved. Here's all these complexes, not a complete list of all the problems, but it's all creating an area that the investor's not going to yet. And we have, to be honest, today we're getting the buzz out of the bowl. Because this is the collection of paper, paper, the collection of other very valuable things there -- it doesn't really solve the problem. This does not solve the problem. We just choose from the total amount of garbage that we can sell quickly, and the rest of the problems, it lies on the shoulders of the community, on the shoulders of society. So here only joint constructive actions with the local government, with the community, with the public under control can really create conditions for private investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u86	Anatoly Frost, please. Eugene Gorenik is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u87	Anatoly Moroz, 83 Mikhail’s constituency, Zaporez. Dear Alexy Yuryovich, you know that I've addressed you on several occasions, and I'm the electorate of my Zaporozhye region, all the more so, it's close to you, I think, and I'm familiar with the problem of solving the export of household waste. Unfortunately, I'll tell you that the question, I'm tired of calling your predecessors, and in this vocation, and today you and the inhabitants of the Wessel district, the Mikhail district, the Tokmatic district, the city of Tokmak are turning from. , transport, it's already run out of 2-3. And if we don't fix this situation in the near future, we're really going to sink in these piles of household trash and so on. Is there anything in the department to solve this problem? I look and think, "Well, maybe then why do we need this state structure that can't decide anything because there's no money."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u88	That's a good question. In principle, there's something I agree with you, especially the last thesis. I, by the way, about this kind of thesis yesterday at a government meeting, which, if, in fact, there's no funding for any state programs, why this state structure? That's the point. But on the other hand, I would like to emphasize once again that I am convinced that you and I, MPs, and the government have not learned to use the money effectively today. I'm convinced that for every bracelet of government investment we have to invest 5 or 7 dollars of private investment. Please consider how the Supreme Council and the government have distributed 420 million of these subsidies to the regions. When the government budget is used to repair specific buildings, repairs are made to specific boilerhouses. I can assure you, this is an inefficient use of these reserves. That's why we've proposed to the government today our financial strategy to build so that we can stimulate regional authorities and regional investment projects primarily by compensating interest on loans. This will be absolutely fair and what we can actually do today. There will be an initiative under local authority and there will be a competition for these investment projects. As for the Zaporozhye region, I already said to Mr. Jaroslav Sukhoma that if we didn't do any tariffs, we didn't have to invest there. It's just going to be in the sand we're going to throw the money again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u89	Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u90	Eugene Hoernik, “Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists”. Dear Alexei Yuriovich, there were at least two of these in your report. That the population doesn't pay for the shipment of garbage while there's a sufficient legislative basis to make the waste order. Well, I have two questions about that. Garbage is the kind of thing that stops people every day. And the greenhouses, the gasses, the power plants, they're making rounds and they're making the population pay. Why don't you take steps to isolate this ingredient -- take out the trash, so people know what they're paying for, and they feel it every day. That's the first question. And about the legislative base. Two years ago, there were attempts to create a waste codex. There have been attempts on the part of a group of deputies to adopt legislation to suit the operators who are carrying the package. Why is this not all done? Where, after all, standards that would.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u91	I see. Thank you for asking. I think it's a perfectly and correct question in the sense that, as an alternative to including the payment for the disposal of household waste, we are considering today, and this is covered by the draft Wastes Act, which we are working on in the near future, the introduction of a special local congregation. And then every community has to make it clear that in this life in Kiev it costs a person in terms of garbage production, and we're unfortunately with you people, and we're making it in the course of our lives, it costs so much, taking into account shoulders, kilometers of cars, taking into account the average wage and all that. Living in Zitomir costs something else. That's what we're going to propose, and that's what we're going to see in the law that we're talking about. As far as the Housing Services Act is concerned. Just about a year ago, June 23, if I'm not mistaken, was adopted by a beautiful, Supreme Council, the Housing and Utilities Act, which envisioned the principle of the thing: housing and utility tariffs are set by local authorities. If they do not compensate for their cost, the manager of the enterprise has the opportunity, through the court, to withdraw the delta from the local budget. But there is one last problem, who appoints this business manager? It's this local government. That's why we don't know, there's no such experience that the heads of utilities through the court try to comply with the Housing Services Act. That's why we're saying today that let the local authorities, by regulating the function, keep tariffs behind them, but this sector needs to be included in the private sector in order to be relatively independent so that it can defend its economic interests through all civil court procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u92	Thank you, Alexi Juryovich. Sit down, please. You have a situation, but unfortunately, it's costless, but unfortunately, it's not. From the committee head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Rudenko Hennady Borisovich. Please plan for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u93	Good day, distinguished national MPs, respected members, I don't know, government or temporary Urdu. It is a pleasure to meet with officials in an assessment of a situation that is unsatisfactory. What are we talking about? The polygons, dumps, shelters, glamonics, terricones -- this whole problem is 165,000 hectares in Ukraine -- that's about four percent of Ukraine's territory. Thus, some felt that Ukraine could soon be transformed into a complete garbage dump. Yes, there is a chance, that is, you can start this competition. That's one of the biggest indicators, I said, four percent of the territory takes up all kinds of waste, the biggest indicator in the world, probably. And I want to give you some facts: there are 32 kilograms of waste per thousand dollars of GDP in the leading countries of the European Union, there are 124 kilograms of waste in Poland, there are 324, in Hungary, and in Ukraine we are leaders: 15,000 kilograms per thousand dollars of GDP. These numbers are an estimate, I repeat, that we're dealing with with government officials: not enough. It lies on all of us, it's not just a government problem, it's a problem of MPs, local self-government, penal authorities. In the United States and the EU, the problem of garbage is, in general, a truly civilized way of reprocessing most of the waste. In the West, it's clear that apart from problems, it's a pretty good resource that actually saves energy, processing secondary raw materials improves the environment. Well, as for our irrational approach to waste management, of course we already have an environmental crisis, but we're looking at an even bigger crisis because there's a significant underfunding for this area. The concept of waste legislation and application practices is intended to implement, unfortunately, in Ukraine the principle of payment of waste disposal rather than to stimulate the inclusion of waste for secondary processing. The Waste Act does not disclose legal and economic regulation in the area of the inclusion of waste in the agricultural trade as additional sources of raw material. Ukraine does not develop market relations in the area of congregation, food and industrial waste use as secondary resources, although the developed countries of the world have already achieved that 50 to 70 percent of the waste production and consumption goes into reuse. This practice, if created in Ukraine, will allow us to create a huge number of jobs that our President has been talking about, so, Mr. President, pay attention to this. The high level of waste use in European countries has been achieved due to the implementation in EU countries of the principle of producer responsibility for the collection and processing of individual products after their use. It is appropriate to note that in no country of the world has it been possible to create the conditions for income from separate waste collection. And that's why the state, through the adoption of appropriate legislation, encourages businesses to address the problem of eliminating the load of waste, reducing the load of waste on the environment. Well, what do we have? The 2005 Budget Act on Budgeting and Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Act, 2004 has abolished the benefits provided for cash-for-profit enterprises to pay added-value taxes and income taxes for businesses in the field. As a result, the production and collection of waste, as a secondary raw material, has become unprofitable, the rate of waste collection as secondary raw materials have declined. Cashiers, whose main activity is to collect and prepare waste as secondary raw materials, faced the threat of bankruptcy and from the 1,500 manufacturing companies in Ukraine, who have ceased to operate more than 100 businesses. This is a reduction of 6 percent of jobs over 600, actually, jobs. At the same time, as early as October 2002, Kabmin was expected to prepare legislative acts that, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act of Amendment to certain Ukrainian legislation on waste, would regulate and stimulate economic activity in the area of secondary mineral resources. I would like to point out that the absence of legally defined economic mechanisms to stimulate this activity is one of the reasons for the annual increase in the number of wastes in Ukraine. The Cabinet decision of 26 July 2001 established 915 a financial and economic mechanism that allows additional financial resources to be used in the form of payment by subjects of entrepreneurial activities that produce and import products in packaging and packaging for services and collection, sorting, transport, processing and disposal of the used packaging to which their products were packaged. But this normative act largely contradicts market relations, including the dominant position of Ucreco. resources in this field in Ukraine. And the administrative weights in the administration of the used packaging, too, I can say that in 2002-2004 Ukr. He took the resources, collected almost 200 million dollars. And I'd like government officials to report on the results of the use of these funds as soon as possible. The amount of waste involved, as secondary raw materials in the agricultural cycle, did not increase at the expense of this factor, is our conclusion. And improvements. It didn't happen. As a result, there is a rapid increase in the number and variety of solid household wastes in Ukraine, usually the majority of which consists of packaging waste. Today it is urgent to create a regulatory framework for the development of secondary resource market infrastructure, a competitive system for the collection, processing and disposal of packaging waste. In dealing with household waste, I would like to place a solid pair first of all, the authorities of the state’s environmental control and the sanitary epidemiological surveillance of the removal of environmental violations on the slopes and dumps, including natural ones, which are so proud of China. Perhaps in this context it is worth noting the experience of Sevastopol, where for the first time a program of urban sanitation was developed, taking into account the population of ecological capacity criteria and the impact of socio-economic factors. In terms of waste ownership, attention should be paid to the fact that according to the Nadra Code, as mentioned by the Minister of State, all wastes of mining, wealth, and processing of mineral raw materials that are studied, evaluated and recognized as being of industrial importance are related to the technogeneous species of beneficial fossils. They are part of the State Fund for Beneficial Fossils of Ukraine, used in the order set out in the Ukrainian Nadra Code. That is, it is the property of the people of Ukraine. In the territory of Ukraine, it was also reported that 1,500 sites of waste were located, which could potentially be referred to as technological sites in accordance with the Nadra Code. Only 630 of them were surveyed and counted as prospective. Twelve have been thoroughly studied and stocked with them. Only five are being developed. The real treasure of addressing fiscal deficits and social problems in society should be the full use of raw and resource potential with the participation of the State in waste processing. So this is about active development based on the technological genealogy of the waste industry. So I'm going to prove this by taking the waste of a mining complex. In December last year, the Supreme Council adopted the Act “Consequent to making changes to article 4 of Ukraine’s Waste Act, in which millions of tons of waste from the mining and metallurgical complex were compared to scrap metal, which deprived the budget of significant conservation revenues. The likely underlying of the corrupt interest in the adoption of this law is the elimination of almost 52 million tons of mining waste, which on average contains up to 30 percent of iron. That's about 15 million tons of metalworks, which at the price of metal scraps, 700 dollars per tonne is about 10.5 billion dollars. These are direct budget losses. And now we're going to count the state's share in processing 30 billion tons of waste that we said were in Ukraine. Even 10 percent of the cost of processing them can give you an order of 20 billion dollars in the budget. These costs would be sufficient to cover the full cost of warning the negative impact of waste on the environment and public health. The Cabinet of Ministers’ activities are largely declarative and do not solve the waste problem. They lack specificity and consistency in making decisions. Waste disposal is primarily toxic and not suitable for pesticide use in all regions. I do not share the optimism of the Minister that in 2006 we will close this problem, there are no funds for this, unfortunately. If we talk about toxic waste management, it's probably going to be lost next year, we see it from the draft budget. To reduce environmental impacts, all other wastes are likely to be spent this year because this year, unfortunately, the environmental fund does not finance much. And the government needs to intervene in solving this problem. The committee has repeatedly asked the government for a state fund to deal with radioactive waste, and there is a law. Sadly, though, our appeals remain unheard of. And I express the hope that the new government will change its attitude towards the problem of dealing with radioactive waste, which is quite serious in Ukraine. I want to support the critical questions about our colleagues from the National Security Committee in the Pavlovgrad Hymzad. You and I have witnessed the tragedy of the Novogoddanovka and the Pavlovgrad Hemzavode where the meetings of our committee have been created with serious powers for the disposal of ammunition, but unfortunately, I think it's corruption by the Ministry of Defense. The Pavlovgrad chemical plant is not actually loaded with this problem. And his powers are on. Percentage It's a disgrace, unfortunately, to the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u94	Thank you, Hennady Borisovich, sit down, please. Yes, let's begin the discussion. Let's take, let's take, at least, 40 minutes. Yes, first by three minutes, the factions, then by the list, i.e. the authorized factions. Anatoly Frost, faction “Go, Ukraine!” to prepare Savitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u95	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Anatoly Moroz, 83rd Mikhailov constituency, Zaporin district, faction “Go, Ukraine!” Honorable colleagues, members of a temporary or transitional government. I am. I don't know how to say it today, but what we're looking at in this room today is an extremely important problem, and I'm thinking those questions, and the answers of the minister, or the deputy minister and other government officials, are telling us that we're in this room, on this issue, probably unanimous. Because this problem, the problem of disposal and so on, the destruction, the recycling of the wastes that we've been talking about today is extremely important for our country, for our Ukraine. I work for the Industrial Policy Committee, and almost every session we face this problem, this particular problem. And we're trying to do something to solve this problem somehow. I can only give one example. In the territory of Svetłovodsk, we looked at the state-owned factory “Calculator” at the Committee. Remains of the USSR military and industrial complex. This question was discussed in the opening session, directed to the government their proposals and so forth, but it is said that the solution to this problem is today, the visa and now there. The plant is stocked, stored up to 400 meters [400 m] of cubic liquids, and up to 10 tons of solid toxic waste from Galvanic manufacturing of the 2.4th class of hazard. These wastes are stored in partially damaged containers, standstills, and bunkers, aggressive toxic wastes have also increased in connection with a significant storage deadline, and they need to be processed and disposed of immediately after further burial on a special site. This dangerous environmental bomb can lead to an environmental catastrophe at the state level of regulation and can cause damage, which can cost much more than the cost of disposal. But unfortunately, as you can see, we always act: until the thunder warms up, until we get ahead, and then when it gets warm, as it was in Novo Bogdanówka, Luhansk and so on, until we start doing something about this problem. I could bring another problem. On the committee, we looked at the Gorlov Chemical Plant -- it's the main manufacturer of the masculine military and civilian trotile in Ukraine. By 2001, due to the absence of a government order from the Ministry of Defence, production had stopped. To say that the situation in this factory is very difficult. Experts estimate that some 6 million dollars are needed to eliminate this problem, or we will also have a very big problem. All the problems, of course, have to be solved. President Yushchenko Viktor Andryovich, in Zaporozhye region, spoke of the 2006 budget as a village budget. If you look at this problem, you might want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u96	Thank you. Valentin Savitsky, faction of the People's Party. He will be followed by Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, distinguished officials! Perhaps no one needs to be convinced that the waste management system plays a key role in addressing environmental safety and resource conservation. The solution to this problem has received special attention, both as a result of the considerable amount of their creation and because of the lack of an adequate response to the danger posed by them. In Ukraine, there is a catastrophic amount of waste that causes environmental degradation and directly affects the safety of the population. At 160,000 hectares, I want to draw attention once again, and it's estimated that more than 27 billion tons of waste is actually equal to 550 tons of various dangerous mass per person. At present, waste use as secondary resources does not exceed five percent and decreases year after year when 12 percent of the total is processed in the Soviet Union. The absence of effective economic mechanisms, the involvement of waste in the agricultural process, has led to the halting of the process of creating proper waste infrastructure. The People’s Party’s faction believes that this situation is due to the absence of a special body of executives in waste management, which causes the proper lack of coordination in this area; the imperfections of the mechanism of control and responsibility for the fulfilment of the requirements of legislation and regulations on waste management, which are not responsible for the breach of legislation. All these problems will be solved by the creation of such a special control body. The solution to waste treatment and disposal is without overestimating the security issue of Ukraine. A single and very narrow focus from both the government and the parliament needs to be addressed on dealing with the most dangerous wastes in Ukraine, to which pesticides are not suitable. The faction of the People's Party believes that the highest priority in our time and the highest priority of the state is: the creation of a special government executive body on waste management that would fully ensure the implementation of the basic principles of public policy in this area. And that could be the state company Ucrereresources. The development and implementation of a series of legal acts that met all the principles of European legislation in this area. Conducting an organisational and economic mechanism and creating a science and technology tool for waste management in Ukraine. Creating a domestic manufacturing base for specialized waste management equipment And today the first three sorting lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u98	Thank you, Valentin. The job will then show itself. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”. Prepare Anatoly Grzezhev, Soccer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, in the absence of time, I would like to touch only one problem of those who are worthy of consideration on today’s Government Day. Undoubtedly, one of the most painful problems, both economically and socially, is the problem of metallurgy. It's created by artificial and seemingly market conditions, and in fact, in fact, by imperfect legislation and malicious failure to comply with laws, usually in places. This is about the need to organize entrepreneurial activities from metallurgy. An analysis of the practice of metallurgy and the state of supply of raw materials to domestic metallurgical enterprises, such as Zaporzik, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, and others, shows the need to make some changes to existing legislation that regulate secondary metal activities. What is the purpose of making such changes? First, the potential for the formation of a metal fund in Ukraine is reduced by annual exports to 80-85% of the metal product produced in the country. Second, the cost of cooking and metallurgy is increasing. And third, there are structural changes in the metallurgy market’s network. It can be noted that there are two groups of companies in the metal trade market today -- companies that have their own production capacity to provide for the processing of scrap metal and businesses that rent wholly or partly manufacturing areas, premises and equipment. A large part of those companies that are renters actually do commercial-mediated transactions with scrap metal without completely processing it. The appropriate level of radiation control, explosive, fire control and, especially, of concern to citizens, criminal security is significantly worse compared to the performance of metal scrap metal manufacturing companies. In this context, in order not to allow the bill to be promised later, we would ask Kabmin, the government, to initiate amendments to Ukraine's "On Metal Break" Act as a mandatory requirement for specialized enterprises, to have the necessary capacity to produce. In addition, the “Regions of Ukraine” considers it appropriate to amend the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax to exempt transactions from taxation from the implementation of black and colour metals in the customs territory of Ukraine and export operations outside the export territory of Ukraine of waste and scrap of black and colour metals, thereby reducing VAT returns to exporters. In general, in the session room, we repeatedly tried to set things straight. We know how many complaints there are today, not only in the community, but also in the citizenry, but also in our manufacturing factories, because metal scraps are being exported and collected, especially without control, uncontrollable, causing enormous damage to both the economy and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u100	Thank you. Anatoly Grzezhev the faction of Soccer, followed by Yuri Shirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u101	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues and respected Adam Ivanovich. The problems we are dealing with are clearly essential and relevant, for it directly affects the level of environmental security of the determinant of the great health and well-being of the nation. However, the analysis of the socio-economic viability of our community shows that trends in waste accumulation and processing are negative. The main one is: the total accumulation of waste is virtually non-decreasing. It's huge, and in some years it's fixed. And the second. The level of recycling and disposal of all types of waste remains low. Two factors, according to specialists, are the socialists, the most significant, which should determine the public policy on waste management. The Socialist Party of Ukraine determines its attitude towards environmental issues on the basis of its programme policies. In view of the enormous number of problems in this area, I will focus only on some. The approach should be uniform – systemic. It is simply impossible to build politics without it. That is, all spheres and factors must be taken into account. However, urgent attention must be paid to the establishment of a material base for the industry, collection, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste. More than 70 per cent of the material base in this area cannot be accepted. Such a state threatens to create catastrophic situations. Regrettably, it must be noted that the Government as a whole and the executive bodies on the ground are often irresponsible in addressing this issue. A strong example of this is the 2005 budget allocation for this purpose. They're miserable and they can't stabilize the situation. The current waste management technology requires major improvements. But today they do not conform to universally accepted world standards and there are problems. Many scientists, experts make their proposals, but they tend to ignore them. As a result, we can face the fact that scientists will become available abroad and we will have to pay three times for them. We have been approached by the leaders of the Quark Research Centre, by experts from the Institute of Electrodynamics on these issues, and I ask the Government once again to address these issues and to take positive action. In general, the Socialist faction will support the draft decree given to you and will also encourage you to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u102	Thank you. I can see that Yuri Shirko, but only I turned my attention away from the computer as new records appeared. Yuri Shirko, please, from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Sergey Shevchuk will follow him. Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian National Party
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u103	Honorable MPs, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, respected citizens of Ukraine! The waste management situation was terrible, and it was noted by both the officials and the committee heads, and the acting deputies. This is true of all kinds of waste and household waste that litters all the forests around the populated areas, all the banks of rivers and lakes, and other waterways, and the roadside. This also applies to hazardous wastes — toxic chemicals that are found in the open sky by tons and are washed away during the rain, soaked in groundwater, and polluted our soil. There are many reasons for this discontent. This is also a low level of environmental education. Because you can't put a policeman's bush around it to keep the trash from being dumped. It is also a lack of the will of local self - government, which is directly responsible for handling wastes in a controlled area. It's also a lack of accepted projects and a lack of funding to solve the problem of disposal. As representatives of the Ukrainian People's Party, we see a way out of this situation: 1) above all, we need to take steps to separate wastes from the use as secondary raw materials; 2) reduce the number of landfills and landfills at the expense of recycling, because Europe has already said that the number of wastes that are disposed of on landfills and garbage dumps has been reduced hundreds of times to ensure or prevent the transformation of our state into a general waste dump; 3) we need to ensure a clear execution of hazardous waste management programmes, first of all, of jachemics; (4) we need to implement technologies that are considered by the treatment of these poisons; and for this, first of all, we need to ensure the financial execution of these programs; (5) we need to take steps to prevent the introduction of wastes into the highest levels of the government, which are the highest levels of income generated by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see some cards are being collected. We need to make a decision. You have to make a decision. Yes, please, Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Block Timoshenko. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u105	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party, “Cobor”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We propose to consider this important issue because of the prism of the requirements of an international instrument to which our nation has joined, particularly the Or.L. Convention. I would like to remind you that this convention gives citizens the right to an environmentally friendly environment, which is, firstly, the right to information about ecosystems, secondly, the right to participate in environmentally important decisions, and thirdly, the right to access justice on environmental issues. Let's look at these three aspects. During the period since the convention took effect in Ukraine, there has been no clear system of dissemination of environmental information on the state of the environment, on environmental and health factors, on human living conditions, and on public policies in this field, and on environmental legislation. For the general public, especially in the regions, there's no information available on the dynamics of emissions from polluting enterprises, where they live, the state of air, water, soil, natural objects, biodiversity and so on. Today the public only knows that only our mountain, the famous Goverla, is housed after a well - known campaign, but we know that there are no people living there. The second question about public participation in environmental decision-making is that it best describes such an example, is the storage of unsuitable pesticides. In the vast majority, they are preserved by violating existing environmental and sanitation requirements. Their storage conditions are rapidly deteriorating. Twenty thousand tons of unfit or banned pesticides are stored on nearly 5,000 agrochemicals. And a third of the buildings that contain unsuitable pesticides and packaging in which they are stored are in poor condition. Public participation in decision-making, particularly in representative bodies, in local authorities is unfortunately minimal. And the third. This is public access to justice, to court decisions on these issues. Again, the fact that only 80 protocols have been passed on to the courts in less than five years on violations of legislation, 180 law enforcement agencies on violations. In fact, a total of 27 people were called to account. So on these three elements, we can say that the situation is really tense. The BUT faction believes that urgent steps should be taken to significantly improve the situation and to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution regarding the safe environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u106	Thank you. Our Ukraine faction, Yuri Karmazin, will be followed by Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u107	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Today, in the reports that have been made, they are of great concern to us, of course, the entire faction of “Our Ukraine”, to me, as a representative of the Party of Protectors of India, and I want to tell you that the failure to comply with the requirements of the laws that have been reported today in the field of waste management in Ukraine has a clear question to ask us: “Is everything done in these cases to establish responsibility?” The responsibility established by the Criminal Code has not yet been applied in practice. I'm referring to a violation of criminal cases involving imports of dangerous chemicals from Hungary by the Azores company, 1.5 tons, under the form of raw material, a premix for the rubber industry, the IMF companies that were imported, no one has yet been planted, no one has been attracted or shown. The faction therefore asks that those who imported and thus polluted Ukraine be brought to criminal responsibility. One. The other one. We insist on the involvement of a complex of scientific developments of the country's scientists, particularly those aimed at the processing of water and wastewater, which are in particular in the study of new methods that Ukrainian scientists today offer, including sound electromagnetic applications of equipment. Next. In preparing the draft Ukrainian Act on the State Budget, which is currently being developed, the government should be provided for in accordance with those laws that are adopted: “For waste”, “For value added tax”, – to preserve special order and to introduce special order of taxation of operations for the processing of individual wastes. It's supposed to be convenient in society -- to process waste, it has to be stimulated. And other things. Those numbers that have been heard today that we have four percent of the area under waste and dumps, they don't match the reality. In fact, we only have these areas in Kiev a lot more. And that's why we need to clearly develop a state program for reprocessing them. We, the Party of Protectors of the Motherland, warned that these wastes left by the Black Sea fleet, we had developed even such an expedition directed, people dived watching where they were buried and how. It's a colossal crime before society. We have to ask questions at the diplomatic level about compensation to us, including the Russian Federation, the damage that has been done, because they are the successors, they have taken over everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u108	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] And we'll start with the lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u109	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, there are two things that need to be noted: that waste is the source of budget funding. The second is waste, their disposal is huge money, it's a huge temptation for those who do their disposal, who do their processing and who do their transport. Analytical materials claim that there are no public authorities and controls in the areas of conduct, resulting in significant environmental and economic damage to the State. I see. But what has been done to bring them in? Nothing. The latest executive document dedicated to this waste group is in 2003. It is understandable, for it is written that the burden of making decisions and financing is virtually entirely placed on the local authorities. Why wouldn't that be an option for the government? The local budgets are going to last us all, and the local authorities are still able, in fact, to make wise decisions, of course, in paws. I can give you an example of Lviv. Today, there are about 500,000 so - called sour gums in Lviv. But Lvivšina, with easy hands, including the local authorities of the state administration of ecology and natural resources, the district administration, at full silence from the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Prosecutor's Office, decides to import an additional three thousand tons of neutralized Hudrons through the firm.” Yes, as part of the experiment, no one is saying that the experimental burning of these gourds over Lviv will allow an additional two tons of arsenic to be poured into the territory of Lviv. No one talks about health at all. Because then, for these extra Hungarian gourds, Hungary gives us $2 million in technology. You can imagine, that's just how they got in and out. It's enough to note that according to the Ukrainian waste classification, the acids refer to the 4th class of toxicity. Acid gourds are an extremely serious environmental problem, as indicated by previous premixtures, which are now only for those people who raise the problem at Zakarpat. However, the flow of toxins from Hungary does not stop in both Lviv and Zakartat, and it will not stop because article 36 of the Waste Act has been removed, which prohibits the importation into Ukraine of waste for the purpose of storing or decommissioning it. And cross-border transport is now regulated by paragraph 17 of this law, which requires only a cross-border transfer licence, which is a significant reduction in legislation in the regulation of cross-border transport. As long as there is no criminal responsibility and until those responsible are punished for harmful activities around the environment and the health of the people, we will have no escape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u110	Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction, followed by Yuri Solomatine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u111	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. We probably need to move from environmental issues long ago to active activities in the economics of industrial and agricultural production. Creating conditions for survival and ensuring a decent standard of living for the population. As long as we speak good words about ecology, Ukraine sinks into garbage dumps that cause irreparable harm to people’s health. In six months, for example, about 19,000 tons of harmful substances were thrown into the air in the city of Kirov. In some areas of the region, this negative process has increased ninefold. It's a terrible disaster, but even more so, we don't care about everything that's going on around us and walking through a pile of garbage. However, there is something about foreigners that pains the soul for us, and they have begun to solve our environmental problem. In Kirovgrad, Czech investors want to fight the garbage dump, and Austrians will be providing quality drinking water. How is the local authorities not ashamed?Oh, my God! She can’t seem to be able to put order in her home. As a result, there has been an increase in specific infectious diseases, including outbreaks of viral hepatitis. How much? toxic chemicals stores are located in villages and cities and there is no work to be done to dispose of them. Let us ask each one of us: What are we breathing? For example, in Kirovograd, on every residential area of the car, there is little air pollution, and all of this remains unpunished. Counting environmental problems is simply not enough time. One conclusion is that the view of the future is sad and threatening. In a word, disaster! Where's the Ministry? National Environmental Fund? What, there is no disaster for them? As it turns out, they only get their wages and hold round tables. The Communists have repeatedly warned that both the old and the new authorities do not care who destroys spirituality, who steals and rips apart parts of the country, and many people in Ukraine are confident that only the establishment of the principles of social justice, the idea of socialism, the coming to power of new people not associated with Yuschenko, Timoshenko, and Frost can change the state of affairs in the country and put it at risk of disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u112	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Behind him is Ivan Migovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u113	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! As a result of the long - term inadequate government, the shortcomings in the legislative and regulatory frameworks in waste management, the negative impact of the resulting and accumulated waste on human health and the environment continues to increase. Time calls for a radical change in attitudes toward waste management, which requires improvements in legislation. To deal effectively with waste management problems in Ukraine, the Communist faction offers the Cabinet of Ministers: First. Develop and, by 1 January 2006, amend the Ukrainian Supreme Council's "On Wastes" Act to provide for, first and foremost, the prohibition of importing hazardous wastes into Ukraine for the purpose of storing, destroying or dumping them. Obligation to dispose of packaging waste, use of motor vehicles, tyres, chemical sources of electricity, large household appliances, and so forth. Establishing measures of responsibility, including criminal offences in the field of waste management. And adequate damage to the environment and health of the population. Fitting articles and regulations into a series of codes and legislation in Ukraine. The other one. To undertake a thorough analysis of the Ukrainian Act on the General State Programme for the Treatment of Toxic Wastes, and to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 1 March 2006 a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the State-wide Programme for the Treatment of Toxic Wastes by 2010 taking into account the requirements of the Ukrainian Code of Masters for the Law on State Objectives. To develop and, by 1 March 2006, submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code on Nadra, on the right of ownership of technological genealogy and the responsibility of the enterprise for the disposal, disposal and disposal of waste, which is established by the Ukrainian Waste Act. Develop a mechanism to ensure the disposal and disposal of pesticides and agrochemicals that are unfit for use. Taking into account the Government Day, the Communist faction evaluates the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in ensuring effective implementation of public policy in waste management, which is unsatisfactory. Please support our position and, above all, improve existing legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u114	Ivan Mihovich, a faction of Communists, prepare Yuri the Ripper.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u115	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Adam Ivanovich, fellow MPs, distinguished members of yesterday's new government, invited and guests, let's look at today's extremely important, acute, multi-planet problem, in a way that reflects the results of Ukraine's policy of restoring capitalism, the impotence and the immorality of all branches of government. People’s living conditions deteriorate year after year in all areas. Including in the natural environment. It is painful and shameful that Ukraine is transformed into a huge, dangerous waste dump in Europe. In particular, after joining the Basel Convention, imports of yellow-listed wastes are increasing steadily. What is the response of those in authority? There is much to be said about the transport from Hungary to Carpathia of 4,000 tons of remix. As early as February, I made a parliamentary inquiry on this subject. There was a lot of noise. The Attorney General has promised to set things straight quickly. Six months have passed, and these poisonous substances in the village of the Great Bakta still poison the surrounding soil and water. A Tetrocarphem joint venture has been built near Mukachev, which overloads benzene and other dangerous substances from foreign to our domestic wagons. More and more from the West is being driven through the Mappings in the central and eastern regions. My countrymen were in great danger, with oil, gas and pipeline accidents. Carpathians are also concerned about the dangers of rotting dumps, other wastes of predatory logging, the chemical processing of wood, the extraction of gold, stainless materials, and the accumulation of household waste. Some pesticides in Zakarpat were called more than four areas of Galicina and Bukovina. They also pollute soil and water in neighboring Hungary and other countries. As far as monitoring the enforcement of legislation in this area is concerned, we can say that we are actually imitating it. This is also confirmed by the convincing figures we have in the documents mentioned by colleagues today. Therefore, it is legitimate to raise the issue of recognition of the government’s work as unsatisfactory to the proposals and comments already made, to add the need for a primary increase in the responsibility and capacity of local councils to address these problems, to increase administrative sanctions and criminal responsibility for environmental pollution, to improve the mechanism for the use of funds received from fines to ensure that they have interest and local councils, to remove housing and utilities, to finance public programs and other important objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u116	Thank you. Yuri Orobec, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the extreme inconsistencies in the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in this area in view of this: according to a protocol decision of the Council, which took place in the first Deputy Prime Minister Anatoly Kinach of 09.09.2005, where it was necessary to create a new implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 26 July 2001 No. 915 and then repeal the old one. It was done the other way around. Thanks. The Joint Order of the Ministry and Mineconomy of 10.12.2001 Nos.304 and 793, which determined the order of payment for the disposal of packaging, packages introduced in Ukraine, was repealed. In addition, the suspension of Decision No 324, March 18, 2004 “Some questions about the use of individual wastes as secondary raw materials”. What's done? The old system has been removed in view of the fact that the Customs Code does not provide for the said procedures and that the new system is not created. As a result, all these decisions led to the fact that all products in packaging and packaging crossing Ukraine’s customs borders were free of charge for disposal. And this is a violation of Ukraine's Waste Act and Cabinet Order No. 915 of July 26. I mean, over a thousand tons of waste. They get in every day, it's packaging and packaging waste, dumps, because there's no funding for their disposal. The specialized companies involved in the collection and processing of waste are closing down jobs that were created in this area. And it also reduced by 50% the arrival of the Ukrainian State's State Budget, which came from the Ucrecocomres State. You know, in the end, you have to admit that recycling and processing is like a bride with an ossum. There's an isum that's a useful element of processing itself. When you can use high-efficiency technologies and gain profits. But the gathering process itself, it's a deeply cost-effective process. This calls for state compensation. And if the state doesn't do the task of assigning a body to monitor it to compensate for the expenses of those enterprises that are doing the conscious damage, then we don't have the order, we just have to pull the bride out of the invention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u118	Thank you. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u119	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, to what has already been said, I could add other examples, such as the incineration plant, which is practically at the edge of the city of Kiev, which is extremely harmful to human health. That's the problem. I could give a lot of examples about my Kerchen peninsula, my district. But let us pay attention, please, to ways that could solve these problems. We talk a lot about the need to solve something. But what can really be done? Not only does it take good will, the President's and the Government's will to solve these problems, but it requires first and foremost funds. That's what a lot of people here have been talking about. There is a lack of funding in the State budget to address this problem as well as other population problems. There is a lack of funds from enterprises to ensure that these technologies are compatible. There has been a shortage of resources from the human settlements, whose budgets have recently been in terrible shape. There is a lack of money in cities, settlements, even for wages at present, and debt is beginning to grow, let alone the problem that we are currently dealing with. Why is there a lack of funds in the State budget, local budgets, business budgets? On many occasions, we Communists talked about this. And I am asking Ukrainian citizens who really want these problems to be solved, like health problems, the problems of poverty, which now, despite the rising wages and pensions, are all aware once the elections have passed, that wages and pensions will not be raised there for another 3-4 years, and that prices will start to rise in just one year, and tariffs will be enormously high, and there will probably be no fools who now believe in the care of the current State for the people of Ukraine. The state rate needs to be changed in order to ensure that all levels have funding for the issue under consideration. How can I change it? First of all, turn your face to the people. To end the capitalist course, the privatization course, which will provide the lives of the oligarchs and they all know it. There were oligarchs at Kravchuk, Kuchma and Yushchenko. We see that this is actually a three-faced Janus, the body of the three lords in common is an oligarchy. We must return to the path of socialism and ensure the development of the economy, the money in Gosbudget to invest in economic development, and then the State will have the means for human settlements.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-13-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we're going to take stock of our Government Day. I think, despite the fact that he was going through specific conditions, that aside from the government's Day, we've been dealing with other problems, but you and I have good reason to say that he's done well. Because the reporters who told us about the situation and the report and those who participated in the discussion were more unique than ever. The only one in the evaluation of Parliament with the government, and the only ones in the assessments and approaches, are factions regardless of their political orientation. And the point of this is that really, this is one of the problems that, if not today, figuratively speaking, tomorrow can bring about an eclipse on the neck of our economy and society. I would like to remind myself of the numbers that have been mentioned in some way today. 215-220 million tons of waste each year. 215-220 million tons of waste a year. Five years is one billion tons of waste. And what's most important and most importantly, though it doesn't seem like it's garbage, household waste actually, as statistics show, the Cabinet of Ministers information, 2 percent of this waste is just waste, and the rest is waste from our industry, which, as it were, can soon turn our flourishing Ukrainian land into a garbage dump. Another rather dangerous trend that you've highlighted today, I'm just asking you to focus on it, that 63 million, up to 70 million, we have toxic waste. Wastes that do not just lie there and not just revive the air of the environment, but waste that directly threatens human life, the vitality of our population, and the restorative power of the earth on which they are found. What we're saying is that really, and lately, there's been a fact that it's unheard of that even our capital, which has recently been well celebrated by the fact that the city has been clean and tidy, and it can't deal with this in the last period. And we listened to the mayor's assurance that he would soon take urgent measures to clean up the garbage capital. This is the capital where there is the best budget, this is the capital where there are the best possibilities, not comparing the budget of the city of Kiev with the city, I don't want to insult Mariupol, the Shimmering of anyone else. So there's a problem quite acutely, and it's very good that we're the only ones here in terms of both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Parliament, and we see these ways of solving it. On the one hand, I'd like to ask, I'd like to refer to a committee of profiles, actively support the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet of Ministers would ask, either in association with the National Deputies, because you are the subjects of the legislative initiative, or the individual committee, let's make the necessary bills and accept them that dictate our lives and needs. Because, really, that. What you're saying is no door, sorry, doesn't go through, because that legislative base that exists can be trashed, and there's no responsibility for it. And on the other hand, once again, let's work together. And, the Cabinet of Ministers, the insistence on funding these programs more, but again, and we, my fellow dignitaries, are giving us a draft budget, but it finally approves the Supreme Council's draft budget. So we have to say our word here, and it's an extremely acute social problem, and next to the salary, let's look at this problem, because it's totally about the lives of every person and it's about the lives of our fellow citizens and the functioning, once again, of our land. Again, let us work together in a legislative and practical way to encourage processing. It's being processed, you see, very and very little, extremely little. And if we don't recycle, soon only the turquoise will grow around large industrial centers and cities. So let us look for opportunities and invest as much as possible, or engage our business in this business in order to solve it successfully. I think that if we have such a shared view of government and parliament -- probably I've never heard of any problem as much unity as we have here -- we'll find the possibility of it to the extent that we can, sorry for the tautology, to solve it. I thank everyone very much for participating in our Government Day. This morning's session of Parliament is closed. I remind you that today at 15 a.m. parliamentary hearing will also take place with a rather pressing problem: “The state of the art and prospects of land relations in Ukraine”. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on September 20 of this year. Before the meeting, both at parliamentary hearings and at the next meeting of the Supreme Council.
