ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:44]] They registered in the 406 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Les Stépanovich Tanjuk. Let us welcome our colleague, and we wish him good health and success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, information on our work on July 7, 2005: 17 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: Seven laws were passed, one bill was adopted in the first reading on the basis of 16 regulations and six draft regulations were rejected. Dear colleagues, yesterday during the discussion of the changes to the Customs Tariff Act, I criticized the work of the Committee on Finance, Banking. It was an emotional evaluation that was not distributed to all members of the committee. I'm sorry. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes for the national deputies to make proposals and to announce requests, statements, and reports. I'd like to ask the national MPs to sign up for the speech, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the violation of laws by the Director of the State Enterprise “Ukrainian Polygraph Combine of Securities”, which is a resident of the United States and has property in the United States, as well as on the verification of the activities of an organized group of high-ranking officials of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, whose members, using their positions, act on the theft of budgetary resources in a particularly large way. [[ALEXIOUK, AFRAID, SYDORENKO]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:04]] For the 120th. Alexander TKACZENKA and Constantine CITNIKA to the President of Ukraine on the attempt to illegally seize the Suvorova street area in the Pechersky district of Kiev and to oust the Harmonia Sports Club from there. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:40]] For a hundred and Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:07:02]] For 222 The request is not put to the vote. Who's to go back to the question of sending a request to the President of Ukraine? Please vote. [[10:07:28]] For 261 We're back to the question. I am voting for this request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:07:52]] For 279 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Peter Pisarczuk to the President of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the Novorozdil factory of complex mineral fertilizers and the preservation of its unique production. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:24]] For 276 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:47]] For 255 Decision taken. Vassil Hari to the President of Ukraine on the misuse of the Party of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" of administrative resources and the establishment of a party group in the Cabinet of Ministers. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:19]] For 214 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:41]] For 233 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA and Alexia CORSACOVA to the Chief of the Supreme Council, Minister of Internal Affairs for the attempt to discredit the members of the Supreme Council by acting as Head of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime, Sergio Kornić. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister for the improvement of highly qualified medical care for the benefit categories of the electoral district 51. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister, Defence Minister, regarding the situation surrounding the closure of the military infirmary in the military town of Kirovograd-25. The People's Deputies' Groups to the Prime Minister to make changes to the 2005 State Budget in connection with the underfunding of agricultural budget programmes last year. [[MOROZ, SHEVCHENKO, PLUTINSKI AND OTHERS]] Omelana PARUBKA to the Prime Minister for the repair of the road to the village of Kozatské Zvenigrad district of Cherkas region. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the Kostuk Institute of Psychology. [[JUCHNOVIAN, SPAK, MELNIK]] Leonidas ISAYEVA and Alexia LELJECA to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Committee on Statistics, Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs on Information provided by Vice Prime Minister Mikola Tomenk on the absence of debt from social benefits. Mr. Vladimir FILENKA to the Prime Minister for the enforcement of the law by the State Tax Administration and the State Treasury. Vadima GOUROVA to the Prime Minister for raising the standards of the congregation for pollution of the environment. Victor TURMANOVA and Alexia KORSAKOVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors on the situation that arose with regard to the settlement of Turkmenistan's gas in 2005 and the fraud of power. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister for the purpose of giving the Cabinet of Ministers a mandate to carry out the proposal of the non-existent Civil Rights Group “Right”. Leonidas G. G. to the Prime Minister on the financing of the Uranium Production of the State Enterprise East Mining Co. and the failure to comply with the requirements of the law on compensation for the combined value added tax. Mikoli Komara to Prime Minister on the problem of bankrupt state-owned enterprises, such as the Autosklo plant Bondareva and Technobudsklo. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the socio-cultural development of the Archangel Village Council. The community of the Hersonian region. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Property Fund, on the situation around VAT “The New Dealer’s Plant of Complex Mineral Goods”. Ms. Alexander ŠEVCHENKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the gasification of the village of Novopavlovka in the region of Dnipropetrov. Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and Arts for the creation of the National Natural Park “Granite Steps of Pobužja”. Anton RUSlCIAN to the Prime Minister for the enforcement of the law by the State Tax Administration and the State Treasury. Group of National Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science on violations of the educational and administrative activities of the Rector of Kyiv University of Technology and the design of Volkov. [[MURDER, SADOVIJI, VERNIGORA]] Anatolysa RACHAN to the Prime Minister for the 2005 liquidation of children’s day camps, which served for decades in the city of Eupatoria. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister on the implementation of the Act on the Comprehensive Program for the Approval of Ukraine as a Transit State 2002-2010. Anatolia NALIWAYKA and Volodymira ČERNJAK to the Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Court, on the biased trial of the judges of the Vádrija District Court of Mikolayeva. Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister for the renewal of the construction of bridge crossings in Zaporozhye, which has been unwarranted by the Presidential Order of Ukraine. Anatolia KZŁOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the renovation of housing in the Pervomay region of Mikolaiiv. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the situation of the purchase of milk by underpriced processing enterprises. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, the Secretary-General of RNBO, the Attorney-General, the Head of the BSB, the Minister of Industrial Policy, the Head of the State Property Fund, on the facts of the illegal privatisation of the State-owned Torez power plant, which is linked to enterprises of strategic importance for the economy and security of the State. Tamara PROSKURATOVA to the Prime Minister on the situation in the city of Mikolayev with regard to the privatisation planned for 2005 of the Mikolai State Enterprise “The Science and Production Complex of the Zora gas turbine – “Mashproject”. Mr. Mikoli Sološenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Policy for Repayment of Remuneration from Remuneration of Wages to the former employees of the “Prioril” KSP of the Dnipropetrovsk Region. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on waste management in Ukraine. [[SAVIC, MASTERS, YOURSELF, AND OTHERS]] RAISES OF THE rich to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the production activities of the Putilivska mine in the city of Donetsk. Anatolia KZŁOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the purpose of establishing new rates of payment for the licence for the wholesale trade in tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the facts of State-owned funds, the abuse of office, the remuneration of material property by officials of the Kyiv City State Administration. [[CARMASINE, BICHOV, DEMOCHINE]] Jurya Shirka to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the restoration of the manufacturing industry. A group of national deputies to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka for the creation of a network of Internet centers. [[Sleepless, Lebedivsky, Lupina]] Oleg TGAGNIBOK to Deputy Prime Minister Tomenk, Minister of Education and Science for the introduction of a special teaching discipline “The Genocide of Ukrainians in the 20th century” in general and higher educational institutions of all levels of accreditation and forms of ownership. Jury KOSTENKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikolia Tomenka on the inaction of the authorities regarding the establishment of a district perinatal centre in Chernig. RAISES OF THE rich to Deputy Prime Minister Roman Immortal on non-satisfaction with the request for funding of measures for the project “Implementation of contractual and competitive relations in housing and utilities on the basis of the long-term concept of reform” of the Bologna District Council in Donetsk. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Education, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the issue of pressure and violation of rights and freedoms with regard to the head of the Education Department of the High Town Reich. Jurya BOYCA and Elena BONDARENKO to the Attorney General for the assault of an assistant national deputy. Ms. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General regarding the unbiased and biased handling of the civil case by the head of the Trostian district court and the unlawful actions of the authorities of the district of Suma. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA and Alexia CORSACOVA to the Attorney-General on information on criminal cases concerning violations during the 2004 elections of the President of Ukraine. Oleg KARJOVA and Pavel SULKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Secretary of the RNB on the need to increase electricity tariffs for Energoatom and the consequences of such a decision. THE URGENT Igor of the Attorney General’s Office on the possible abuse of office by officials of the Odessa National Maritime Academy and the possible damage to the State on a particularly large scale. Leonidas ISAYEVA and Alexia LELJEKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, Head of the National Television Council and radio talk about non-legislability in the sale of shares in channel “1+1”. Igor JEREMYEVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the verification of the conformity of the legislation of the law enforcement authorities in the territory of the “Kyiv” manufacturing and footwear company. John SCHEDULE to the Attorney General on gross financial and economic misconduct by the head of VAT “Sums Refined Plant”. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, on the reasons for the indemnity of payment of salaries in VAT, the “Construction Plant” of the city of Kerch and its involvement in the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Eugene LAPINA to the Attorney-General on the legality of the performance of the Director-General of the State Enterprise “S in m and s n a t t t r o r o g and i” regarding the dismissal of his first deputy. LILIA GREGOROVIC to the Attorney General for violating the constitutional rights of citizens by law enforcement, judicial, and other authorities in Mariupol. Anatolya RACHANSKO to the Attorney General, the Head of the Supreme Court, for failure to respond to statements by citizens of the city of Eupatoria about violations of legislation regarding the privatization of the State Housing Fund. Oleg KARJOVA and Alexia LELJEKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration regarding information about the possible closure of the Darnicka market in Kiev and the legality of such activities by the regime. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General on the illegal privatization of an unfinished construction project on the street of Donetska, which led to the liquidation of the continent market. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice on non-response to requests for violations of legislation by the authorities and employees of the State Shareholder Company “National Network of auction centres”. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney-General on irregular distribution criteria and directions for the use of subsidies to the former First Deputy Prime Minister of Azar in 2004. To the Attorney General for the criminalization of officials of the Autonomous Republic of Crime’s Office for the commission of a crime, as provided for in article 372 of the Criminal Code. Mr. KARMAZIN AND Mr. DEMOJINA to the Attorney-General on the mass violations of criminal law, criminal justice and due prosecutorial supervision of the enforcement of laws by the Dnipropetrov district prosecutors during criminal investigations. Alexander RIMARUKA and Ludmila Kirichenko to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for the conduct of criminal investigations into criminal cases violated by the fact that the Office of Ministers was illegally using the funds of the contingency fund. Ms. MATVIENKOVA to the Attorney General regarding the failure to respond to the question of the legality of criminal decisions that have been made in connection with the fact that the budget has been broken. Mr Mikli ROJKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the State Securities and Stock Markets Commission, Head of the State Property Fund on the violation of shareholders' rights and the illegal privatization of VAT. JOURIA BOYCA to the Attorney General for bringing to justice the officials of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the city of Déržinsk Donetské region, who are guilty of leading to the bankruptcy of a private entrepreneur. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General on the facts of the illegal privatization of municipal property and the embezzlement of property of utilities in the Ananiasian district of Odessa. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, Head of the State Property Fund, on the violation of State interests during the privatization of the Mikolai Agricultural Plant and the damage to the State in particular large amounts. Andrija POLITA to the Attorney General for the violation of legislation in criminal proceedings by the Dnipropetrovsky District Attorney’s Office. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Head of the Board of Directors, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the verification of the activities of the Kharkiv State Aviation Company. [[DENMARK, KOSTINJUK, TURKEY]] A group of national deputies to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Ternopil District Public Administration on the facts of opposition to the legitimate economic activity of subjects of the goods market in the city of Ternopol. [[CARMASINE, BICHOV, DEMOCHINE]] TO THE Attorney General’s office in connection with the criminalization of Alex Kozachenko. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the settlement of the legal status of the Kyiv College of Liaison [[CORRESPONDENT IN CONSTANTINOV, TERRITO]] Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to Minister of Interior, head of the Odessa District State Administration, on the illegal actions of the State Road Inspection Authorities. VOLDEMARY PUSAKOVA to the minister of internal affairs regarding the violation of the mother’s constitutional rights. VICTOR ANTEMUCA to the Minister of Education and Science for the completion of the construction of a public education school in the village of Gorbanovka in the Winnicki district. BORISS INSPECTION to the minister of the interior in the absence of an answer to a request for the removal of a car parking near the Premier Palace of Kiev. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Minister of Health for the failure to implement the State Program “Oncology” in the Plain region. Paul MATIWIENKA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of making changes to the censuses of radiological pollution areas as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Igor ŠURMI to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, on providing a legal assessment of the seizure, with the participation of the police, the administrative premises of the Energodar City Market, the illegal removal of material values and documents. DAVID’S people to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the prevention of corruption in the hands of the head of the Kharkiv District Administration. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the minister of foreign affairs for sending a note of protest to the Russian Federation in connection with the fact that its territory has become a foothold for former Kuchma settlers who have been prosecuted in Ukraine and who have been declared internationally wanted. Victor SLAUTI to the Secretary of Defense about the state of the military’s pension and the recalculation of previously appointed pensions. Andrija SKILLY to the Minister of Health, head of the HeadCRA, for the verification of abuses in the central district hospital of the Mikolai district of Lviv. Eugene LAPINA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal actions of the State Road Inspection Officers in the conduct of technical examinations of the means of transport of citizens. Kirila POLIČUKA to the Minister of Culture and Tourism about the allocation of funds for the continuation of work after the restoration of the Holy Trinity Council in Yagotini. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General for the violation of the rights of children and parents, and the abolition of educational institutions in the city of Alexandria, Kyrovograd. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General, for the protection of civil rights of the resident of the city of Brezne Rivensk. Alexander RIMARUKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Committee on Forestry, the Head of the Montenegrin District Administration on the Legality of the Transfer of Forests to Los Angeles. Anatolya NALIKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Board on non-response to requests for violations of effective legislation by the authorities and employees of the State Shareholder Company “National Network of auction centres”. Sergei MATWEIENKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Economic Court on the delay in the provision of materials by the Economic Court of the Donetsk Region. VALLERY TO THE Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, director of the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences, for the initiation of archaeological research to rebuild the temple of the Lord’s Landing in Kiev. Oleg PETROVA to the Secretary of State for the issuance of a decree by the President of Ukraine on the release of the judge of the Coropian District Court of the Chernigian region of Nikolaynka. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Secretary of State for the granting of citizenship to the Ukraine of Romano Zvarić, who now holds the post of Minister of Justice. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Head of the Non-Miravian Paradise of the Vinnitsk Region on the socio-economic issues of residents of the streets of the Solar Village of Braclav. Jury KRUKA to the Head of the Odessa District State Administration regarding the debt owed for the reconstruction of the Chewchenka cultural house in Ishmael. JANUARY to the Head of the State Customs Office on the review of the appeal of a Siberian citizen and on the employment and enforcement of her rights in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges on the violation of disciplinary conduct with regard to the head of the Zaporez Court of Appeal. MICHAEL DOBKINA to the Head of the Supreme Court for ignoring the question of a deputy’s appeal in the case of a citizen named Cassianenka. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Kiev City Head for providing information on the settlement of differences in housing and utility tariffs between 2001 and 2005 by the Kiev City Administration. Anatholic to the Head of the Herson District Council on the distribution of the district budget for the environmental protection of the community. ALLY ALEXANDROVSKA to the head of the State Property Fund for the formal response of the State Property Fund to a request for the effective use of state electricity assets. Vasil Hari to the head of the Bureau, the Attorney-General, the Secretary-General of the National Security and Defence Council on information about the involvement of the eroding in the conscious creation of crisis phenomena in the economy. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, on the solution of the issue of land-use order for members of the Osocorki-2 Garden Society. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the city’s Kiev head on the construction of a university town on Lomonosov Street. JAROSLA’S ASSISTANCE to the head of the U.S.S.A. on the facts of a violation of the law related to corruption. Alexia Korsakova and Viktor TURMANOVA to the president of the Academy of Medical Sciences, the Minister of Health, stated that government officials had a link between birth in July 2005 and increased support for the birth of a child since April. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the procurator of the Kyiv region for failure to respond by the procurator of the Kyiv region to the appeal regarding the extension of the signature and issuance of State-owned land rights by the head of the Borodian regime and his deputy to the residents of the village of Blrhodian. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the prosecutor of the Herson region for violations of legislation and abuse of office as director of the Soviet School of Public Education in the district of Turupina. Mikhail KOSIVA to the first deputy head of the State Judicial Administration for the transfer of the building to Smila Cherkas region to the religious community. Oleg TJAGNIBOK to Deputy Prime Minister Tomenk of Ukraine, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Prosecutor General, Head of the Cherka District State Administration for the Prevention of the Destruction of Historical and Archaeological Monuments of the Ukrainian People, which are part of the State Historical and Cultural Reserve of Trachtomirov, the cessation of illegal activity in the territory of the Reserve and the granting it the status of "national". Mr. Mikola Komara, Mr. Peter Piszarczuk and Mr. Alexander stand before the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of information published by the Censor Internet. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the crisis situation at the Kirovgrad Repair and Mechanical Plant Taratuti, which has led to a sharp reduction in working costs and a loss of human and industrial potential. Mr. Vladimir LÄCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to remedy the injustice of retirement by age. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the decision of the general assemblies of the village of Kozatzke Zvenigrad district of Cherkas region on the construction of the road with improved coverage. Igor ŠURMI to the head of the CBC, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of electoral legislation by candidate to the vice-deputy of the Mikolai District Council of the Head of the Mikolai District Administration of Sadikov. Mr. Vladimir ZAJEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Minister of Interior, the heads of the Board on the corruption of the head of the Mikolai District Administration of Sadikov, the first Deputy Tomannik, the deputy of Vojnolovich. MICHAYLA RADIO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for an in-depth consideration of the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy regarding the restoration of the rights of Ukrainian citizen Schmerecki. MICHAEL RADIO to the Minister of the Interior on the need for an in-depth examination of the request of the Ukrainian national deputy regarding the restoration of the rights of Ukrainian citizen Schmerecki. Thus, honourable national deputies, 117 parliamentary inquiries have been made. The factions. Our Ukraine - 24, the communists - 19, the Ukrainian regions - 27, the SDPU - 6, the only Ukraine - 4, the Democratic Initiative - 2, the People's Party - 5, the Socialist Party - 7, the Block of Timoshenko - 5, the industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 1, the Ukrainian People's Party - 10, the Democratic Ukraine - 4, the non-fractional - 3. Let us move on to the speeches made by the national deputies. 30 minutes. Please show the audience who signed up for the talk. George Boiko, Communist faction. Your right to speak. All right, here comes the Bull. Get ready for Remenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u2	George Buiko, the All-Ukrainian Union of Intelligence for Socialism, a faction of Communists. In recent years we have witnessed the brutal destruction of the historic heritage of Kiev, its landscape. Thus, outraged by this phenomenon, the Chinese carry out various protests. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Culture, led by Oksana, has done nothing by other government agencies to stop this vacanal. In recent times, it has been known that in the design of a plan for the future construction of the Pecher region, there is no need to preserve the building-master of the folk artist Ukraine, the academics, the sculptor Valentin Znoba. That's why. The workshop could be destroyed at any time and it would be a new multi-story commercial building. I consider this to be a criminal approach to an object that represents the glory of our city, which is in fact unique in the European and world - wide museums of the family Under the roof of the artist’s mastery, hundreds of sculptures of Valentin Znoba, dozens of paintings and paintings of his wife, the artist, Tetjana Golmbiowski’s academics, their son, already known sculptor of Mikola Znoba. Here are also the works of the father of Valentin Znoba, sculptor of John and the father of Tetjana Golombian Mikola Malostanov. Before us is the treasury of three generations of talented artists, the real national pride of Ukraine, part of its national acquisition. In addition, new pearls of sculpture, painting, and graphics continue to be created in the museum’s workshop. It is one of the active and most important centers of spiritual life in the capital. I'm sure it's time to ask not only about preserving the workshop, but also about giving it a higher status. Up to the status of a cultural object of national importance. That's why I'm officially asking the Minister of Culture of Belarus and the city head of Omelchenk about this. By the way, there's already a project to turn a workshop into a full-fledged museum to visit. The current location of the workshop right in Pechersk makes it an integral part of the historic architecture complex, along with Lavra, the memorial of the Great Homeland War, the House of towny, the old Lipok architecture and other buildings, the value of which has long been recognized in the world. The Museum of Artists can and should turn into one of Kiev's most interesting business cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u3	Yes, please, Alexy Remenuk, faction of the only Ukraine, prepare for the chariot. Is there a belt? I can't see. Yes. Is there a chariot? Neither did I. Sergey Truenko? There's no Justice. Yes, there is, excuse me, yes, please. Wekrousov is behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u4	I must say that because of some of our political battalions in the Supreme Council, here, in the middle of Parliament, for those or other bills and because of the struggle we have always led by non-parliamentary, I emphasize that methods do not fall into the order of the day from my point of view and from the point of view of many of my colleagues from the faction of important social-led bills. In particular, since last year, Bill No. 6427 of December last year on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the establishment of a minimum wage in the cost structure. That policy that we all have now together, both government and parliament, setting a minimum wage is a policy that leads only to the preservation of poverty. In addition, the minimum wage may be to some extent not a manufacturing area of the yard, another electrician, another locksmith, and so on, but a manufacturer. In all at least a civilized world, there's a share in the cost structure of produce, 20, 30 percent and more, in Europe, up to 50 percent, because labor is the most expensive thing in society, just as a person is the most expensive thing in society. In addition, before September 2004, Law No. 6081, by Pravdenko and Hubsky, was passed, a text amending certain laws on government and local budgets. What does that mean? For example, in the Poltava region and in other regions, fossils are being mined, but all income taxes on these fossils go to Kiev in the central budget. Local budgets have only social pressures. So the labor force comes from other regions, experts, other people, the workload at local hospitals, services, and so on. But in local budgets, for example, gas, such as that in the Gaddaic region of Poltava, is not included in local budgets. And it creates a kind of social even tension between the locals and those who still come to work these useful ones, to extract these useful fossils and so on and so forth. I can also call the Housing Tax Bill 7620, the Personal Income Tax Bill, which also has to be introduced into large incomes, because we're all taking about 13 percent of them. And from small incomes, you have to take much less, and from large to 35 percent, 40 percent, and so on, it's again the same thing that's in a civilized world. I mean, I want to emphasize that much of our parliamentary work is aimed at carrying out socially fair laws and establishing at least certain ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u5	The Anatoly of Mokrous's faction "The One Ukraine," followed by the Hoornik, passed on to Shershun. Please, it's Mokrousov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u7	Please, Vadim Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u8	Respectable colleagues, respected miners, metalsmiths, chemists, coal miners, the whole industry, listen to what I'm about to say. The more we talk about industry and say that this is a chicken that carries golden eggs, the more historians, physicists, so to speak, archaeologists are dealing with this issue. Every time and in this room there are laws that do not withstand any criticism. Now there's a law that increases ten times the price of nadra. Without an economic effect, it's all going, so to speak, in a populist way. And now a new decree is being prepared in the Cabinet of Ministers, according to which "from 1 July 2005, the convention for environmental pollution in 2005 should be calculated at 2,372 instead of 1,082 as currently envisaged. Despite the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, the increase in the congregations for pollution of the environment is due to appropriate discussion by natural and legal persons. The proposed higher standard will only increase the cost and cost of production. By making decisions that affect not only the economic situation of all basic sectors, but also the economic situation in Ukraine as a whole will have unforeseeable social, economic and political consequences. Expressing concern about the lack of transparency to resolve such important issues that I think should be taken up in advance, because otherwise they will lead to the destruction of the planning and economic and financial activities of businesses in Ukraine. Hence, the honorable Julia Volodymyrna, be quick to intervene in the matter, conduct a comprehensive analysis, influence, increase congregation standards for pollution of the environment, and take the necessary measures. I'll give you an example of this: yes, only after the Metallurgical Combination of Creebrisstal did the pollution assembly increase by 25 million. That's right. And this money in Krivbas, and you know what the situation is, could have a great impact on the atmosphere of this urban worker. The Committee on Industrial Policy has done so, and we believe that with this issue we should resolve clearly and positively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u9	Yes, Mikola Shershun. Eugen Gorenik gave it to him. Prepare Feldman.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u10	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues! In this room, you and I have a lot of laws, regulations, but we may forget that strict control is needed in order for them to be implemented. Unfortunately, I can prove today that the decision of the Supreme Council is simply often ignored. However, Kabminu officials have always found a reason to shift the blame to the national MPs for the noise of making decisions. But it is necessary not only to see a straw in a stranger’s eye but also to see a log of one’s own. An example is the Supreme Council's decision to recommend parliamentary hearings "the 18th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Look to the future." By that time, and over a year later, we had recommended that Kabmina conduct a study of people at risk of having thyroid cancer, and primarily children under the age of 14. But in this case, as the people say, "and the cat wasn't rolling." Maybe we don't have a thyroid problem. Yes, and statistics confirm that. 60 percent of those suffering from this terrible disease are in the six northern affected regions of the country. Once again, I was convinced of this by hosting voters in Kostopol and the Bereznov region. And 70 percent of thyroid cancer patients are children under the age of 14. The state gave these people benefits and separated themselves from them. It's like a ransom. At the same time, no copies were received from the beginning of the year by interministerial commissions studying the causal link between the disease and the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The financing of targeted dissipation is delayed. In addition, I conclude that we have to stop practicing how to solve problems by adopting state programs. They don't work. An example is the State Program on Oncology, which provides for the financing of centralized procurement of oncopate products. Free, for example, for the Plains, there are only 100 bracelets for one cancer patient, with tens and hundreds of times the cost of treatment. But these modest expenses do not come to the sick either. If you add a stop to the Chernobyl construction program, in practice, to the financing of free prescriptions for Chernobyl, it seems that the government hopes to solve Chernobyl’s problems only in time. They'll all be able to stretch their legs by the time we get through. So I demand that the Ministry of Health immediately undertake an analysis of the effective funding of the Oncology programme, these 22 programs that have been developed, but unfortunately most of them have not been implemented. I'm calling the Prime Minister. Practically, the 2006 budget process began. Julia Volodymyrna, do your best to make this year a year for people who have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster to have this law passed by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u11	Yes, please, Feldman, Timoshenko block.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u13	Yes, please, Billorus, and Puppy gives him his three minutes. Six minutes. He'll be followed by Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Today, the session of the Supreme Council ends! The whole of Ukraine, its citizens and the whole world have followed closely the situation in our country, the work of the government and the higher legislative branch. After the victory of the Ukrainian Democratic Revolution, everyone had great expectations, hopes and hopes. And the question is, do these national hopes come true, do we have opportunities for the full and immediate realization of these expectations? The incident with the statement by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which was torn down in the Supreme Council, other facts speak of a great deal. We cannot help but answer the questions that are before us today: has the Supreme Council dealt with new government tasks, or has it responded to the great expectations of Ukrainian citizens. In summing up this session and generalizing a new stage in the development of our state, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that alongside some real achievements in the work of the Supreme Council there have been both serious shortcomings and major problems. The problems stem from the fact that the new President, the democratically elected President of Ukraine, and the new government were forced to coexist and cooperate with the old Supreme Council, in which the natural law of the difficult political inertia of old political, financial, economic, business interests is in effect. These political and financial interests, their plots and timetables have concentrated in the Supreme Council and have not enabled Ukraine to ensure the unity of the entire system of government, while at the same time dividing branches of government. This, in our view, is the source of all other problems. And no beautiful talk about the distribution of branches of power, their independence, their incompetence cannot be justified by the situation of swan-chuck and cancer, which has become a reality. The people of Ukraine are losing this daily and very much, and he has the right to ask us as his representatives in the higher legislative branch of power, and he has the right to order in his country. Regrettably, the Supreme Council of this call did not ensure cooperation with the government or effective control of its activities. Populism, which has been very active lately played by the famous political forces, has led to the adoption of laws in the Supreme Council only in recent times, which have cost the budget more than 25 billion dollars that are not in the budget and cannot be in the budget. In fact, the legislative work of the government was blocked and unlocked only as a result of the superstitions of the President and the Prime Minister. Silent political sabotage, intense political emotion on the verge of political blackmail are also the realities of our parliament. Under this cover, old and special new friends and counselors for the people are already campaigning for a new parliament instead of regular and effective legislative activities. The Governing Body of the Supreme Council failed to coordinate its work in order to achieve effective legislative work. There is no parliamentary majority in Parliament, and that is not normal. Its formation is artificially blocked. Some do not wish to have such a parliamentary majority. The government coalition is acting ineffectively. The government's housing program is actually broken down. Dear colleagues, we have great, serious problems and challenges. Summer vacations are the time to think about it, to come together with the forces and to do everything possible to make Parliament a really popular forum for Ukraine in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u15	A storm instead of a Mazurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u16	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The main problem with Ukrainian parliamentaryism is that all of us are witnesses, and who are the direct organizers of the destruction of Ukraine's democratic foundations. Finally, it is clear that people who have come to rule the state view authority as an exclusive goal. Such an attitude toward power inevitably calls for ignoring the Constitution and demeaning the Supreme Council as one of the branches of government as a tool of national will and influence. The main danger for us is authorism. authoritarianism in Ukraine. The main obstacle to authoritarianism is the independent parliamentary force. During the session, the faction of SDPU(o) struggled with the increase of the legal status quo. The faction's initiative has led to compliance with legislative requirements to prevent the reconciliation of parliamentary activity with work in other authorities and local self - government. There are 13 eagles left to land in the near future. On June 21st, the Supreme Council of 244 votes in favour of the faction's Bill on Amendments to the PKK, which provides for the right to be taken into custody of an arrested Ukrainian citizen, signed by at least 150 MPs to Parliament. The faction points out once again that under the conditions of the present view of the rule of law, when calls for questioning are extended through the media and people are called criminals before the courts, this Act is of paramount importance for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens and is a safeguard against the seductive nature of law enforcement at the stage of the pretrial investigation. And a fresh example, this morning the secretary of the Winnické Round Party stepped out of the house and went to work. Within half an hour, a car with Kiev numbers stopped by the house. The car, people came out of the car asking their wife if it was her husband. Where did they take him, who took him? We don't know. We ask Vladimir Litvin to give a mandate to the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Security Service: to establish what is happening with the Secretary of the Vinické Communion of SDPU (o) Dmitri Mikola Andryovich. In recent times, new means of pressure have also been used on members of the Supreme Council. As we know, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has asked the Attorney General's Office to consider bringing to justice the responsibility of 16 suspects. The purpose of such statements is direct pressure on the Ukrainian Parliament. Given the nature of recent events, we are looking forward to the struggle to preserve the Supreme Council as an institution of parliamentaryism, whose independence is a sign of a democratic state. No doubt the next session will be more difficult. The new authorities will apply any form of pressure to the opponents. And it's not just about the political opponents of the current regime, it's about preserving parliamentaryism, it's about the fate of Ukrainian democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u17	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction, please. Masenko, Leschenko's handing over Masenka. And Masenko's show is six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u18	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, radio audiences, television viewers, I want to draw attention to all the events that took place in the Supreme Council yesterday and the day before yesterday, because the calls are coming, the letters are coming. And there's a mixed perception among the population of these events. What happened? My strong belief was that there was a national betrayal of the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. With this betrayal taking place at the hands of the President, the Prime Minister and, unfortunately, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Look, out of 30 percent of the almost fat black earth, Ukraine has to all the countries of Europe. 7 percent of the planet’s population is composed. 0.7 per cent; 4.8 per cent of us have just been scouted. So, where did we go? And we're going to import sunflower, oil, meat, sugar. Is it a state? It's kind of a raw supplement to that world trade organization. We're becoming an even more banana republic. I would like the people of Ukraine to remember this well. And I'm more surprised when I was in the Presidium yesterday, watching the hall, I watched who was responding to these events from the deputies. And what's more surprising to me is that those who are most said to have worn kuchma kuchma during his reign today are shouting that they are for a new order, for a new power, supporting these reforms and this regime. We can see where Kuchma's rule led. And for your part. And now you want to be the hero of the event again, you want to be clean. No, people need to understand who is who. Look at the way it went. Well, I can't take a minute today. Take the line you want to apply, but when the Agrarian Party destroyed the whole village, there's nothing left in the village. Now the bones of these agrarians have passed over into the people's party, already a national party, with the aim of destroying the nation and destroying the people, so that the people will not be left in Ukraine. What are we going to do, people good? Well, think about it. It's already been venerated, I'm addressing you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yesterday an interview was given by a member of the National Faction and spoke Russian; I do not see it here today; and an interview was given, saying: “I am the representative of a party called Lithuania. It's such a shame. What are we getting at? And I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, wanted to stop at your role in all these processes. You play some, in my view, as a bonding chain between the Kushmish authorities of the former and the present. You were Kuchma's active sidekick! You know what your share is in the events of 2000. Had it not been for those events, there would have been no need for an orange revolution! You wouldn't have to do all these coups. You contributed to what happened in 2000. You played an active role in 2004, as if you were a national hero! And yesterday and the day before yesterday, you're a national hero. Under normal conditions, the rostrum is blocked, so you usually shut down the session, called off the session. And yesterday and the day before yesterday, the noise and you, no matter what, continue. Who are you serving, please tell me? Or is there someone paying you, or perhaps some interest? Well, open up to the people. I can't understand, I want to treat you with respect. But you can see that it does not work in any way with your actions. That's why I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, well let the President, the President is friends with Saakashvili, the President of Georgia, but think, who in the Soviet Republic has joined? Kyrgyzstan, Georgia, and Moldova. Well, poorer countries probably don't exist all over the world. And you're still there, come on, you've got Ukraine. So why are we doing this? I want to talk to the voters today. I've recently had a conversation with several deputies, a friendly confidential conversation I'm not going to call their names, but the MPs are already rich, they're already fully supporting this power and they're saying, "In these circumstances, in the present, only fools and drunkards can't earn money." That is how I would like to draw the attention of the people of Ukraine. But look who you are compared to, and who likens you. Draw conclusions and keep in mind the events that took place yesterday and the day before, and so that you can remember what they will do. I know that we're not in the same situation as Vladimir Mikhailovich, and he's going to take a line after that without asking anyone, and he's going to deny me. But if you say the Company made mistakes. I agree. But today, yesterday and the day before, I realized, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Company is now making no mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u19	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u20	Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to appeal to the venerable communists, gentlemen, or whatever they want to be called. Your leaders say it's a government of capitalists and nationalists all the time. So for the radio audience, for everyone who sees us, I want to say. If nationalists were in power long ago, the crimes of the Communist regime would have been condemned. There would already be a three-K illustration, and there would be removals from power of communists, quagmires and kagebists. Long ago there would have been a question, a question that would have been raised about the second national Russian language. A long time ago, UN UPA would have been recognized as a warring party. And it would certainly have returned the count to the passport of nationality. So society does not need to speculate on such matters. Because of that, I'd like to ask. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the law I proposed was passed by a committee on illustration. He hasn't been for four months.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u21	I, my dear fellows, will not. Dear colleagues, I am not going to take a lineup because the previous speaker devoted the entire six - minute report to me. I just want to say one thing: "Don't be bad as long as it's quiet." And, dear fellows, I think how much I've done for Parliament to make the Supreme Council the Supreme Council, you can't possibly understand that. I think we need to read more books or just go back to the letter and learn it, and everything will be fine. [[Applause]] Yes, let's move on, dear fellows, to. Dear colleagues, no. We still have a number of national MPs who are dissatisfied with the response to parliamentary requests. They have properly drawn up the documents. Oleg Petrov, please. Do you have Oleg Petrov? Get ready for Michael Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I was moved to give an answer that I have not received regularly from the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor’s Office. This time it's a banal matter -- the abuse of power by the leadership of the Cernigian Paradise community. According to my constituents, it's not just consumption, it's also the former head of the Storish Reichs. As a result of these leaders, a number of objects, namely stores, have become private cafes of collective property. These sticky documents were covered up by the so-called "fourth conference of consumer co-operation of the D.C. district." Several questions were made on this subject. This is April 22, May 17. I got a receipt for all of them. I think it's a trend, and I'm getting more and more from the government instead of the meaningful responses to the banal discount. Has this cooperation been promised to us by the leaders of the government? How many of them are there? How many of them are there? Does it take years to question people? I quote my voters. The last quote, which highlights a very large letter with very many signatures, is "the Mafia Immortal." I convince them that it's not that we work, but the answers that the Attorney General allows destroy any belief in people in overcoming corruption. I ask the Attorney General to come back personally to this case and give an answer to me and my constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u23	Mikola Nightshenko, please. Is there a Nightshenko? None. Honorable national MPs, two factions, two by two factions, have called for a recess or an application. These are factions: "Ukraine regions", "Democratic Ukraine." Please, who will be making a statement from you? Richter Raisa Vasilivna. And then from the faction of the Socialist Party and the industrialists and entrepreneurs. Who will act? The miller, Mikola. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm sorry, but I'm forced to speak to you again as a doctor, because today I can say that some have been struck by a disease called "The Chronic Political Gonorrhea." What caused her to grow sharply? When I met with the Presidential Committee in PARJE, I said first, about the attitude of my political party, the "Regions of Ukraine" and the faction of the "Regions" to the changes adopted in the Constitution. This involved the imperative mandate, the restoration of general prosecutorial supervision and the appointment of members of the government in an unequal way when some ministers would be subordinated to the President and some would be controlled by Parliament. Secondly, on 18,000 and one example, I proved that in Ukraine the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office and the Prosecutor’s Office are not law enforcement agencies. These are penal, repressive organs, law enforcement agencies, because they do not protect the rights of citizens, and they no longer follow the principles of presumption of innocence. I analyzed the position and decision of the Central Electoral Commission and the Supreme Court in cases where the electoral right of citizens should be restored. And as an example, I can give an example of the failure of the European Court of Justice to enforce Major Melnick's electoral right. These bodies, the CLTC and the Supreme Court, will decide in 2006 on the legal basis of the newly elected parliament. Will they be trusted by the people? And now I'm going to tell you what the parallel to chronic disease is. It is well - known that chronic diseases are treated quickly and effectively, if provoked, by exacerbation. And that's what happened. Immediately after I spoke to the leaders of PARE, I was slandered in a controlled online edition. That's my conclusion. By my speeches in the Supreme Council and especially during my meeting with President PARE, I hit the very painful point of the regime, and I made the correct diagnosis by causing a chronic disease of the attitude of power toward opposition. But now, dear colleagues, the first dose of medicine to power, and the authorities have accepted it, has taken place. President PARE reported that monitoring from Ukraine would not be removed, and this was the case after the meeting of the leaders of PARE with the opposition. So the diagnosis and the tactics of treatment are chosen, and as a doctor and politician, I will try my best to do as they say in the famous film and cure you, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u25	Melnik Mikola Eutychiyevich from the faction of the Socialist Party and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u26	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to turn on the sound that there are sugar beet producers on the street on the 4th day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u27	Please turn on the broadcast on the street. Please come in. Please speak to Mikola Eutychyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u28	Parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. During the years of the previous regime in Ukraine, there has been a real upheaval in the beet industry. Sugar beet crops have been severely reduced, and more than three dozen sugar plants have been destroyed. Throughout the 200-year history of the industry, it hasn't experienced such a severe and destructive crisis as it is now -- sugar production has gone down three times. Ukraine blew up the world’s reputation for the great sugar state. Millions of Ukrainians have lost their jobs, and the state and local budgets are a source of reliable replenishment. A real disaster for the sugar industry was the introduction of large quantities of cane sugar into Ukraine. By filling the pockets of the oligarchs, this operation destabilized the internal market, contributing to the destruction of the industry. Against the backdrop of this scourge, it is a surprise that today's government has made changes to the Supreme Council of Change to the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Production and Implementation of Sugar, which makes it impossible for Ukraine to export its own sugar, and by strengthening its need to join the World Trade Organization, it opens the way for unlimited imports of sugar. In fact, the government continues its harmful practice of investing in a foreign economy through its poverty to increase the profits of the Ukrainian oligarchs. It is for this purpose that the sugar crisis is artificially created so that people can come to terms with the questionable intentions of authority. And there's no reason for a crisis. Elemental calculations confirm that in Ukraine there is enough sugar for all needs, and the price of sugar can be hit by one or two commercial investments for which sugar is enough to supply. It seems that the State does not want to protect its own breadwinner, to guarantee the country’s food security, but to involve the economy in a fraudulent adventure. The destruction of the sugar industry is the destruction of the Ukrainian village's prospects, it's the path to its collapse and Ukraine's complete dependence on a foreign producer. The Socialist faction supports the position of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, strongly condemns the adventurous intentions and demands that Parliament, the government, the President put an end to the world's and the world's managed destruction of barrel-sugar production. We need to stop importing cane sugar, which is during the sugar season; we need to develop a sugar development program that has been and is to remain a visiting card for Ukraine. People and history will not forgive us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u29	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u30	I repeat. People and history will not forgive us if we allow sugar production to be destroyed. I'd like to hand you three folders with tens of thousands of signatures of beetmakers and processors to the President of Ukraine, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Take a look at this reformed village today. You see, what it really is, so we need to protect Ukraine from this decline in the sugar sector and not just the sugar industry, please. This is for you to remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u31	Dear National MPs, two other factions: "The only Ukraine" and the People's Party took a break. Please, will you talk? Please, Dear Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u32	Vassili Nadraga, People's Party faction. Dear colleagues, dear fellow citizens, we have just heard a speech with you, excuse me, there is no turning around to say our colleague from the Communist faction. Why? Because such filth, such filth, I'm not afraid of that word, it's hard to expect. I understand you're starting a campaign company. I understand everyone wants to like the voters. But I'm sorry, if we want to call ourselves politicians in our political activities, if we want to call ourselves MPs, then respectable, let's not wander to positions, I don't want to say drunks and fools, as the colleague tried to call himself. I want to say that we must be responsible for our actions to the people. And the attempt will be, "And you and you," and we'll see what it leads to. Yesterday, in power, there are insults today that the current power that the opposition has given us from the militia has been given us, and we hear the talks again: "And you are us then, and we are you today." And where are we gonna get to? An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth? So I would like to remind you that 48 million people are with you a measure of responsibility, all of whom are 450 people sitting in this room. Therefore, when today people who tell us that they care so much about our people today go out and do things, I ask forgiveness, sudden, cynical, lying, whose purpose is only self-assurance. Money price, my dears, to you as politicians. I understand it's always easier to be against it because it's always easier to go out and say, and we were against it, so it didn't work out. But I'm sorry, your eternal stand against it can lead to cataclysms that end with a human cow. Don't yell, don't yell, you're in a session room, not in front of a closed toilet. You know how to listen, my dears. And so once again, my dears, if we're called politicians, let's be these politicians. Otherwise, go to the square and prove what you want. It's not necessary to go out and throw dirt on your colleague, but unfortunately, there's not enough responsibility. So when you have temptations on this subject, think about how your offspring will appreciate what you have done, think about what you are doing today. Regrettably, when the argument is lacking, it seems that they are moving on to individuals. So, ending up without too much time, I just want to say one thing: Demagogy is the greatest evil that is allowed in politics, because it leads to barricades, leads people to blood, and then they spread their hands, and they say, "Well, that's the way it is." My dears, we won't let you do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u33	Honourable National MPs, the words have the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Matveyev Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, in connection with the adoption of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, ruled that the decision to terminate the term of office of Ukraine’s national deputy Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna was lifted today at the committee’s meeting and that her application was supported. In accordance with the requirements of part one of the first article of the 5th Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", the Committee has taken a decision and has presented for your consideration a draft decree on the permanent termination of the powers of Ukraine's National Deputy Seminyuk Valentina Petrovna elected in the multi-mandatory national constituency Socialist Party of Ukraine in relation to her personal application for parliamentary powers. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u35	The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Seminouc Valentina Petrovna is put to the vote. Registration number 7793. [[11:20:50]] For 336 Decision taken. Honourable People's Deputies, on July 7, 2005, the Central Election Commission registered with the Ukrainian People's Deputies: Butza Bogdan Manuilovich in a multi-mandatory state-run constituency from the political party block of the Viktor Yuszczenk "Our Ukraine". Stepanova Mikhail Volodymyrovich, in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Fedorczuka Jaroslav Petrovich in a multi-mandatory state-run constituency district from the election bloc of political parties, the election bloc of Yulia Timoshenko. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. National deputies of Ukraine are invited to make an oath to the rostrum: Buza Bogdan Manuilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u36	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s independence in all my actions. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u37	Yes. Congratulations. [[Applause]] The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhailo Volodymyrovich Stepanov, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u38	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of the welfare of the country, the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u39	Honourable National Deputies, National Deputy Fedorchuk Jaroslav Petrovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u40	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensuring the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u41	Please welcome our colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, two more factions require a recess or a statement in accordance with the Rules. These are factions of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the Yulia block of Timoshenko. Please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, strange things were happening this week in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On Tuesday we witnessed a violent confrontation with, on the one hand, the accomplices, on the other hand, a packet of votes on the WTO. We saw the standard, then we saw the Yushchenk himself. You had 260 votes, which you showed in the next vote. The question is, Why is it that when the microphones were not broken at the time, the package was not voted on? Although I can tell myself where and how the microphones are mounted at the Bureau table, because I recognize the involvement of these events, but in the past. Of course, someone did not want it to be voted on like that. You know, no one blames me for my sympathy for Yushchenk, but Kuchma, on the 11th year of his presidency, experienced what he did to him in the Supreme Council, and Yushchenko got it on the fifth month. To whom it was convenient, you have to think about it. Those who have abused these days of government are better informed. My friends, what was sweat on Wednesdays and Thursdays? We witnessed how Nikolayenko, Turkinov, Pinzenik took turns in carrying out the Constitution of Ukraine, and we exercised our authority. Who's left today? Let's check this beautiful list: Alexander Morozov, Mikola Pavluk. Well, of course, one needs one to run the port, and the other needs to be intact to run the bank. Sergey Bondarczuk, today, when selling our weapons, it is certainly necessary to have a Ukrainian national deputy, because if he sells accidentally in the Congo, he will have to answer. Victor Boyko, well, our national reserve. There, there is no need to be touched and immune to the future responsibility. Victor Topolow, now in charge of the coal industry as deputy minister of energy, needs to be provided as well. Igor Tarasyuk. I am convinced that the rumors about the 45 million bracelets he received from Bokai as a Moroccan bread product are just rumours like all that involved Igor. Well, and, of course, my pet Peter Dusty. Dear friends, you know, you have to have honor and dignity. We all witnessed what Peter said yesterday. You know how I treat Yushchenk as a politician, but there is a way of treating him as a person. We always greeted him with the birthday of his every daughter and we hurt him for his health. After what Peter said about your leaders, it is a matter of honor for you to place that dot. Today I ask you to put the law of Igor Shurma to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Suprun, please, Ludmila Pavlovna, there is a clarification. What's the point? Who called it? Please, Supruna Ludmila Pavlovna. Dear colleagues, we need to make one point in budgetary legislation. Please listen. I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, yesterday we voted Bill 7653-D. Unfortunately, because of the situation in the hall, we were unable to record the following for the transcript. Considering that the President of Ukraine has already signed the Act of 02.06.2005, No. 2640: "To amend the Law on the State Budget for 2005" (to increase the revenues from the sale of 100 million surplus arms and to direct their Mino Defence to the acquisition of fuel-oil materials, we need to clarify the aggregate figures of income and expenditure in the first article, in the text and in addition to this law. So we ask you, so that this proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, which is now being sounded, must have been provided for in the law that we voted yesterday to clarify the position of income and expenditure, taking into account the law signed by the President. Well, there is a request for a vote to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u45	Dear national deputies, there is a request to support this clarification so that we can take it into account so that we have all the standards. Please vote for this proposal. This will generally sound like a change to the law that is proposed. [[11:29:32]] For 342
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u47	Decision taken. Thank you. What, are we going to the judges? I'm begging you! Give me a chance, please! We are now discussing the issue of judges, 11:30. Please! Please report. Why are you telling me this?Oh, my God! Dear National Deputies! One minute, I'll put it to the vote. What is it? [[N o M e s s a ……]] I need to unlock my work. Sit down, I'll put you to the vote. The Supreme Council won't support it. We won't vote. Please! What are you offering me? [[N o M e s s a ……]] I'll put it to a vote, I'll put it all together. Let's go. I was betting. Why didn’t they come forward and protect me when I was burned here? . The number of these legislative acts, I'll put it to a vote. But then I would ask for a normal attitude if there was no support. What numbers are there? Dear National Deputies! I will now put to the vote to now consider and make decisions on the two bills adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading. This is number 7628, 7700. Members of parliament may be appointed by vote. [[11:32:10]] For 273 Decision taken. I'm asking you to give me these documents. One minute, I'm asking you to give me these papers, and now we're going to consider the question of judges. One minute, let the papers go, please take your seats. Please, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich. One minute, not all of us. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today, we need to consider a large number of judges for their appointment and release. It's about a hundred people, even more. So I'm grateful that you're giving me the opportunity to look at the candidates. First of all, I want to report Bill 7743 on the election of judges to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. You have a draft decision. It is recommended to elect judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in accordance with article 95, paragraph 27, of the first article of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Moisik Volodymira Romanović, Redko Anatolia Ivanovich, Romanyuk Jaroslav Mihajlovich, and Strikalov Eugen Fedorovich. We have the appropriate submission of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Higher Qualifying Commission, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. The committee considered the nominations, no comments. They have great experience and meet all the necessary conditions. So I'm asking you to vote on the draft of Decree 7743.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u49	Warning? Please, Matthew, then Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I draw your attention to the fact that today, Mr. Moses, our colleague, is the head of the Parliamentary Committee, the National Deputy of Ukraine. We cannot make a positive decision on this matter, especially since Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko has so far combined the duties of the Ukrainian national deputy with that of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I ask you to take this into account when determining your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u51	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u52	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine". Vasil Vasilovich, you know, to me, I think, as you, my colleague, have done with that whistle, and this is a violation of the Constitution of co-sponsors. If we don't put an end to this, we don't have anyone to look forward to. That's why I support all of these candidates, especially Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich's candidacy, because it's really a high professional. And after that orange pile of footage, we need to increase the human potential, especially the third branch of power. That's why I'm proposing in Decree 77 43, where it's about Moisik Volodymira Romanović, who says, "with the suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy." It'll be very beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u53	Yes, please, Dobkin. Dopkin, please. Then there's school.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u54	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, I fully support the Deputy Suhigo. I propose to adopt such a decree, which would read: "To elect the Supreme Court of Ukraine without a deadline Mosesik Volodymira Romanović, with the simultaneous termination of his authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. And the third paragraph is to make the following provision: "to relieve the Supreme Court of Ukraine judge Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich in connection with his written statement of 24 March 2003." And by this vote, we will immediately put an end to two more associates: both Moses and Onopenka, who have for almost four years combined two posts: both the People's Chamber and the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u55	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u56	Thank you. Vasil Vasilovich, I, well, first of all, I want to, I think you can confirm that, and I'll tell you right now that there's an explanation as to how much I know of the Supreme Court about the reconciliation of the judge's office. Because it's not a job, it's a title. And I'd like you to make this more clear to the halls, because, well, you can speculate on things, well, not like that. Because it's speculation of law, speculation of the Law, such speculation is the most difficult thing for me. And secondly, I would like to say a few words about short-term court hearings. I want to ask you, when the next candidatures are in place, why is there so much delay in the examination and preparation of the President's Secretariat by one judge and so quickly, so abruptly and so brazenly appointed by other judges. So in three days it was appointed as the head of the Cave Court by a judge from Umani, brought in, appointed, and is now exercising his authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u57	Honourable National Deputies, according to established practice, we have the name Musik Volodymira Romanović, who is the archduke of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for election of judges of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is project 7743, with the exception of Moisik Volodymira Romanović. Then. I'm acting by law and I'm doing the right thing. I beg you, Vladimir, don't blame me. I've already listened today. Please. Then, then. There'll be a word, one minute, and there'll be a word. [[11:38:49]] For 292 Decision taken. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, please. Is there a Volodymyr Romanovich? Microphone, please. Then there's not much left.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u58	But let me also give you, to me the questions were, I have to give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u59	Now, one minute, let Moses speak, and then you will give the general answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. With you, I was elected as Ukraine’s National Deputy in March 2002. On March 12, 2003, I wrote a written statement to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine requesting me to be suspended as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with the transition to permanent employment with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I took a job book from the Supreme Court, handed over a chair, a desk, took a job book to the Supreme Council, and on a permanent basis I work with you in the Supreme Council. The case was referred to the High Council of Justice, which confirmed my right to be released in connection with the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy. For a long time, my application was not considered in the Legal Policy Committee, and on April 11, this year, the 10th term of my tenure as judge ended because I was elected in 1995 before the adoption of the Constitution. So I'm with the colleagues you voted for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u61	Please let me finish. Don't yell, you're not in the congregation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u62	There are three of us who haven't been elected judges on an untimely basis. How should we proceed? I believe that and I ask you to support my election to the judge on an untimely basis and as far as co-existence is concerned. So if Volodymyr Mihajlovich and Valentin Grigorovich consider it compatible, I will definitely comply with the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u63	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194th District, Hmelnichtina, People's Power Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Let's go with you now, we're national MPs and national deputies today, according to the status of the People's Deputies Act, we're going to be national deputies forever. But we're not going to work, let's say, in the next vocation, then we're also going to be left with this title to the National MP. That's what judges do. There is a clear decision here that a judge who does not work, and a elected judge of life by the Supreme Council, once again, is such a law. Or make changes simply to the whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u65	Yes, Your Honor. You're welcome, Mikhailo Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, you know what's been kept behind us as deputies is the last place of work. Behind Moses, there is a previous place of work. But if we don't give him permanent status today, he's out of court, that's where his last job is. That's why I think it's necessary to vote, to support, but he can't work on the sidelines, and he made a statement about what he said. I'm asking you to support this candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u67	Head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, please. Dear colleagues, we can ask the question, and then you can vote. If you want to talk about it, let's figure it out, have a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Vladimir Romanovich, you know very well, and we have spoken to you on this subject many times. And you've admitted that combining the duties of the national deputy and the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is a gross violation of article 81, please excuse me, the Constitution of Ukraine and the articles of the Fifth Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Therefore, there can be no need for us to make a positive decision on your application today. We can only accept a statement that you could now write in the name of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the time-limiting submission of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy and then only make other decisions about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u69	Dear national deputies, according to the Rules, we have discussed. Please take the seat of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I am grateful for this question. Maybe at the end of the day, 90 percent of my colleagues will understand the legal situation around the judges who work here and not just around the judges. Read carefully article 81 of the Constitution, to which reference has been made, raise it. It says, I quote, from memory, that a national MP does not have the right to combine his activities with other activities. If Moses had been chosen, say, by the judges of the Supreme Court, and we would have gone to the Supreme Court, had a salary, had a workbook, dealt with cases, made decisions, carried out judicial activities. This would be the execution of judicial activity. We don't have anything there, we don't even have a chair. That's why. Don't interrupt, I'll tell you for the Constitutional Court's decision. As far as lawyers are concerned, there are prosecutors, the police and the military, and they bear that title. Once their status as national MPs has been terminated, they have the right to take office and work. We have this, if we are to be deprived of the honorary title of judge, we don't have that. And a vivid example of this is the situation around the former National Deputy Victor Shishkin. Another problem: Why couldn’t the committee consider Moses ’ statement and my personal application for our release for so long? The committee has rejected our requests for release and release to the session on the ground that my fellow MPs are here, that we are not only not working as judges, but also being brought to the Constitutional Court, and that question has been decided in court after the Chief of the Supreme Council has brought it to trial. The Constitutional Court returned, after a year of maintaining our claim, and returned and said that some technical issues needed to be worked out. My question, personally, was considered in the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal rejected the submission of the Supreme Council and did not satisfy it. What claims to Moses and to me? So I think today we need to support the position of the committee and the Supreme Court. What's more, I'll tell you that we've studied the experience of many countries in Europe where this is a practice. Moreover, Russia itself has passed a law on what is permitted. There's a representative from the Communists, a lawyer, a national MP who's once again filed a bill saying that this position that I've expressed is supported. So I think there's no mistake. All of this corresponds to the Constitution, the law and the Law on the Status of Judges, which guarantees the judge, if he chooses to take office, to return to work. If this is not done, the judge will not return to the previous position. Please support Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich's candidacy for Judgeship.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u71	A committee proposal is put to the vote: the election of the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Moysik Volodymira Romanović. [[11:48:01]] For 310 Decision taken. Well, I put a committee proposal to the vote. Do I owe it to her or not? What do I know? Tell me, where is the definition, the conclusion is that an unconstitutional position is given by a legal committee? Where is it written, please tell me?Oh, my God! That's what you're saying, and I don't see any document. Please proceed with your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I did not answer the question of School Andrew, but I will then answer later. Draft decision 7744. The committee takes you up on the selection of judges on an untimely basis: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea-Balahonova Boris Lukjanović, Djachenko Love Alexandrovna, Sklarova Viktor Mikolayovich; The Court of Appeal of the Volin Region - Pazuk Alexandre Stepanović; The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region, Drevjanka Alexander Grigorovich; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region -- Billew Olenna Mikolayevna, Pozla Vladimir Vasilovich; The Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district is Kucin Mikolayovich; The Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye County is Lomeyka Valery Alexiyovich, Malowice of Svetlan Volodymyrovn, Destroyer of Eduard Anatolyovich, Fomina Valery Anatoliyovich; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district - Sokolovsky Valery Mikhailovich; To the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Avramenko Mikola Grigorovitch, Kovalenko Valentinina Korniyevna, Assembly Constantine Petrovich, Slipchenka Aleksandra Ivanovich, Taran Tetjana Stepanovna, Trakalo Valentina Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Zvarič Igor Stepanović, Maritczak Taras Mikolaiovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u73	Just a minute. Please, last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u74	Maritzka Taras Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u75	Maritzk. What kind of judgment is this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u76	This is the Lviv Court of Appeal. Cooking and Maritczak. To the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Galuchenko Alexander Ivanovich; Kozachenko Viktor Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Kolesnik, Gregory of Jakovlewich and Mastuk Peter Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Hasia Yuri Volodymyrovich, Milasz Sergija Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Suman district of Shevchenk Vladimir Albertovich; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Olena Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Widowed by Sergio Leonidovich; the local Lenin district court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Trubnik's Jury Leonidovich; the local Dnipropetrovsk District Court of the Dnipropetrovsk Region of Lake Jeanne Mikolayevna; the local Babushkin district court of Dnipropetrovska Tatarchuk Larissa Alexiyevna; the local Irsavsky District Court of the Zakarpatsky District of Markovich Ivan Ivanovich; the local Lenin District Court of Zaporozhye, Laris Anatoliyevna; the local Ivano-Frankiv City Court of Ivano-Frankiv District of Lubomir Evgenovich Island; the local Bilocerkow Regional Court of Kiev, Nevgad Lian Mikolayevna; The local Brovarsky District Court of Kyiv district of Kishin district, Olen Fedorovna; the local Tarsatian District Court of the Kyiv district of Vasilek Oleg Mihajlovich; the local Yellow District Court of Lugansk Slipchenko Ludmila Mikolayevna; the local Lenin District Court of Lugansk Popov Olen Mikhailnovna; the local Snigurov district court of the Mikolai district of Kryla Mikola Dmitrovic; the local Malinov district court of Odessa Jaburiy Alexander Valentinović; the local Romanian District Court of the Suman district of Shunka Grigori Aleksyyyovich; The local Kremenack district court of the Ternopil district of Bilosević Galina Stepanovna; the local Kharkiv District Court of Kharkiv district of Nazarenko Oleg Volodymirovich; The District Court of Kharkiv Musichenko Victoria Alexandrovna; The Scadovian Paradise of the Herson region of Arendovsk, Anatoly Volodymyrovich; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Herson Chebukin Marina Yuriovna; Isaslav District Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u77	Just a minute. What? Please. Orendowski, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u78	Chebukina Maria Yuriovna
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u79	Or Chebukina Maria Yuriovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u80	It's Herson Chebukin's daytime cruise, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u81	Chebukina?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u82	Dniprova’s Paradise of Herson, Chebukin Isalav Rajsod of the Hmelnicke District of Janěvsk Oksana Stanislavna; The local Zolitani District Court of the Cherkas region of Matvienko Maria Volodymyrovna, Mishenko Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich; The New Zealand District Court of Chernigov, Filatov Larissa Borisovna; The court-martial of the Black Garrison of Kovaljuk Jaroslav Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! We remove the names of the judges Igor Stepanovich, Maritczak Taras Mikolaiovich and Chebukin Marina Yuriovna. We put everyone else to the vote. No warning? A duck, please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Honorable Fellow National MPs! It seems to me that we should make a point in our practice. It's called the name of the deputies, obviously there are MPs who represent this region, they're familiar with these people, and they have to make warnings. When he makes a warning to the MP that the Lviv area on the map will be difficult to show, he will now give warnings to the people. We decide the fate of these people. I think we have to make some changes in our procedure, and if he has any warnings, then he goes to his representative in this area and he speaks, and he makes these warnings. And so we just, you know, turn it into something not very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u85	I think we're going according to the rules and regulations. Because, by law, because if we follow that principle, we will have, every deputy will have his own judges. And it'll give them preference, or other moments. Culchinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honorary Vassil Vasilovich, I would like to postpone to the next session the election of the first deputy judge of the Poltavian Court of Appeal, Milos Sergey Pavlovich, because when it became known in the area and in the city of his election on an untimely basis, literally in the last days a number of calls have been made to my address, indicating a certain lack of objectivity and a certain dependence on the Polish city authorities. Regrettably, investigating, examining these references, collecting the relevant documents and passing them on to the committee was not quite the time. Because, in principle, I don't know the work of this judge, but I don't care about the calls of the electorate, and because of that, I ask you to put it back to the next session, if I could do all these appeals, properly investigate, collect a written witness and submit it to you to the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u87	Yes, please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u88	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I understand there have been a number of complaints before the Committee about Judge Matvienko in the Golden District of the Cherkas region. This complaint says that this judge is quite often violating the rules of procedural and material law, leading to the annulment of these decisions in the appeal. At what stage and have you considered these complaints, do you recommend that we vote in favour of this judge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, we remove from this list the names of Matvienko, Chibukina, Milash, Zvaric and Mariczak. [[This is Goldilocks.]] [[Dniprovsky District Court of Herson]] [[Court of Appeal of Poltava Region]] [[This is the Court of Appeal in Lviv.]] All the others, we vote by decree. Shurma, please. Then. One minute, okay. Storm, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u90	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing the judges who are awaiting today's decision of the Supreme Council. I would like to state the position of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] We have a claim to the vast majority, if not to all the judges who are in the hall today. But we declared it a month and a half ago and we stand in our position. As long as the Kyiv Court of Appeal does not rule on the 13 people whose photos are shown at the Presidency, the faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine will not vote. [[united]] For you to know who is delaying the court’s decision, I will read to you: The powder is three times considered by Gorelkin; Boyka - Omelin; Steckova - Lapchevska; Tarasyuka - Osipenko; Topolova - Slusar; Shevchenko - Stepasco; Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u91	Please, School, then Gabrieluk Vasil, then Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vassil Vasilovich, I would like to say a few words in support of a colleague of the National MP on the subject of the Lion Judges. I'm really from Lviv, and I know Judge Zvaric, who's being tried for parentheses there, is a qualified, powerful judge. It's just that I'm surprised that it's the same thing as both lion judges. As a representative of Lviv, I had no warning to these judges. On the contrary, I have my thanks to Judge Zvaric. I would simply like this situation to be considered wisely. I'd like to look to my fellow national MPs, and I want to support them, because they're really qualified, they're really balanced, they're really judges who are sounding laws, not anyone's interests. Maybe someone doesn't like it, but the law is strict and they act by law. And I would still like, Vasil Vasilovich, to point out my question, because I know that both Zvaric and they're long enough to wait for their nomination here to come to the Supreme Council. And here's the head of the Cave Court in three days. How legitimately this interests me and how much this is a rule for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u93	Yes, Gavriluk, please, just so that you can have Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to address everyone. I know Nikolai Grigorovich Kulczynski as a principled deputy from the Poltava region, but I think he was misinformed about the first Deputy Court of Appeal of Poltav district Milas Sergey Pavlovich. I know him as a principled person, and today there is a struggle to ensure that there are no such people in the judiciary. This is how we regularly deal with the decisions of the courts that make hair look like hair. Therefore, I am asking that Miloš be voted in favour, not in brackets, but in favour of him, together with everyone. That's the first one. And the second. My friends, we remember you and I, and we know how long we've been in suspension. Let's give people a chance to work. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, let's do this. [[One minute.]] If you have warnings about individuals, you call them names, and according to procedure and law, we take them out for parentheses, voting for everyone, and then we discuss them in person. Let's move away from the agitation. Please, Sinchenko, what kind of candidate do you have a warning about?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u96	First, I wanted to ask Vasil Vasilovich about Judge Vasilska, Lugansk. Is this Vasilenko whose Supreme Council of Ukraine has already refused to approve twice or three times his termless election as judge or not? If that is the case, I strongly object to his granting judgeship.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u97	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u98	Where twice the Supreme Council of Ukraine has refused to elect an open-ended judge, no committee, no Supreme Court, no Supreme Court, no Higher Qualifying Commission, especially after the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law, which we passed here more than a year ago, on the indefinite election of judges. We obey the law clearly, and we do not break it either.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u99	Yes, dear colleagues, about the names. Please, Sulkovsky, then Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" greatly respects the present judges, respects the previous judges. You remember that at the previous meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u101	As for the names, please, for the names, this is not a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u102	there was no vote. That's why I think, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we didn't have to do this today, because voting might not be for the benefit of these judges, and not because we don't want to do it, but in principle it was for the judges to take a preliminary decision, the last thing that happens is that when the co-conspirators don't have powers, we're not going to make a decision to approve the judges, that's what the point is today. Not because we don't respect judges today or because we don't. The principle assessment should be the national deputies of Ukraine before the previous decision: until the last co-conspirator forms a mandate that violates the law and the Constitution of Ukraine, we simply take such a position, we occupy the national deputies in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u103	Yes. Yavorowski, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u104	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Yavorov, Zovkla. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable Parliament of Ukraine! From what we can tell, we might want to make a brain attack like this, probably in the next session, and think again about the procedure itself. We can see for ourselves that she is imperfect. It's very easy for one of us to rule out a common list of candidates -- on one side. On the other hand, we sometimes take a vote with a spear. But this is, as it were, an assignment for tomorrow. I took the floor to say again, since the general list of judges of the Lviv Court of Appeal of Zvaric has been drawn up, I would like to say that I, as a deputy from Lviv, have a huge claim to the Court of Appeal: and I have a lengthy hearing of cases, there is much more to it, they are under political influence. But in order to strengthen this court, I would very much like to vote in favour of these people. They're people who aren't involved, they're highly professional. And I would very much like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u105	Voline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u106	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I have a question regarding the work of Judge Ilciev of the local court of Vergupal Kostin Viktorovich. An independent trade union at the Illichev International Port presented documents to the committee, and there were quite violent violations. This judge was influenced by the direction of the Illichev Trade Port. All appeals to the court of the port employees are ignored, some are in the institutions, various courts for two years. I'm asking you to put his name out of the box.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u107	Where is it? What's your last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u108	Vergupalo Costin Viktorovich, Ilchiv local court
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u109	He's not in this draft decision. Obviously, it's in another draft of the decree. We're looking at the draft of Decree 7744, there's no last name. Dear National Deputies, we remove from the list the draft decree, namely, 7744 names Zvaric, Maricak, Milash, Chebukin and Matvienko. Please, from the motives of Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u110	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. I want to tell my colleagues and the judges that we have some objections to individual judges' candidatures, but in general our position has been fixed before. The Communist faction will not take part in the vote at the confirmation of the judges until all of these fellow MPs have been authorized or decided on by the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u111	Please, Your Honor, put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "The election of judges." Registration number 7744. With the exception of the surnames: Zvaricz, Mariča, Milash, Chebukina, and Matvienko Please vote. [[12:07:47]] For 266 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Igor Stepanovich's cook, please come to the microphone. To the microphone, Zvaric Igor Stepanovich. Please, it's Yuri Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, I am the national deputy of Ukraine, not of a particular region, and I am concerned about any corner of our country and our people. I would like to propose this question to Igor Stepanovich Zvaric. I had a group of voters at my reception. And they testified that there were apparently facts of an unbiased hearing on your part about the conviction of Mrs. Kushinski, who was charged with organizing and committing the murder of Levian physician Tsenowski and entrepreneur Drozhal. An even more disturbing case was the prosecution of Přístavsky, three times earlier a judge who was accused of deliberately killing two or more people. That's why I'd like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u113	Please, where is Boiler Igor Stepanovich? Please answer your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u114	I'm on the balcony. Mr. Igor Stepanovich, Court of Appeal of Lviv Region, has been authorizing the head of the court for a year in criminal matters. For 17 years, while serving as a judge of the local Galician court and now as an appeal court, I had no complaints about hearing cases. And just two weeks ago, at the committee hearing, it was precisely a complaint from the respectable Communists on these two cases, which were heard by five judges in 1998 and 2002. These two cases were handled by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. It was on these two matters that I answered the committee very clearly because until the day I heard it on the committee that I didn’t know that such complaints could come to me. I know why it's all about me. Maybe it's because I'm in charge of the head of the Chamber, and for many, especially the criminality of Lviv and other regions, that I don't want to be able to take up this position. It's about these things. The first case was the subject of an appeal. At that time, from the Lviv District Court. The court ruled against Mrs. Koshinsky and others. On these grounds, where there was no evidence, the court gave a c. study. The case was considered by the Supreme Court. In the hearing of those who had been tried, the Supreme Court had softened the penalties by leaving the sentence in general. Where the trial was conducted, after I was followed by another person who had been sentenced, the sentence also became legal. It's about hearing the case with regard to the playwright. The court also, where I was made up of five judges three years ago, handed down a sentence, a legal sentence, and a sentence handed down by the Supreme Court. On some occasions, the court sentenced the defendant to the time when he was now sentenced, setting maximum penalties. As for the other episodes, he justified it. I personally believe that the sentence is just and legal, and my opinion, particularly after this sentence, is because Mr. Solomonin points out that there are problems after this judgment. If, I believe, the court acquitted him of the lack of conviction, then the court’s authority would have to grow further because the committee’s complaint raised such a question, which is how the court’s authority is supported by the individual and the person in charge of the criminal court, if justified. I don't think it's from the number of convicts, although he's been convicted on other episodes, and by the number of acquitted persons, the authority of the court should be raised, particularly in the Lviv region. That's essentially what these things are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u115	Please sign up, three minutes. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Kosov Mikhailo, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u116	Mikhailo Kosov, "Our Ukraine." I wanted to speak out on the basis of the vote. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The occupying principle of hostages cannot be applied in the Supreme Council. It was only during World War II that the Fascists decimated innocents in nothing, for they said other things were done there. These associates have no bearing on the judges we are considering. And applying the hostage principle in the Supreme Council is just a monster of some kind. Now, second. I fully agree with you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that we cannot only deputize the district concerned, as it were, to influence the life of the judges, but we do know the situation in the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u117	Domansky Anatoly, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Note that this judge explains his right or wrong, calling the Communists or the other parties. This does not give the judge the right to appreciate a communist or a socialist. For him. is a Ukrainian citizen. What does he use these categories for? He's politically focused. You can't do that. For him is a citizen of Ukraine and a law, and a Communist or a socialist is a human right. So I think we should look at this person if he's already expressing his views to the politicians today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u119	Korj, please, faction of the Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u120	The word is given to Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u121	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable judges, distinguished fellow members of the national MPs, I have already spoken and said that here, indeed, I do not understand the principle that the Levite judges were both drawn by parentheses. Because it's really the judges who have a good opinion in Lviv, there are no warnings about their activities to me. On the contrary, there are thanks, there are support, I would like both Judge Zvaric and Judge. Chuck was chosen, voted in the session room. In particular, when it comes to the consideration of Judge Zvaric, I will stress once again that only the support of the candidate is coming from the region. I call on all the national MPs to support this candidature by unanimous vote, because it does indeed have no relation to the accomplices and to the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u123	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u124	Rudkowski, Socialist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I think it is necessary to determine by voting on this candidate. The judge explained his position on each of the cases and did not need to be trained here. And I'm now addressing the judges of the Court of Appeal and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court: you see, if I have four cases of depriving people, and it's clearly written in the Constitution, it undermines the authority not only of the Supreme Council but also of the judiciary. If it is clearly recorded, we need to be determined by the national MPs and not discredit our system. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to be Law 7311, which we need to vote now after the reserve has been filled, because we, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, have no opportunity to intervene in the food market. 73 Needs
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u125	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, you've exchanged your thoughts. The statement has been completed. The final position of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I answer Yuri Solomatin as much as I answer to all of you. There can be no extracurricular control over the judges. The decision itself does not hold the judge responsible. If it's not intentional. If there has been a breach of oath, we do not recommend such judges to the Supreme Council. We sent you materials more than a month ago, two months ago. You've met. Only now is the question of Boiler, another. I mean, we've been going through the Weeds a lot. There is a ruling of the Court of Appeal, there is a decision of the Supreme Court, a dot. Everything else, you already know just emotions and stuff. We're asking you to support the cook's candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u127	The candidate, Zvarič Igor Stepanović, is the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region. [[12:18:09]] For 265 Decision taken. Yes, please, Maritczak Taras Mikolaiovich, please come up and turn on Yuri Solomatina’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, in this case I will refer not only to the opinion of the voters who were at my reception, but also to. The public of the lions and this. published in an article in the Lviv newspaper of June 30, this year, "The Court of the Forgotten Armageddon." It is here that Honorable Judge Taras Mikolaiovich Maritczak unreasonably delayed the trial of the tragic death of four children on October 30, 1998 and the mutilation of 15 children in the movie theater "Ukraine" of the city of Red Town, which resulted in no compensation for the victims and crippled children to this day. I have a big question for that very reason. Not just me, but also the lioness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u129	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u130	We've been discussing this on the committee. The committee supports Mariczak Taras Mikolaiovich. There's no claim to it. And what is a problem with the execution of a court decision is not a problem for Judge Marichuk. That's the problem with the authorities of the state. There's a minister of justice, he can confirm that, and go to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, a motion is put to the vote for a committee to elect Judge Mariczak Taras Mikolaiovich, the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region. [[12:20:20]] For 257 Decision taken. Milash Sergei Pavlovich, Court of Appeal in Poltava. Please come to the microphone. Who gave the warning? Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u132	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I asked that I have time to make appropriate calls to the committee because it was all the voters who called me yesterday, the other night on the phone. That doesn't mean anything. I'm not personally familiar with Milach's judicial activity, but I can't ignore these calls. As a result, I asked to postpone this decision for September or October. That's a pretense. We have to put it to a vote, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u133	Please sign up for this. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u134	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, the Honourable Head, are honorable candidates in the positions of judges. The thing is, we don't have to torpedo the process today and do some kind of social commitment to a date like this. We have an obligation to choose judges in the best way possible and in a manner that is in keeping with our own interests and the interests of our electorate. In no way does Mr. Mikoli Kulczynski's proposal mean that the petitioner will be removed or annulled knowingly without considering the documents, but we must respect the position of the electorate, who, upon learning that he will have such an appointment, want to submit their positions or observations or appeals. If they prove to be significant, the commission will make a decision if we make decisions that are irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u135	Yes, please, Vladimir Novak, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u136	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please give my word to my colleague at the Masenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u137	Masenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u138	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. The thing is, I always stand up for the position that the election of judges on an untimely basis is not a normal situation in our country. But since we already have this procedure under the rule of law, I have repeatedly protested against it with Mikola Grigorovitch Kulczynski just as Sergio Pavlovich Miloš has no claim at all. Because I think I'm the biggest person in the world who's interested in making wrong decisions. As for Sergei Pavlovich Milash, there is absolutely no claim against him from the electorate or from the political parties. So I would like to support this candidacy, but only because I'm bound by a faction decision and I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u139	Verni Dubov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u140	Dear comrades, once again we are forced to make a negative assessment of a person, in this case a great judge with great experience, a great deal of practical experience. And Kulczynski doesn't even make any claims, please, please, I'll study. You could have done it sooner. On the other hand, I've heard about this person, although he's from another region, beautiful words like a professional, just about a person, about a judge with a conscience. We must therefore vote in favour of him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u141	Please take the seat of the committee. Oh, we still have it. Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! There's a committee position, and probably there, we're always talking to you about professionally understood and qualified to make proposals. Therefore, if we begin to break the established procedure now, we will bring this situation into chaos. Who's gonna win this, the Supreme Council, the judges, the society, the state? Well, it's hard to understand this situation. Therefore, from this point of view, I believe that if there is a decision by the committee of the profile where people have come to terms, there is a consistent motivation for our possible vote, so let us vote. Well, why are we setting precedents for a new judicial approval procedure? It's complicated enough for us anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u143	Yes, the distinguished national deputies, what position? Before you decide, please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u144	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I still wish that when we recommend judges, we would choose them so that we would follow the law. None of you have filed any complaints about Milosch before the committee. What's more, it's got very good features, great experience. But I understand, I'm asking that you all be allowed to withdraw the candidacy of Milos Sergey Pavlovich, because "Our Ukraine," they won't vote. And if you do. And that's going to be a problem. The only problem is arithmetic, you know what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u145	So, what is the position of the committee, whether we vote or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u146	Questions. The committee's proposal is to vote and support. There was no objection, there was a great deal of experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u147	There is a motion for a committee to vote on the election of Miloš Sergija Pavlovich to the judge on an uninterrupted basis, this is the Court of Appeal of the Poltava Region. Please vote. [[12:26:39]] For 244 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communist faction - 52, "Ukrainian Regions" - 27, National Party - 42, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 12, UNP - 12, "One Ukraine" - 20, SDPU - 9, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Afterfractional" - 14. Please come to the microphone. Who made the warning. Chubarov's reaction, please. Chubarov's microphones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I apologize to the candidate for Judge Chebukin, but I just have no other way out of this to draw our attention to the extremely unsatisfactory work of the Hersonian judicial system. Yesterday he died at the hospital of a 70-year-old pensioner named Skadowska, who, in disagreement with the Court of Appeal's decision, burned himself up. He wanted to protect the rights of a group of motor vehicles. Now here in the square today was the attempt at self-incineration of Lechchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich of Kakhovka. Vladimir Stretovich, Alexander Tkalenko, went out and talked. The point is that once again a person cannot protect his or her right to personal property in judicial institutions. This indicates that there is simply a crisis in the judicial system of the Hersonian region. And that's why I would think that the relevant committees of the Supreme Council need to get to the bottom of this system right now, in this situation. And before that, we just don't have to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u149	So you're taking your warnings off? Please, Chubar's microphone. Chubarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u150	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if our respective committees now say they're going to deal with the situation today, to the extreme extent that the people in the square, I'm clearly taking down my objection to Chebukin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u151	Please, committee, position. One minute: the committee, there's another position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u152	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, to Chebukin's, and they've been looking into Chebukin's question, there's no claim. There are court cases she's dealt with. And perhaps someone, as usual, was dissatisfied. As for the situation in the courts, I'll tell you that we are now actively working on the amendments to the Judicial Act, the status of judges, and in general the judicial reform and the autumn, we will bring to your attention the relevant projects. It will be softened in connection with January 1st’s introduction. September 1st of the new Civil Procedure Code and the new Code of Administrative Justice. We know about these problems, and if there are any specific claims related to the improper activity of the judges, please hand over the materials and Refata Chubarov please, send us to the committee. We will take seriously the study of these complaints and make appropriate decisions. Either we, or we'll send it to the judges' council or the appropriate commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u153	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u154	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Well, first of all, I have a candidate. Previously, Vladimir Demyokin and I had our warnings. Then I had to communicate with the law enforcement authorities, go to court, and so forth. So we got answers to questions about this candidate, and I don't have any warnings. As for Vladimir Mikhailovich, I also want to ask Vasil Vasilovich. Remember, the last time we approved the judges, I made a suggestion to you, and you also gave a commission to the Legal Committee. That, at the local level and at the national level, we should provide for a common procedure for the discussion of judges who are preparing for approval. But the session is closing, and unfortunately, the legal committee has given us nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u155	Vasil Vasilovich, criticism is fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u156	Criticism is partly fair because part of the issues you raise are decided in the law on the indefinite election of judges. There are reports in the media, and reports by MPs no less than a month and some other questions. So that there are still problems with the selection of personnel today, we are changing the law on the judiciary, including the chapter on the qualification commissions. We're moving out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u157	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, a motion is put to the vote by the committee to elect Chebukin Marin the Jury judge on an untimely basis. This is the local Dniprov district court of Herson. Please vote. [[12:32:17]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Matvienko Maria Volodymyr, please come to the microphone. Who expressed warnings, respected colleagues regarding Matthewnko? Ah, John the Rabbit. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u158	John the Rabbit faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Your Honor! I have a lot of claims here that complain that you're being treated unqualifiedly, prejudiced that you often violate the norms of procedural and material law. And in particular, there's one thing I'm looking at is a corruption offense. And your decision has been overturned by the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district. And it says here why it was canceled, what actually comes out is that your decision is illegal and so on. Please tell me how many decisions you have and how many have been cancelled in the appeal order or in some other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u159	Of all the criminal cases that I have dealt with in five years, two were abolished. Of all the civil matters that I have considered, nine have been overturned, and one decision on corruption has been overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u160	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Listen to the statistics. In five years two sentences, nine decisions are civil matters. I'll tell you that everyone has the right to make a mistake in accordance with the law on the status of judges. Where the Court of Appeal, or the Supreme Court, has a separate decision, the reaction to the action of the judge. But you can talk about disciplinary responsibility. I'll tell you that for such a quality a judge should be presented to the reward, not some kind of ban on activity. Ivan Ivanovich, I've always considered you an objective person, but no matter what relationship we have, why didn't you hand these materials over to us to the Committee? They're not sent to us, I've never heard of them. And the quality, I told you how beautiful this judge is. Right now, we're doing these disassemblies at the Supreme Council session.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to the vote on the proposal of the Committee for the election of Matvienko Maria Volodymyr the judge on an uninterrupted basis. This is the local Zolitani District Court of Cherkas. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:35:31]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Let's take the next Order, please. Station 70.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u163	Project 7745.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, 7745 Order, please take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u165	Dear colleagues. Yes, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Choose judges on an untimely basis: To the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Muravyov Aleksija Valentinović, Rogach Larissa Ivanovna; The Donetsk Court of Appeal of the House of Volkov Roman Volodymyrovich, Moskal's Irina Vasilovna; The Zitomir Farm Court of Appeal, Ionnik Irina Anatoliyevna; The impugned appeals court of Kriszmarzewski Vladimir Anatoliyovich, Hoothorne Vitali Mihajlovich; Kyiv's Court of Appeal Kota Alexandr Vasilovich; Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal, Tkachenka Boris Alexandrovich; Sevastopol Economic Court of Appeal Volkov Kostin Volodymyrovich; To the Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Guyvoron Crimea Vladimir Ivanovich, Omelchenka Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, Osochenko Ines Kostinovna; the local court of the Kirovograd district of Makarenko Tetjan Volodymyrna. There are no claims, no complaints, there are all the necessary documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u166	No warnings from your respectable colleagues? A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 7745]] Please vote. [[12:37:26]] For 209 Honorable colleagues, or if there are no warnings, let us not make decisions or make decisions. Who's to go back to the draft decision. [[Registration number 7745]] Please vote. [[12:37:55]] For 251 We returned to the decision. Who's in charge of accepting a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 7745]] Please vote. [[12:38:19]] For 270. Decision taken. Next draft of Decree 7746.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u167	7663, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u168	No, 7746 here, as next, if from this filet. It's about Sushi's Arkady Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, this is Susivov Arkady Ivanovich, whose committee does not recommend the election of a judge because of the low quality, the very heavy burden. And the committee unanimously does not recommend that a judge be elected. But according to the Rules, we make choices. However, the position of the committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the first motion to elect a judge on an untimely basis, Sisovov Arkady Ivanovich, this is the local Zaporozhye County Court of Zaporozhye. Registration number 7746. The position of the committee to your knowledge has been proven. [[12:39:40]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Yes, please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u171	Thank you. 7663. It is recommended that the judges be elected on an uninterrupted basis. To the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Soboluk Mikolaiovich. However, I must point out that on July 6, a complaint came to the committee from the disabled man of the Great War of the Second Colonic Group, in which he believed that the judge had broken his oath, allowed wrong, unfaithful, unobjective action. We have not been able to verify this complaint, as you understand. That's why it's for your own good.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u172	What is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u173	The committee's position is chosen, but there's a complaint that's not checked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u174	Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u175	Chapko Vladimir Vasilievich to the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region. The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Bulenko Alexandro Alexiyovich The Court of Appeal of the Suman district of Basov Ivan Yuhimovich The Court of Appeal of the Sherson district of Sikorski Vír Pavlovna Court of Appeal of the Czernigiv district of Bilobrov Vasil Dmitrovic The Court of Appeal of the Southern Region of Minnail Mikola Pavlovich The railway district court of Simferopol Igor Anatoliyovich. Teresian City Court of the Donetsk Region of Savko Sergija Alexandrovich Chrimljeva Alexandre Hennadyovich to the Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Berdichov City Court of the District of Žitomir, Koranjuk Olen Leonidavna The Zitomir district court in Nisersky Inna Volodymyrna district. Mukachev City Court of Zakarpatsk district of Demchenka Sergey Mikolayovich Tokmatic District Court of Zaporozhye District Igor Glibovich The factory district court of Zaporozhye Marcenko Ninel Valerovna Hortical District Court of Zaporozhye Pankeyev Aleksandra Viktorovich; the local Tisminicki District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Strutinski Ruslan Romanović; The Swatov District Court of Lugansk Region; The North London City Court of the Luhansk Region of Alexandrov Natalija Valentinovna; Stahanov City of Luhansk Region, Bondarenko Natalija Alexiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u176	Yeah, one minute. There's a warning from North London, isn't there? Please, it's freezing. Tell me exactly what you're talking about. Then Ioff.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u177	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, reverend Vasil Vasilovich! Judge Ushatia. A request to postpone. A restricted area, the city of Tokmak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u178	Yes, we did. Please, Ioffe microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u179	I have no objection to Alexander's, but I wanted to point out that there's a dragon there in Severodoneck, it's already six times or they're trying to push. It's true, we got it. And I wasn't invited to the committee. I'm paying attention to Mr. Onopenek. There's no claim from Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u180	Thank you. Tissue, please. Last name. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u181	Tkalenko Alexander, National Movement of Ukraine, Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine". There is a question for the judge of the Sikorsky Court of Appeal and not so much for her, but I would ask. Herson's Court of Appeal. I'd like to ask you to put the question aside, since Chubarov has already spoken, the second self-inflicted by the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region. There are very serious problems. I'd like to ask you to put that question away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u182	Thank you. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u183	Stahanov’s City of Luhansk Region, Bondarenko, Natalia Alexiyivna, Sambir Meskraysud of the region of Lviv, Marchuk Ivan Stepanović; Illyjiv City Court of the Odessa Region of Vergopoulos, Constantine Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u184	Volintz, please, microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u185	I'm asking you to take the parentheses for that name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u186	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u187	Vergopula, Illichev local court
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u188	The Killia District Court of the Odessa District of Grjekov-Rozna Margarita Zechariah; Koselščina District Court of Poltava District Okun Tetjana Viktorovna; The Provincial District Court of Kharkiv Hayduk Ludmila Petrovna; The Kyiv District Court of Harkova Senate Valerija Mihajlovich; The Red Plant District Court of Harkova Andruszczenko Natalija Mikolaynowna; The Shepetian Miscraid of the Hmelnicke District of Brezov Irina Alexiyevna; The right-wing District Court of Kyiv Shorty Andrija Yuriovich; Obolonian Paradise of Kiev Buravlova Sergija Ivanovich; The Cave district court of Kyiv Volkov Svetlana Jakovna and Grimic Maja Kostinenovna; Kryev Kryoviaza Andrija Petrovicz, District Court of Kryev There is an appeal by Vladimir Stretovich to the Committee on Combating Organized Crime for appropriate abuses. This address came in on 07.07. The year is 05 C.E. That's why we have to do a background check on this complaint.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u189	A Guilt?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u190	The guilty one, Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u191	Well, that's how we end up with parentheses.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u192	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that Sikorski Víra Pavlovna, Ošatni Igor Glibovich, Vergopoulos Constantine Viktorovich, and Andrija Petrovic’s Crevisa be removed from the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u194	And, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u195	And the first is Mikhail Mikolaiovich's Soboluk. With this in mind, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges, registration number 7663. Please vote. [[12:46:24]] For 247 Decision taken. Yes, Soboluk Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, this is the seat of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u196	I've already said there's a complaint about a disabled man in the Great Homeland War. I think we need to be careful about how objective it is. So I ask you to go beyond consideration to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u197	Well, let's postpone consideration then. No objections? Yes, Sikorska Vera Pavlovna, Hersonian is an area. Who, respected colleagues, made warnings? Tissuenco, please, microphone. Tealenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u198	Weed, that's right. Tkalenko Alexander, National Movement of Ukraine, Yushchenka Block faction "Our Ukraine". I have not so many questions about the Faith of Paul Sikorsky as I do about the system that has been established for many years in the Herson Court of Appeal. I would ask, and we will address the President today, to create a special commission, and a government, including the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, to consider the issue that is being created today, the situation that is being created in the Hersonian region in general, and in the judiciary, in the Court of Appeal in particular. So I'd like to ask you to put this question aside before we bring you up together at the Herson Court of Appeal. Two self-inflicted burns in three days is talking about something. The system's probably chroming.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u199	Please, Vasil Vasilovich, what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, here is the acting Head of the Supreme Court, Peter Philippchuk. I think he can give the right explanation. We, and none of the deputies, have claims to the very faith of Paul of Sikorsky. What is the problem, perhaps in Hersonsky’s court, is related to his activity, we are willing to turn around and consider the problems there. But why is Sikorsky here? We have the individual responsibility of a particular judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the committee’s proposal to elect Sikorna’s Faith is open to the judge. This is the Herson County Court of Appeal. Please vote. [[12:49:04]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Ears. Igor Glibovich, please come to the microphone. Anatoly Frost, your guards.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u202	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I have a warning. I have been approached by a great many voters with complaints against Judge Ushatov Igor Glibovich. Well, there's a lot of examples. For example, there was a fight at the cafe, the police refused to violate the criminal case of two women, the judge intervened, the prosecutor violated the criminal case, and today in Zaporozhye, false witnesses and so on. You can give an example on the road, when the police, the DAI, agreed on who. The participants in this crash agreed in a peaceful manner to solve this case, once again the judge intervenes, opens the case and so on, and so forth. Question three. There's the Dagestan cafe. In general, the prosecution’s criminal case against the judge is violated. Until this issue is resolved, I find it appropriate not to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u203	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u204	The committee has considered these complaints and we have the conclusions of the Ukrainian judges, the relevant decisions of the Qualifying Commissions, which recommend Ushatova Igora Glibovič as a judge. As for the criminal case, I'll tell you that we have already had experience working in the Supreme Council with many courts. There is a presumption of innocence regarding both the judge and the MP, and anyone who has no conviction. Let us abide by the Constitution and the rule of law. Therefore, the committee supports Ushatov Igor Glibovich as judge of the local Tokmatic District Court of Zaporozhye.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u205	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting on the proposal of the Ushatov Igor Glibovich to the judge on an uninterrupted basis, this is the local Tokmak District Court of Zaporez. [[12:51:36]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Yes, please, now Vergopulo Constantine Viktorovich. Wolverine microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u206	We filed a complaint with the committee. I can now highlight a few examples of violations on the Vergupalo side, which have become entirely dependent on the administration of the Illyev Seaport, and all appeals by workers in connection with illegal punishment are in favour of the administration. For example, Saiko’s claim has taken him two years to go through various institutions. Then 66 employees in 2003 were sentenced in administrative order and were denied a bonus, a benefit was withdrawn, and the judge refused to accept their applications. Komarov, who was also illegally released. As a result of his initiative, the judge turned to the superior trade union and accepted her release. Another judge was reinstated at work. A professional activist named Victor Stepanov was not allowed to protect an enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u207	What is the position of the committee in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! Let me give you a more detailed answer to that question. And, Mikhail Yakovich, don't be offended, although we are colleagues in one faction, I will still report the committee's decision and my own opinion, because this is an objective position. In fact, there was a complaint by Saiko that discipline would be lifted, and the court refused. The decision was filed, the appeal went through, and now it's in the Supreme Court. Therefore, it is the prerogative of the Supreme Court, not of the national deputies, to judge faithfully or untruely. Next thing. Complaints, Komarov's application for reinstatement at work and payment of salary. Indeed, the court’s decision in the lawsuit was rejected, and the local court’s decision was left unchanged by the Court of Appeal. What claims to court? Next. Complaints from port officials about the illegal actions of the port manager Jeremenko The decision in the lawsuit was rejected by an appeal decision of the Court of Appeal, the decision was overturned, and the case was referred to a new hearing. This is in line with existing legislation. What decision will be taken is the right of the court. And also, Mikhailo Yakovitch appealed to Jarova, who complained about the judge's actions, who, in her opinion, had decided to opt for a precautionary custody measure in a criminal case for accusing her son of committing a robbery. She felt that this was not done properly. Legality, the validity of the decision to maintain this precaution under guard was checked by the Court of Appeal. Left unchanged. Thus, it is said that there can be no claim to a judge. The committee supports the role of Judge Ilchiv City Court candidate Vergopoulos.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u209	A motion is made to the Committee for the election of Judge Vergopull Kostin Viktorovich, a local Illich city court in the Odessa region. Please vote. [[12:55:45]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Yes. The guilty one, Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u210	I ask, Your Honor, to withdraw from the list of Mr. Andri Petrovich's candidature, since there is a petition by Vladimir Stretovic, who believes that there are certain questions and related to the breach of an oath. We need to examine this appeal carefully. Put it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u211	Let's put it down. Yes. Next order, it's 7739, right? About the release of the judges?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, the final draft of the Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u213	No, we still have 2 more, 7664 and 7739. Both the first and the second decree on the release of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u214	Yes. It is proposed that the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Davidenka Valerija Vasilovich, be dismissed in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye district of Ilimov Petra Mikolaiovich in connection with his 65 years; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Rhineland District of Dougaluk Vadim Grigorovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Didik Semina Petrovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Simferopol District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Epiximov Eugen Vasilovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Black Sea District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Nadženko Vasil Vasilovich; Judge of the Lithuanian District Court of Wynnicko District of Boyko Maria Mikhailovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Orikhov District Court of Zaporozhye District of Hadji Viktor Grigorovitch in connection with the application for resignation. However, I am asking to exclude Hadji Viktor Grigorovich's candidacy, because today his application has come to the Supreme Council, where he is withdrawing his application for release and resignation. We need to deal with the High Council of Justice. Judge of the Pologov District Court of the Zaporozhye district of Matvienka Mikol Andriyovich in connection with the application for a state of health pension which prevents the continuation of the duties; Judge of the Golovanów District Court of Kirovograd district of Burkovsk Vladimir Gavrilovich in connection with the filing of the resignation application; Judges of the Krasnodon District Court of the Luhansk district of Grgornk Yuri Alexiyyovich in connection with the application for resignation; Jadana Vasil Vasilovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Lysican City Court of Luhansk, Matthew Vladimir Ivanovich, in connection with the application for release at his own request. Judge Lutugini District Court of Lugansk, Agjevo Dmitry Sergiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Malinović of the District Court of Odessa, Malia Anatolia Makarović, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Krasnopil district court of the Sumak district of Primok Aleksija Fedorović in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Hmelnick District Court of the Hmelnick district of Sidorski Valerij Semenović in connection with the application for a state of health pension that prevents the continuation of duties. Judge of the local military court of Poltava mountainizon Zaporozhye Vladimir Anatoliyevich in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u215	Honourable National Deputies, with the exception of Hadji Viktor Grigorovitch's last name, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the release of judges registration number 7664. Please vote. [[13:00:15]] For 256 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u216	Thank you. Draft decree 1739 on the dismissal of judges from their respective positions. Judge of the Central District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Lukyanko Marina Alexandrovna in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Judge Dark Larissa Volodymyrne in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. We have an application from the High Council of Justice where these judges have been thoroughly examined and the Committee considers the application of the Superior Council of Justice to be objective and consistent with the current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u217	A black mic, please. [[You don't have any bars there.]] . Please. Well, let's go to the rostrum, it'll be faster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u218	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, first of all, I want us to thank those judges who have resigned because today the best and those who have served many people are retiring. Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetsk, by the way. That's a first. And secondly, I didn't get a chance yesterday because we've been here all this time finding out about the Soviet laws, yes, yesterday, the day of death, of a remarkable man who defended freedom in Ukraine, Igor Alexandrov. He was beaten like a dog with golf clubs, where they just got here, these sticks. It is still unclear who ordered this man, who protected both the right and the left, and the Communists, and anyone. I want us to honor his memory by standing up. That's my offer to you. And I think Vladimir Mikhailovich will back me up in that sense. That'll be fair. Please, Vladimir Mihajlovich, let's go to Igor Aleksandrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, please make an application, and we'll make it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u220	Get up, you guys, he's been killed! Well, is that okay?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges is being voted on. [[Registration number 7739]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote at the same time. [[13:03:22]] For the 250.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u222	Don't shout. Have a seat, please. For 250, the decision is made. Have a seat, please. Yes, turn off the microphone, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we've made all the decisions, haven't we, Vasil Vasilovich? Thank you, dear colleagues. Now, dear fellows, we have voted with you to consider two laws now. Before this announcement, let me do it. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Boutz Bogdan Manuilovich, is part of the "Our Ukraine" faction. [[Applause]] Fedorczuk Jaroslav Petrovich is part of the faction of the bloc of Julia Timoshenko and Stepanov Mikhail Volodymirovich as part of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Yes, who will be the spokesman for Law 7628, second reading? Yes, the distinguished national MPs. Please, Basil Gabrieluk. What? As amended, let's go now, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u223	Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, before you consider the second reading, the draft law on the characteristics of discharge from the positions of persons who combine the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy with other activities. You remember that the first reading of June 23 of this year was adopted. Today, the committee has processed all the proposals that have come, and there have been eight. All accounted for, except for the first sentence. I want to say and remind you of a few points: you admit that the purpose of this bill is as seen in the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u224	Vasil Vasilovich, everyone knows he's fresh in our memory, we've blocked the rostrum a lot. Anatoly Seminoga, are you insisting on your amendment? Microphone. No, it's filming. All other amendments are included. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft law on the specifics of discharge from the positions of persons who combine the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy with other activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u225	The committee's asking for support. [[13:06:09]] For 326
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u226	The law is passed. Now Bill 7700. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u227	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, this bill refers to the same problem, but the draft amends article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. There were eight suggestions to the committee, all taken into account. The committee therefore proposes to support the bill as a whole in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no warnings. All the proposals, all the proposals made by the people's deputies, are taken into account. [[One minute!]] That's why I'm voting on the committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on ensuring compliance with the requirements concerning non-compliance of the status of the People's Deputies with other activities]] Registration number 7700. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u229	The committee's asking for support. [[13:07:24]] For 328
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u230	Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear national deputies, by factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 14, Communist -56, “Ukraine’s Regions” - 48, National Party - 37, Block Timoshenko - 37, SPU - 20, Ukrainian People’s Party - 22, “Ukraine” - 20, SDPU - 19, “Democratic Ukraine” - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13, “Democratic Initiatives - 4, “Afterfractional” - 19. Dear colleagues, the committee is very much requesting these two laws that apply to social television so that we can consider and make the right decision. One minute! Wait a minute! What? I'll give it to you now, if you don't mind, then we'll look at it, and then we'll write it down, and we'll say what you want. Come on. Please, True One. But we need to include them in the agenda, Your Honor. That's why I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Television and Broadcasting, a new edition. [[They're on our schedule.]] Registration number 7539. Please vote. [[13:08:53]] For 292 Decision taken. The factions, please. Please, Sergey Makarovich. “Our Ukraine” - 63, Communists - 56, “Ukraine” - 0, People's Party - 41, Block Timoshenko - 38, SPU - 6, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, “Ukraine” - 20, SDPU - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 11, Democratic Initiatives - 3, non-fractional - 15. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've prepared a huge speech with epithets and metaphors there and everything, but not until now, I'm going to give it to her at home in front of the mirror. The main thing in this law was that we had someone to appoint. who chooses the supervisory board and how independent it is of all branches of authority. Singers of the Stetsky, Shevchenko, Pravdenko, Bagraev, Yavorowski, Mishur, Gmira, Gabrieluk, Bondarenko, and other respected colleagues concluded that 30 people, 15 of whom are going through the Supreme Council, are 15 public organizations that have operated for at least 3 years. And these people are already assigning the president of the social and television and radio channels and the administration of these channels. They are chosen for six years, that is, not related to presidential elections or parliamentary elections. In short, my fellow Members, I can go on, but, believe me, we have all the representatives of the various political forces, we have done everything we can and very much ask to support you in the first reading. There will be observations, in the fall we will go to the second and the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u232	With three minutes of motivation. Please sign up. Yes, Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u233	Please give the floor to the deputy of Jabor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u234	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u235	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts of Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I am also representing a committee on freedom of speech, and I would very much ask you to support this bill in its first reading. I belong to those who consider the established norm as, in what way the forces themselves should choose the supervisory board, the question is very questionable. In this regard, you can have a variety of thoughts. So far, we've come up with a kind of optimal option on the committee, but that doesn't mean it's final, that's actually the only reason we can talk about it. But I think we're going to put everything in place right between the first and the second readings. That's why I would ask you to press the buttons for this bill. We really need this TV, public.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u236	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u237	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u238	Solomon's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u239	Dear colleagues! Let's remember the difficulties we've had and remain in the formation of election committees. How power and capital influence on the basis of the formation of these committees, and how these commissions then solve the question of what is called electoral bourgeois democracy. I think that's the kind of problem we have right now with the formation of a public oversight board. What fifteen of the Supreme Council will be, but what these organizations will be, who will offer fifteen from the public, is the very great question mark. I'm not sure that all these people and all these organizations will be repurchased and will be working on his overrated capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u240	Raisa Bogatyrov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u241	Please pass the word to Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u242	Taras Blackwall's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u243	Dear colleagues! In principle, by supporting the idea of social television in general, we are forced, unfortunately, to take a hard enough stand against this particular bill because there has been some substitution. Instead of creating, indeed, social television and radio in Ukraine, it is proposed to form it on the basis of an existing state. We are well aware of where this will come from. This is actually called the State Television Privatization Act. So let's get off the list there of enterprises that can't be privatized and proceed in that direction. This is going to be the same thing as television and radio talk. There can be no parity there. There's going to be some propaganda. I understand that he has a chance to pass today, even though I will vote against our faction against. But I'm asking you very much, in no case do we push it all the way so that these possibilities are just the kind of imbalance that we can remove to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u244	Honourable National MPs are put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the System of Social Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, a new edition, registration number 7539. Please vote. [[13:14:49]] For 273 Yes. Decision taken. There is now a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, on the financial and economic activities of NTCU and the National Radio Company of Ukraine, registration number 7635. Please vote. [[13:15:26]] For 302 Questions are included in the agenda. Please, Sergey Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, today’s national television and state radio are, according to the Law, state institutions. Perhaps it was very convenient for the past authorities, since it was always possible to get attached: Where do you spend your advertising costs, where do others go? There's no right of a manager. The president uses his pen to change the president if he resists. You can always find a violation. Article 12 is proposed in this Law. To give state television and radio broadcasting the status of a state-owned enterprise. This makes it perfectly legal to make advertising, others, make movies, and so forth. And it's legal for them to have the same TV, radio, social support, pay raises, fees and so on. Because you know that commercial, much richer non-state channels here have long been conquered by many creative people, by the president of the state. TV doesn't have the material capacity to keep a better frame. In short, there are a lot of questions. Believe me, I went through it as a newspaper editor. We've been reaching out for status, both state-owned and collective, and so on. It's very, very important, it's for the cause. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u246	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u247	Thank you. I'll vote for it if the reporter gives me the answer: are you giving up your budget? Because the state enterprise doesn't get any money from the budget. This is an entity engaged in profitable activities. As far as I know today, the radio company is not a profitable organization and it spends a lot of money on the budget. If we now vote that this is an enterprise, there are no questions, but just so you know that the budget will be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u248	Thank you. The previous edition, which needs to be corrected, is kept at the expense of the State Budget and broadcasts. All of it. Today’s edition: held at the expense of the State Budget, is meant to be contractual. A law that allows us to contract local self - government authorities and so forth, as well as funds that come from other sources. It's a normal combination. We'll be giving him orders to explain our work and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, this is about considering acceptance as a basis, and we will continue to work and watch. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, the National Radio Company of Ukraine. [[on the financial and economic activities of NTSC and NRC]] [[Registration number 7635]] Please vote. [[13:18:55]] For 307 Decision taken. Yes, dear fellows. Please, Ivan Tomic. I don't see anyone here who wants to do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u250	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Supreme Council is adjourning the session and we will not be working in plenary for two months. The situation of providing our citizens with food is extremely important. So to this end, I propose that the committee consider this bill, and consider this bill, number 7311, on State intervention in agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u251	Oleg Yukhnowsky. Well, no one's looking. Well, you're right now. Dear colleagues. Oleg Yuhnowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u252	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Project 7311 was registered in the Supreme Council on July 6. Came to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations today. Therefore, the committee did not consider it or had the opportunity to consider it. All of it. As for the committee and the committee's decision. The previous draft was discussed at a committee meeting and proposed that the Supreme Council reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u253	Yes, please, Katerina Samolik. [[One minute, not all of us, please, dear colleagues. Let us not disturb at least at the end of Parliament's work]] Samuel's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u254	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I want us to, I want us to wish we could finish our session properly. Ivan, don't distract me, please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want us to finish this session properly, wish to all of us, and I would like to conclude with the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the 15th anniversary of the Ukrainian-Cuban program on the recovery of our children who were affected by the Chernobyl accident. I think it's humane that this is going to be the normal end of our session. I ask you all to vote in favour of inclusion and to vote in favour of the ruling that was discussed at the meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u255	Alexy Kozachenko, Andrew School and we will be. Let's figure it out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u256	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I ask that you return to the second reading of Bill 7565. If you remember, I was the initiator to return it twice for processing. I say that this law is fully developed and ready for adoption in the second reading and in general. So it's short and it's going to take our 3-5 minutes. I ask you to return to this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u257	Andrew School, please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u258	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, first of all, I want to go to the Communist faction and say it's not. The Soviet law, please don't worry. This is the law, I mean, Law 7311, which aims to make it possible for the Reserve Fund to store products in connection with those price jumps that may arise due to changes in the world economy. It's a perfectly normal law, it's a law that will allow price policy to be influenced in Ukraine. And if we don't support this bill, if the Supreme Council doesn't vote, we'll take full responsibility when we go on vacation. So I think it's better to give the government and work, and it's going to be perfectly normal. I ask you to submit this bill for consideration, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and let us support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u259	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, or let's all perform, let's do it in turn. What faction? Calm down, please. Manchulenko. And let's get this over with, please, just please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u260	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues! At least I have two different bills in my hands that are registered under the same number -- 7311 from 30.06, it's already registered with us, in the registration sector and since 07 July. So let's first figure out what kind of project we're going to consider and then we're going to essentially talk about, not to mention that there can't be so many bills under the same number on such a serious issue. Do we want to solve the problem positively so that there is no problem with meat in our market? Do we want to make such a situation when it is unknown who will carry out these interventions and charge their pockets on it? I, for example, don't want a faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. We want the problem to be resolved legally, in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u261	Dear National Deputies! Any subject in the legislative initiative has the right to substitute. Another question was whether he passed the committee or whether he had a conclusion. That's another question. Please, Tomich. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm saying it's another matter if the committee's passed. Please, Tomich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down and you'll get it. Calm down! In turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u262	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The first draft of Bill 7311 was considered on the committee and accepted as a basis. The reporter is Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk. I'm asking you to consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u263	Please, Grigorovitch. Then Sulkowski -- that's it. Well, that's enough, they already said for this bill. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u264	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! In fact, Wednesday’s agenda was not a draft of a decision on meat, not of a Sotovian character, but a decision on parliamentary hearings to ensure the rights of children in Ukraine, the protection of motherhood and childhood. It's kind of taken off. If we voted today on this draft regulation, we could start working for two years to implement decisions and recommendations from our parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u265	Yes, Paul Sulkowski, then George Carmazin, and then we will make a decision. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u266	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In terms of how we are now developing meetings in Parliament, you can see, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to make an offer: the MPs don't want to close the session today, so let's vote, Mikhailovich, and we'll work as normal as we can before 6:00. And then, there's a lot of projects that are really necessary today for Ukraine -- and about the land market, I'm ready to report this law now, and so on. So I'm going to make an offer: stop doing that. We're not going to look at all the projects, not get into the swamp, stop, risk, listen to you at the session -- and really, it's going to be business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u267	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u268	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is now apparently an opportunity to use what not all have this text of the bill. I'll be able to read to you, quote paragraph 13, "Set for the period until 1 January 2006 for enterprises that enter the single State Reserve system, import customs at zero rates on live animals, then meat, then sugar imported into customs territory for State intervention." [[Codes to go]] This, Your Honor, is the whole point of this law. And taking advantage of the fact that the issue was not included, as it should have, not all the committees passed, it was a question not of saving the state, but of destroying the state, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. They tell me, my friends say it's a betrayal. Well, it's the Security Service's jurisdiction. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you heard what Oleg Ivanovich Yuhnowski told you. They are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u269	First Deputy Prime Minister of China, Anatoly Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u270	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, dear friends! The government supports the relevance of Bill 7311, which was reviewed by the committee and supported by the committee. The bill is designed for the formation in Ukraine of today's economic laws, policies for regulating prices for socially significant goods. In order never to use the customs for policy prices, the pressure on the manufacturer, the law provides for civilized economic methods to create the necessary balance of supply and demand and economic interference of the State with the market for non-inclusion of price increases for socially significant goods. The government is asking for support so that we have a regulatory mechanism. Transparency and vice versa will enable us to reduce, including market abuse when it comes to pricing and income. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, when you do not know how to proceed in such a situation. There is one way out, according to the Rules. According to the Rules, we have to vote in favour of continuing our work, because we're planning to do it by 1:00. That's why. [[N o M e s s a ……]] One minute! Not for inclusion, but to continue in plenary mode. Because we have to work up to 13 hours only, and then we have to go to the Miscellaneous, you know that. That's why I'm voting. Who's in charge of continuing the plenary session until 4:00. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:30:01]] For-163 Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, according to the calendar plan, the holding of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 8th is scheduled for completion of plenary work at the seventh session of the Supreme Council. The word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u273	Dear National Deputies! Taking into account periods and processes. [[N o M e s s a ……]] What provocation? Taking into account the periods and processes that marked the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call, it could be completed with the words "finally." Finally, because it's the most critical stage in parliamentary history, and more specifically in our country history. A stage where it was decided whether or not to be Ukraine. The stage at which Ukraine approached the conflict with unforeseeable consequences and balanced at the border. The stage at which the Supreme Council demonstrated that it was the highest national representation and saved the country from a massive internal conflict, with a forceful dimension, taking on virtually all responsibility and all the burden of solving the political crisis. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine and every national MP for the courage that has been shown at the critical moment in the country's history and Alexander Masenka himself, who also voted in favour of those decision-making decisions taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] More than that, no one's ever done that before. This period then requires comprehensive analysis and responsible conclusions. Above all, there are responsible actions and understanding of the situation. Understanding why and by whom in many people, especially yesterday’s colleagues, came the opportunity to speak in contrast with the Supreme Council and to embezzle it, I am a new authority. What is more, it is often puzzling to do so and to act on the medieval principle of the winners. Today, one judge or another judge, including some of our far - reaching traditions and mentality. Let me highlight, some of them. We would like all of us to remember this and work together for social understanding and reconciliation, overcoming uncertainty and uncertainty, since this is what the President of Ukraine calls for today. We need to finally get everyone back to the real problems of a national nature and stop seeing this position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as populism. If you call social laws and suggestions that were so hot last night, populism, for God's sake, call it populism. I'm convinced that the Supreme Council will continue to work so that Ukraine will grow up, not to preserve human beings and serve someone's interests, they didn't come from any side. We have to stop showing disrespect and disregard for laws against the background of loud slogans about the rule of law. This is well illustrated by the treatment of the Constitution, and this is illustrated by the clear requirement of the Head of State to law enforcement authorities regarding the inadmissibility of monitoring politicians and business circles. So this is going to happen. [[Applause]] What's called "lived up." Otherwise, in addition to everything else, state policy can turn us into a policy of armed and state-authorized parties or corporate groups. And Ukraine will be driven under personal vision, under the personal guises of individual high - rankings. After all, we need to stop the constant production of the power crisis and thus the crisis in Ukraine. What's happening and what's happening in the last days in the Supreme Council is the alarming symptoms of a power crisis in general, these are symptoms of impulses that are not stable in society and the problem is not at all in support of, or in support of, the laws, say, the WTO. The problem is, you can't break through your knees, build state policy on a conflict basis, on the principle of reckless subordination to the external interests of the country's internal interests. And to replace dialogue and arguments with stupid ones, I'm stressing the blunt pressure on which this pressure would not come from. After all, we have to give up the continuous attempts that have been going on since 1994: to have a manipulative Parliament, I stress: a manipulative Parliament. This is tantamount to trying and trying to manipulate the people and give them humiliating grades. The previous government took at least a year to run it on the Supreme Council, now it's four months. I want to tell the members of the government who are still here, that you can't do that way, that yesterday was here, acted in a way that Parliament does. Today he allows himself to appreciate the actions of his colleagues. I have not seen anywhere in any country that any representative of Parliament has criticized the government, the President at international meetings, and they have done the same in relation to their colleagues in Parliament. This is our Ukrainian practice when we demean. We trample each other into the earth, and then we want to be considered a European country, admitted to Europe. Prospective policy is not built on this. And there will be no prospect for the country in this approach. At the same time, I think it is important to note as a special feature of the session that the Supreme Council has demonstrated and demonstrated its willingness to cooperate with the President, the Cabinet of Ministers. She issues, if you want, carte blanche for their actions. Allows them to start a job called a clean sheet. Examples. Please. The Prime Minister's approval of the previous government was approved. Application accepted. The program was accepted. Yeah. Whoever wrote it and we accepted it because we think it's necessary for the government to work. The second prime minister, the new prime minister, the new prime minister, has been approved by more than a constitutional majority. Iraq -- they asked for troops -- we brought them in. They asked us to bring them out. We brought them out. What else is needed for authority?Oh, my God! [[Applause]] Loyalty on the part of the Supreme Council is seen as conformism, as weakness, as yielding. And yielding is seen as weakness. Clearly, the Supreme Council is forced from time to time to correct, work, and reach out for openly weak legislative proposals. Point to questions and problems that need an immediate solution, an immediate response. Accumulate, articulate and reflect social sentiments and demand that they be implemented in public policy. Such principles are viewed as rebellion. Collectively resisting the dictatorship is not easy. Because it's easier to influence collective moods. And in this regard, my distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues Masenko and Belarus, I would like to speak of my position as Head of the Supreme Council. I'm doing everything I can to protect the interests of the Supreme Council. I'm having a hard time maneuvering to save the face of the Supreme Council. Believe me, I don't have any more interests. If someone blames me in 2000, in 2004, we created 2004 together. If you look beautifully, we'll find common ground with you in 2000. And I would like to emphasize once again: Dear colleagues, let's work quietly, because I have something more to say than you think. Otherwise, we will go back to the search for the guilty in 1937. Are you trying to drown me? We can only drown together. [[Applause]] I came from the fact that there is a Supreme Council and there are positions of the Supreme Council. And you don't have to try to get it. You're reaching the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the same way. I'm not demeaning myself, dear colleagues. Collective pressure tends to shift to actions of an individual nature. And we see this in those statements, which are called figures, the national MPs, that they will be brought to criminal responsibility for the proper submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I understand, Your Honor, but this must be done in an orderly, orderly manner. Because I want to say, my dear colleagues, Bogdan Kostinuk, because today if you analyze the entire Ukrainian political elite and the attitude towards the Ukrainian political elite, the attitude towards power, you can only have one word, one synonym, which can be replaced by "the crimes of the law." That's how we humiliate everyone. In each particular case, as the law provides, it is impossible to marvel at the world. I'm talking about it. And I'm sure we're in this together, and you're going to support it. Dear colleagues, we must do everything we can to preserve the Supreme Council. And I am convinced that we will do everything we can to make the Supreme Council the highest representative body of the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-08-m0.u274	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, this session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare the fourth call closed. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to remind you that according to a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from July 11 to 15, national deputies work on committees, factions and groups. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin on September 6th. Good-bye.
