ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u1	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. And I'd like you to send the National Deputies to complete the factions meeting and to approach the session room. Dear colleagues, please be more active in the session room. We're not going to work. We're going to a holiday. Please. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:37]] There were 364 national deputies registered in the session hall. Dear colleagues, at the opening of the seventh Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the opening of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are members of the Government, the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the head of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine, the head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Kiev and Sebastopol City Heads, the heads of the District Councils. Presences of the public, media. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is scheduled for the fourth public call. At the invitation of the Ukrainian National Deputies, please include a broadcast of a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the street. Dear National Deputies! On January 26, 2005, the Central Election Commission recognized Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna as Ukraine's elected national deputy in a multi-mandatory national district from the election bloc of the political parties of the Viktor Yushchenka bloc "Our Ukraine". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Elena Fedorovni Bondarenko, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u3	Let us welcome our colleague and wish us every success. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleagues, Mikola Fedorovich and Tsushka Vasil Petrovich. Let's welcome them, too. We want all kinds of good things. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna, is a member of the "Our Ukraine" delegation; the exit of the Ukrainian national deputies: Gorlova Hennadija Vasilovich and Matvienka Pavel Volodymyrovic from the deputy faction "Region of Ukraine". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Draga Vasil Ivanovich, from the membership of the National Agrarian Party of the Union and its membership in the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, I inform the National Deputy of Ukraine Musiyaki Viktor Lavrentiyovich of the "Centre". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Leonidovich, from the deputy group "Centre".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u4	Dear National MPs, the speech is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u5	Honorable national MPs, respected members of the government, leaders of the judiciary and journalists, distinguished guests! Valery Pavlovich, I'll wait for you to talk, right? Dear guests! It is clear that the main features of today’s session will be the result of a recent presidential campaign and its results. Not only did the Ukrainian elections end in a record-breaking year for the planet, but in 2004 the presidents or parliaments chose more than a billion citizens of 60 countries, but something similar that we have had to survive in the last six months, world practice doesn't know. In fact, the elections took place because of the political crisis, if you want, through the revolution, and so, first of all, that people have declared their rejection of such authority, their disagreements with its politics, their unwillingness to live by its imposed standards, rules, and canons. That's the key to everything that happened in Ukraine. We're one step closer to a large-scale civil conflict, to spreading the country. And it was the Supreme Council that preserved society and the state with its balance and responsibility, its decisions and actions. I saved myself at a critical moment, literally everything, and by proving that politics is not only an art that's possible, it's impossible. To talk about this today is also due to an increase in the number of people who claim that it was they who determined the weather in our house in November-December 2004. I would like to thank the national MPs, the Ukrainian Parliament, all those who did so and acted in a decisive, consolidating way at that time. So far, we've got a sketchy image of the country that still needs to be built. What is needed to fill this outline with concrete substance today? First and foremost. Not so much to talk about new power, but to create it in such a way that it corresponded as much to the moods, expectations, and expectations of a awakening society. Awakening means, on the one hand, that his person of authority from now on has a permanent and demanding controller and examiner. On the other hand, a narrow group of people with unlimited possibilities is covered by a plum to power. Let's add here that for the first time on this scale and at these levels, and essentially the entire command heights in the state take over the generation of the pre-war age, and the children of the war at these heights are now one. They, our predecessors, had to live and operate in a completely different coordinate system. Today we need to build our own and quality new system for ourselves and take full responsibility for determining the course of Ukraine’s further progress. So today, more than ever, we need the broadest social trust, support, and understanding of the head of state. More than ever, it is necessary to form a responsible government, indeed a government of national trust. Trades for government portfolios should be abandoned, giving the President the opportunity to strengthen the human resources potential to implement his policy. In the system of power, social and political life needs to be marked by the importance and constructive presence of the Supreme Council, strengthening the function of political control in its activities, stressing political control. And it's time to put into practice the concept of structured co-operation of branches of power. We need to get to the legal harmonization of their relations as soon as possible, at least at today's session through the adoption of the laws on the President of Ukraine, the Pro Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the new editions of the National Security and Defence Council Act, elections to the Supreme Council and local self-government authorities. Only these approaches, and this secondly, will make real plans and plans to act quickly and effectively, to ensure breakthroughs, first and foremost, in the economic sphere. The stated rate of rapid integration into Europe is obliged to take a closer look at realities such as Ukraine's three to seven-fold backlog even from the new members of the European Union of Central-Eastern Europe. Then it's about the ultimate need for economic policy, focused particularly on accelerated growth in investment and innovation, which would provide at least 15-20% of the annual increase in gross domestic product, that's when we talk about our realities of joining the European Union. At the same time, I would like to point out what is particularly important: at this stage, foreign policy orientations are to be pushed, stressed, into a strict fist of economic interest. Consider the historical conditions behind Ukraine’s coexistence with Europe and the world. As you can understand, our relationship with Russia. Otherwise, by practicing high matter, we will go up the stairs leading down. That is why the Government’s programme of work, to be considered by the Supreme Council, should be based on the fundamental positions that have been supported by the Ukrainian people in the presidential elections. A clear definition of our prospects is needed for the third task. Third by drug, but not by significance, it's about levelling divisions, restoring the unity of the country. During the 13 years we have experienced such a breakdown. Although the various Separatist initiatives had mainly conjunctural nature and polytechnological flavors and were engaged as the last strategic resource in the elections, including with the aim of putting Ukraine as an importer of security, such a problem should not be denied. This puts together a whole set of interconnected issues: regional policy, reform of the country's administrative and territorial system, consolidation of local elites. Which, in turn, requires urgent and coordinated legislative initiatives and practical action by the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. In this context, changes to the Constitution are of paramount importance in the area of local self-government. Political passions need to be contained, self - centered, self - centered in the governing system, and its powers of primary interest, national, national. In this regard, he would consider it necessary to stress attempts to question, not excluding an appeal to the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Council’s decision to amend the Constitution. This is a dangerous game that can lead to unpredictable consequences. Among them is the question of the Elections Act on December 26th, and then the legitimacy of the elections themselves, the surge of the new resistance, the reanimation of the Central Trends in the Regions. This forecast is perfectly logical, since a package principle is being destroyed, which, and only he, has helped to calm society’s passions and preserve his face for all participants in this very difficult coalition. Therefore, we should not measure for today who has won, who has lost. Maybe someone did lose, but let's model that we would lose Ukraine, the people, if we didn't make that decision? I don't think anyone's gonna take that forecast, and so am I. Instead of fighting the past, let us consider the future and work for it. Let's finally consider that our society, our people have already suffered so much opposition and hostility, strife and discord, so tired and tired of the negative and the dirt that the repetition of something like this in any form, form or expression they simply won't survive. We cannot survive indefinitely, but we can survive in such an environment, from crisis to crisis, from break to break. It is not life or work, but painful and infertile suicide. There is simply no time limit for a new relationship. This would mean losing such a difficult chance of creating a quality new power, strengthening the state, building an open civil society. The question is: either purposefully, responsibly, use these opportunities and opportunities effectively, or put everything at risk again without losing it. It's not a clotting of paint, it's a very real view of Ukrainian political reality. When one of the long-term heroes was informed that his son had beaten up 12 German tanks, a wise grandfather didn't believe it and said, "It's either an agitation or a lie." It was a separate episode. And again, we live permanently in the midst of agings and lies. And if we do not put an end to the suffocating atmosphere of lies, whispers, hypocrisy, listening to everyone and everything, then we will not continue to talk about honest power, transparency, and open politics. Recent events have had a significant impact on the position of our state in the world. It appeared, without exaggeration, even something similar to the international fashion in Ukraine. This is certainly a pleasure. But we need to make the most of the speed that comes in national interests. And by no means will he be allowed to grow into someone else's sisterhood or patronage over us, so that we don't have to sing into the political system an ancient folk song, in which there are words like, "Oh, the painter came from a distant land, he painted a nanny, only inanimate, he painted a face of black eyebrows and he didn't draw a quiet conversation." And today we just need a quiet, calm, balanced conversation. But, I think it reads quite clearly, quite clearly. Today it is necessary to demonstrate that Ukraine has its clearly defined strategic interests and is ready to stand up for them consistently. That's 4 features and the requirement of the moment that we're experiencing. Ukrainian foreign policy should be modern, not exclusively oriented towards established, regional, or global configurations and influence centers, but also to projections of their transformation and their role in these timetables and processes. You need to focus on the quality of foreign policy, which in turn requires intellectual reinforcement. We constantly complain about the crossness of foreign and domestic politics, forgetting that its principles belong to the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council. Such a fundamental document can only be obtained through joint efforts of Parliament, the President and the Government. This should be a test for our ability to interact in a consistent and effective way. In principle, today’s seventh session can and should be the most effective in this call. The potential and incentives for such work are enough. This is the newly elected president, the newly appointed government, and I think we're going to solve this issue in the near future, which is going to add, as it were, the energy of growth. This is a fuller awareness by Parliament of its social mission, this is the exit of MPs to a higher level of parliamentary career, this is the specificity of the last session, which will lead to special activity, because then, in fact, the next election campaign. In the set of circumstances, it gives reason to compare this session with a copper period between the President, Parliament and Government, of course, provided that all parties are respected, although not written, but the most necessary code of honor, so that for example, someone is tempted to form a so-called "majority" and, through it, impose his will on the entire Supreme Council. It is not known that in a diverse, polarized parliament of MPs, such an arithmetical majority can only be driven by taxes or the kind of promotion of law enforcement agencies. It is well - known that previous practice has been amicably condemned, but signature letters on this subject are being read in the walls of the Supreme Council. What did they fight against? I would like to point out that on all the wise proposals of the President and the government, and they cannot be defined by others, Parliament will make equally reasonable decisions. The level of parliamentary support of the Head of State and the future composition of the government testify to the results of the election for the Prime Minister's candidacy and the Government's Programme of Action. It's going to be a situational but real coalition, and it's going to have to keep coming out of that reality. Everything else is after the 2006 election. I would like to point out this: by also coming from a vast array of bills that need to be considered and adopted by the Supreme Council, first of all by codes that we're late for and much, which, in particular, hinders the implementation of judicial reform. In the near future, proposals will be made to Parliament to improve legislation and legislative work in Ukraine. They will require a number of decisions from the President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. In conclusion, I would like to address you, the distinguished national MPs, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an organ with a huge, simply unique public potential. Practically everything that happens in these walls, under this dome, immediately becomes the acquisition of a broad public and strongly resonates in it. I would like to urge you once again to have Parliament always act as a generator only with constructive, consolidating impulses, radiating energy, confidence and optimism. We did it in the critical November -- December of last year -- we can prove it now that people are waiting for the power of decisions and actions of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, at the previous sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we approved the calendar of the seventh session and the procedure for its enlightenment. According to the calendar plan during this week, February 1st - 4th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode, and the next two weeks in committees, factions, and groups, during the last week of the month the national deputies work in election districts. We need to confirm the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed draft of the agenda for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes into account proposals made by legal entities, committee observations, parliamentary factions, and groups. The Conciliation Board reviewed the draft agenda for the seventh session and suggested that it should be accepted as a whole and, if necessary, in the course of the session, amend or supplement it. All the proposals that were made yesterday are actually taken into account. Please. Three minutes, please sign in. Mikola Polishchuk, please, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u7	Please pass the word to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u8	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u9	Sobolev, "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear colleagues, considering the order of the day, proposed both this week and in general for the approval of the session, I would like to point out that once we have agreed on a number of issues, the issues that will apply to the order in which the changes and additions to the budget are made in order that we should clearly determine the date when we will review the 2005 budget. This is a question that has become urgent not only for a whole range of regions, but I think for a whole range of economic sectors. That is why I would like to see clearly the date of the 2005 budget review, which hastened in the previous months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I think we'll have no problem with the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers. We can only put the bill in order of the day, except for the bill that is registered. I think that's what we're going to do in the process of doing it, we're going to have problems here, I don't think that's going to happen. Please, sonny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Kravchenk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u12	Mikola Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u13	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, for unclear reasons, 4 bills were not included on the agenda. Among them are 6537, 6538, 7007, 6406-1. [[for a stenogram]] Among them is the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the implementation of the reform of the coal sector, the Law on Rail Transport, the report of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the implementation of the legislation on road safety, as well as the amendment of the Law on Compulsory Civil Liability Insurance. [[making changes]] I request that they be placed in the day-to-day order as these laws bear a heavy burden.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u14	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u15	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to say that I've analyzed the version that was given and distributed to the people's deputies for the holidays, and the one that is now, and virtually all the bills in all three blocks are included here. So I'd like to suggest to my colleagues that we really accept this agenda today, because I think it includes all the proposals that were and that were added by factions and committees at this time that came from what we were given the previous order of the day or the proposals. And then we can actually do it during the session, like we always do, or we can turn something on, or we can rule it out. That's a proposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! We exchanged thoughts. I want to say it again. All the proposals made are taken into account. But you know, respectable colleagues, fast-moving life, there'll be new bills, new proposals, we'll look at them and put them into the agenda. We need to make a technical decision on the merits right now. With this in mind, I am voting on the adoption of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fourth call, taking into account the proposals made by the national deputy Kravchenk. [[Registration number 7020]] Please vote. There's a vote coming, please. [[10:33:12]] For the 320. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! A draft Law prohibiting the privatization of cultural heritage is being announced for consideration. Reporter Les Stepanovich Tanjuk. Is there a Les Stepanovich? Please, Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I present to you the draft Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments. According to article 18 of the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act, approved as early as June 2000, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should approve a list of sites that are not subject to privatization. Until now, however, Kabmin had not submitted a list of non-privatizationable monuments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for approval, although in the decisions reached on the relevant days of the Government, the Supreme Council recommended that this be done urgently in order to avoid an uncontrolled, unwarranted privatization of cultural heritage. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality proposes that it be temporarily suspended until approval by the Supreme Council of the listed list. The adoption of the draft law does not require additional budget expenditure. Ukraine’s Cabinet generally agrees with the bill. He has no observations from either the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Economics, Holdbud, Minfin, the holdmain Foundation. Moreover, it is believed that the adoption of the bill will have an impact on the formation of the income portion of the budget, as well as on the deterioration of the memory condition as a result of low budgetary funding for its maintenance. In view of all of this, the Ministry of Culture and Art proposes to limit the privatization of only national monuments. This cannot be accepted because, first of all, it is the responsibility of the State to take care of the cultural heritage of the Ukrainian people and the state of budgetary security for its preservation should be reviewed on an urgent basis. Secondly, privatization is not a panacea of all troubles, as the unformed structure of cultural heritage institutions does not always result in clear security contracts with new private owners, and it is almost never properly monitored for their observance. Therefore, the committee does not support Minculture’s proposals and insists on temporary privatization, banning the privatization of all unique monuments, both national and local. However, to the Ministry of Culture in March, Minculture in March plans to submit a bill to Parliament to approve a list of sites that are not subject to privatization. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports the approval of the bill. In doing so, he proposes to complete the project with new paragraphs 3, which set a time limit, for example, for 6 months, during which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to approve the list. The Committee took this note into account and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 6136 as a whole, supplementing part three of the following content: the third, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in a six-month period, the Cabinet of Ministers to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law approving a census of cultural heritage that is not subject to privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u18	Thank you. But this is probably more likely to be the case, so we're going to have to write it down in order to do that. Yes, please point to the chart: Who signed up for the question? Please, 3 minutes: Tomenko, follow by Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u19	Paul Mikhailovich, in this delicate matter, I would like to ask you to understand the logic of action, obviously we need to understand that we have had information in the last few years that we have not only been privatized illegally, we have been carrying out illegal cultural monuments, I mean, images from state reserves under the aegis of gifts to neighbouring and other states on behalf of the Government. So maybe by thinking about this idea that you're proposing, we should actually look at the inventory of everything called cultural monuments and then think about, let's say, a moratorium at this point, and then think about how to restore them. Maybe we should go to a local level and do some privatization under, say, hotels or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u20	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. I can only confirm that in the last two years, thousands of thousands, thousands of units of storage that have been secured by government structures or other government structures have passed through the country and through other markets. And that's why, for example, I demand immediate inventory. Why not do so, literally without delay, from the first days of our government’s activity. Because, for example, only because of black archaeology in Ukraine does something else remain. Through the government channels, the official institutions, the official government structures have disappeared thousands, not even thousands. For example, from the Institute of Archaeology, as I was given help, there is only one third of all that accounts for a population of about hundreds of billions, billions. If we take them to the Ministry of Finance's asset, as it's done, you realize that the value of our internal capital will increase several times. Because both this bill and the next inventory procedure are essential in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u21	Please, Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u22	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The honourable report, in fact, is likely to protect the memorable cultural heritage that is now in the possession of the State. But, Paul Mikhailovich, please tell us, how quickly or, according to your expression, will the work that is necessary for the actual Supreme Council to make appropriate decisions regarding the alienation of cultural objects or the reverse of such alienation? Perhaps the initiative should be based primarily on your committee and government, which would initiate questions, and the Supreme Council could consider the problem in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u23	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. In fact, in view of the fact that the situation in the last two months when votes were counted, some quickly counted the huge funds that disappeared from Ukraine, some transformed property. And we witnessed how people got rid of it quickly. So we don't get under the crime scene. But there are things that still need to be preserved and fixed today. And if the Supreme Council intervenes immediately, after we have stopped it, we have formed the entire national list of all the monuments, not only here, as noted earlier, of national significance. I cannot say that, for example, a monument where there is no national significance in Rabnay or Preyyaslav. Who put out what criteria? They need to be justified and then made a full register so that the Supreme Council can finally establish them once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u24	Thank you, Paul Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, we have seven national deputies on board. This is a complete procedure, let's take 20 minutes to discuss. But please don't sign in after seven. Please, dear, prepare for Domansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! The question of a temporary, temporary ban on the privatization of the cultural heritage monument, which I consider today, requires special and, most importantly, prompt consideration. Why? Because the problem is the following. Regrettably, for a very long time, when we reflect on what kind of economic or governmental model the State is building, we are building as a State. Thinking about what we should do in the political sphere? How we should have different legislation. Are we completely missing out on what our culture is? This also occurs in the way our television screens are filled? And everything else, which, in principle, cannot be agreed and supported. Therefore, when we talk about cultural heritage, we need to understand clearly that the problem is probably about changing their status, because when they leave the State, it is difficult to imagine that the owner, which is not a State, will be particularly concerned about the cultural nature of those objects. Then, when it is said that a ban should be imposed, he is absolutely in agreement. As far as I know, the Cabinet of Ministers is almost ready to provide lists of those and lists by March and a whole programme for the protection of cultural heritage and cultural heritage. I think that's right. Therefore, the adoption of this bill is, in my view, a fundamental step forward at least in the first reading. On the other hand, I would like to say that there is a problem today. It has already sounded from this rostrum that, to some extent, we are facing not only the loss of our cultural heritage to the people, but also the loss of our cultural heritage to the people, and the fact that what is in the hands of the State also requires its attention, I would say, a very careful attitude. So it turned out that for 30 years I had something to do with archaeology. I have to tell you that black archaeology is developing in several orders more intensively than official archaeology, and therefore millions, if not billions. Billions of dollars go beyond historical values. Not only are specific objects destroyed, entire cultural objects destroyed. Therefore, I think that today, as a legislative body in general, we need to take a closer look at the issue of preservation of cultural heritage and, more importantly, in matters of privatization. I am therefore fully in favour of this bill and I believe that we must adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u26	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Please, Domansky, the Communist faction. Get ready for Shulsey Mikoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u27	All-Ukrainian Union of Soviet Officers, Communist faction, Domansky. Respectable comrades! Of course, this bill is very important. We have in Zitomirsk abounds, steals, gives up in scrap metal a large amount of military equipment that showed the achievements of our army during the Great Homeland War. The museums are closing. We support this bill, and I think we will vote for it. But I want to say another: there are people under the walls of the Supreme Council today, a culture that they understand. This is their standard of living, and culture is determined by the standard of living of these people, who have given their service to their people for the best of years. Today, in Ukraine: three thousand in Harkov, four in Poltava, three in Žitomir, three in all of Ukraine, in the regional centres there are actions in which veterans of the Armed Forces demand that article 39 be excluded from the Budget Act for this year. For ten years in this Parliament, officers, 10 years of reserve officers, retired officers and those who are serving today have fought to eliminate the imbalance in the retirement provision of retired officers. We passed this law with you last year because the presidential elections went on. We voted here, President Kuchma signed this law. Today, the representatives of the authorities, who had not yet entered their rights, had already included the rear speed and it was unclear in the budget who, whose name, which faction had contributed to article 39. Today it's impossible to figure out who's dividing the officers again. Today, a rally is held at the walls of the Supreme Council. Interventions require various public organizations: Vitaj, Union of Officers, Dreadless Officers, to be excluded from the budget by article 39. Today I submit my demands to the President of the Supreme Council, the demands of the regional organizations, the various public officials, the demands of today's rally with demand, and ask you: before the elections, I would like to recall once again both the representatives of Viktor Andreevich and the representatives of Viktor Yanukovic promised that the rich would share with the poor. So let's delete the 39th article today - and thus prove that you are concerned about the poor, about those who have protected our Family, who are the pride of our State. We declare the requirement to delete, and I ask everyone to support the vote: delete article 39 from the Budget Act. All requests shall be made to the presiding officer. And consider it my request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u28	Please give the floor to Michael Schulzi, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Not only do I want to support this bill, but I also want to say that we are discussing it too late, because it has been 4.5 years since the adoption of the law on protection of cultural heritage. A list of unprivatized monuments has not been prepared during this time. Reference can be made to all the objective reasons why this has not been done, but the main reason is that the absence of this list solves the hands of those who want to take on prestigious buildings, beautiful conservation sites, to squeeze into the most attractive points in the urban landscape. We need to put an end to such insurrection immediately. In addition, we have to agree with the proposal made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to prepare for six months. [[Well, that's what the committee agreed to.]] During a six - year period, the moratorium was followed by an appropriate document. Special attention should be paid to the capital. Not only should a moratorium be imposed on the privatization of cultural heritage objects, but it should also immediately give them the status of monuments of garden and park architecture to squares and parks in the central part of Kiev and protect them from other overlaps, as they become the target of attacks on the part of the insolently active builders, allied by the city’s authorities. Some want to take the green-zone plots to build housing, others to build entertainment complexes, and others to build cult buildings. In the center of the capital, not only does the historic landscape, which was made up of ages, show better about.. but the worst part about the self-interest. At the same time, however, they are driven into the stone jungle, where there will soon be no tree left. Let me give you just one example from my own experience. In the center of the city, a 300 - foot [300 m] - long [300 m] area, you can see this picture at the same time. First, the closure of the Blue Market, which seems to be urgently in need of reconstruction. But practice convinces us that we will not see more market there, we will bury another historical site of Kiev under the entertainment complex. It's different. In the area of the small park of Chkalov, located under the Blue Market, the cross has already demonstrated its intentions to build a church on it, and a beautiful cozy corner in the center of the city will be destroyed. Third. In addition to this park, a multistory building is also being built next to a monument to the architecture of the Institute of Geological Sciences. Who can stop this attack? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, Zarubinsky, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u31	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I think that every honest person cannot be indifferent when he hears the material and spiritual acquisitions of the Ukrainian people being deliberately embezzled. This is especially true of cultural heritage. To understand how serious it is, how extensive it is to consider at least the press reports of a January visit by the Attorney General's team to Crimean Autonomy. The world-renowned sanatorium and sanatorium complexes, the land of reserves and historical and cultural purposes, from the easy hands of ordinary swindlers and their sanitizers, change the owner, mostly the state, leaving it, the state-owner, as a deceitful and silent observer. No one is surprised by the fact that a large part of these violations are caused by high - ranking civil servants and the sinister Duchy - State administration of matters in charge of those who gave these oral and written orders and thus act. For the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the government, this is a serious signal for the President, because mass robbery takes place in the years of independence, discrediting the moral principles of the young state. On the other hand, what provision for the physical, cultural, and spiritual development of society will we soon be able to speak of when the material basis of such sensitive, civilized fields as history, science, culture, health care is being destroyed in our eyes? Museums, libraries, theaters disappear. By the way, would it be good if it were reported that when will the Star Theatre in Pechersk be returned to the audience? After all, the election is over. For such reasons, I am sure to support the Tanyuk MP’s bill on temporary banning the privatization of cultural heritage. And I would like to stress in particular that I am joining the proposal of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate for the establishment of a clear six-month term during which the Cabinet of Ministers is to submit to the Supreme Council for approval a list of sites that are not subject to privatization. Not to repeat the history of the previous decision taken on December 8, 2000, which hung like a corrupt computer. The words were beautiful, and they had no meaning, which has been for almost five years. And in the end, in my opinion, public policy must simply be based, equally, on clear norm-setting criteria and strict executive discipline. I think Tanjuk's bill will help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u32	Thank you, Jaroslav Suhi, Democratic Ukraine Group. Get ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak separately about the high relevance of this bill, not this bill, but in general this issue, because this is exactly what they have been talking about, and I would like to point out to the honourable colleagues from the high court of the Supreme Council. The point is that we have the goal of achieving the preservation of cultural heritage and I would like to say exactly what is happening in Zaporozhye. In particular, it is the island of Hortica. On more than one occasion in this session hall, it was very often the matter of high officials that we should make every effort to preserve this, the truth of the national, the sanctuary and not once, and at parliamentary hearings, and at the meeting of the Profile Committee, it was said that this city, this holy island absolutely does not resemble a shrine, cannot be part of a cultural heritage. I'll explain. Our concern, our concern, should not only be expressed in the constraints of some privatization. By the way, as far as the island of Hortica is concerned, it's also a problem because it's not built by cultural heritage centers at all. Such a step must certainly be supported, but conservation, the use of cultural objects, and the protection of the radiation environment must be designed to provide for an adequate level of funding. [[And that's what my colleague Moochan's been talking about.]] Let me remind you, the problem of building a strategic object of bridges across Dnipro, across the island of Hortica. We were able to get good money to arrange and finally solve the problem of archaeological excavations and preservation of cultural heritage. Unfortunately, the profile committee in this case has been inflexible, and we have a budget of only 80 million next year. To bridges, some small part of the funds will fall into the order of the island of Hortica. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone of this high rostrum: no budget in Ukraine has in any year provided even half the need to preserve the island of Hortic as our national sanctuary. So I propose this bill, and our parliamentary group will support it, we need to adopt it as a whole, because it protects the cultural heritage of the state and does another very important task. We draw the attention of our Ukrainian State to the fact that we have other facilities in Ukraine that we simply have to preserve in the name of our descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Leschenko Vladimir, the Communist faction. He'll be followed by Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u35	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! We are proud that Ukraine has a unique history and a unique cultural heritage. This is the acquisition of the entire earthly civilization. Thus, we need to preserve, cherish, and rebuild our cultural heritage. We are simply obliged to transfer it to our offspring’s caring hands in due course. Thus, it should not be a temporary ban on the privatization of cultural heritage but, in general, on the prohibition of privatization. Because with capitalism, everything, even conscience and morality, becomes a commodity. This is just for the purpose of seizing the hands of certain parts of the land in the dirt and leading to bankruptcy, or destruction, of our industry. The same is true of several million acres [a few million ha] of weeds that have grown. The same is true of cultural heritage monuments that are very attractive to the new owners of our capitalist country. In order to prevent the embankment of cultural heritage, they must, as was the case in Soviet times, be the property of the State. And the state, as it was before 1991, must support them, restore them, and spare no money. But not as selective as it is being done, so far has been done, for example, in the Chernigiv region. This is the National Deputy of Ukraine Plush Ivan Stepanovich with his friends, who was right in the Hetman capital of Baturin, there. The desert and so on. But along with the estate and the stakes, he built up there. And it's already going down for reconstruction. Leonid Danilovich Kuchma was president. So he rebuilt the monastery in. That's right. But next to a five - star hotel on the bones of a German - shot man. Or here is the Ukrainian national deputy Petrov Oleg Volodymyrovich of Rumyancevo-Zadunajsk in the village of Vishnka of the Corob Region partially privatized, and the forest masses around him have already taken up the leases so far. And here in Korop, too, the Chernigev region is the only one in all of the Left Bank Ukraine of the Illin Church. At the request of the election, I sent a parliamentary address to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please pay attention to this Hellenic Church. He received a reply from the Ministry of Culture and Arts, signed by the First Deputy Minister of Novohatka, saying, "Yes, that's all right, but we don't have any money. And let me also say thank you for covering this cultural heritage." Therefore, the bill should be supported in the first reading. The second reading will be subject to appropriate revisions. I also support my colleague, Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich, in restoring justice to veteran officers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, Bogdan Hubsky, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The preservation of the cultural heritage of the One Ukraine faction is one of the top priorities of state policy. This is our historical acquisition, the basis for bringing up young and young people in the spirit of patriotism, pride for our Ukrainian nation, for our state. A nation that knows its history, respects its ancestors, its cultural achievements, and realizes that I emphasize this word, my place in world history. We have much to be proud of, both culturally and historically. But there are about 130,000 cultural monuments in Ukraine. And about 70,000 more need research. In Ukraine, traces of the oldest civilizations have been found. Sadly, though, we today have to note that the preservation of cultural and historical monuments was mostly a matter of speech. An eyewitness to this fact is that in previous years there has not been a list of monuments that are not even privatized. The more these issues were dealt with, I would like to emphasize, the academic institutions, the scientists and the people who are personally in pain over these issues and unfortunately little attention was given to them in the public institution. I would like to give an example of, say, the Institute of Archaeology, the director of the academics, Toloczko, who really created a remarkable collection, preserved and classified antiquity in the times of Kiev, as well as in the previous period. In view of this, we would like to raise the issue more broadly, not only to prohibit the privatization of cultural monuments before the adoption of the law, but also to restore to the state property the monuments privatized with the violation of the law. It is also necessary, from our point of view, to create a register, a register of architecture and cultural history that are both abroad. Because from our own experience, when we were in the 21st Century Foundation of Ukraine, we were dealing with finding and returning to Ukraine. Bogdan Hmielnicki, we have seen that returning is important, but no less important, finding, documenting, really proving their historical value and showing, somehow, where they were found. It's very important. And here I would also like to stress the importance of helping institutions, academics of science, and especially the Institute of History of Ukraine, the Academy of Smalls. And so, to our deep conviction, the monuments of history, culture is the acquisition of the entire nation, must remain available to all Ukrainian citizens as a link to Ukraine’s continuous development as a link between our history and our future. So, the "One Ukraine" faction, consistent with the rights of Ukrainian citizens, the right to the priority of the cultural and historical development of our Ukrainian nation, supports the adoption of this bill, but at the same time we stress the need to create a register of monuments to the history and culture of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u38	Thank you. Yes, the amount of time spent. Please, after a minute, the Rabbit and the Semenyuk Commission. Then we'll be assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers. Microphone. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u39	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I support the adoption of this bill, but I want to draw your attention to the need to expand the concept of cultural heritage. We have already seen, the Dry One has also been speaking, and they have said, not enough language to speak today about material only monuments, but also about natural Hortics. Or, for example, when we talk about Tripoli, there are all these objects. But we also have to look ahead. And the perspective leads us to this proposal: Ukraine today needs to create a National Archaeological Museum, where it can gather all the completely archefacts of all cultures. And then we'll protect our inheritance. But before that, we must commit the Cabinet of Ministers to carrying out the inventory of all that is in our museums, because today all of this is being sold out, stretching out, and we will never, by this ban on privatization, save what is now. So, dear friends, my three suggestions, I'm asking you to consider: to enter the natural component, to create.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u40	Thank you. Yes, please, the head of the privatisation commission, Valentina Seminouk, one minute. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u41	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, this document was to be adopted a few years ago. This is especially true of those who were so saved for privatization, and today they are yelling, let us save. Perhaps you boys should be aware of or overcome your mistake in making the right mistakes. Therefore, the Special Supervisory Commission supports this proposal, but I would like to ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to have, at the Head of the Supreme Council, the Coordinating Board of Councils of various levels, a letter to the district councils, the district councils, so that they can also create corresponding registers of municipal property that are monuments to architecture. And that's going to be the right thing to do. And the law needs to be passed in general, because if we go to the first and second readings, things like the Blue Market, which they're putting to death today in Kiev, they're going to go into this kind of privatization. And so I'd very much like to say, this is a protocol assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u42	Please. Please, Minister of Culture Yuri Petrovich Bogicki. The Cabinet of Ministers' opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, the Ministry of Culture generally supports the positions set out in this bill. All I can do is explain why it took some time to compile a list of monuments that are made up of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act. The point is that a group of monuments in one area or another should be approved by a district council. By this day, all the district councils, except Kharkivsk, have made such decisions. That is why the government made a commitment to complete the census by March 1st and to present it for consideration by the Supreme Council. In fact, today’s monuments need both protection and large financial contributions. It is estimated that 96 million dollars are needed if we are to carry out the programs in good faith and purpose. It's going to be about 16, 15 every year. We cannot quickly implement the preservation of history and culture. Regarding the fact that Bogdan Volodymyrovich Hubsky said that only academic institutions are involved. Bogdan Volodymyrovich, the Ministry of Culture is also involved, you're a little bit unfair here. In general, I'd like to adopt this law, draft legislation to adopt and not extend it until, as we expand it, it's time. I'd like to support you in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, Phydenka for the reasons of the vote. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, as Secretary of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, I am asking you to support this bill that we are discussing, because it will be of great benefit to us. But at the same time, I'd like to pay attention to this situation. One way to ban the privatization of cultural heritage is to create a wider network of national historical and cultural preserves. They need to be expanded. The State must take these under law, under the protection of these. Let's say Vladimir Volinsky is an ancient city, prince. There's a great deal of historical and cultural heritage in the city of Lutsk and others. These include the creation of national and cultural historical reserves, and then the privatizations will not get to those historical cultural monuments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u46	Thank you. Well, please, Silent Paul, closing word, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u47	I am very grateful for the understanding and need for the immediate adoption of this bill, given that adjustments will be made to the budget in the near future, and we could increase the amount of budgetary funding that Yuri Petrovich Bogicki says. Everyone understands that we can then make appropriate changes to the adopted law, which I think you will all support today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of the matter has been completed, as we can see, actively and in many ways. I think it's right for those who say that if you and I extend the adoption of this law, which consists of one sentence, to two readings, there will be nothing from the cultural heritage. So let's probably do what the committee recommends, as recommended by the profile committee, the position supported by the minister of culture, that we are now adopting this law as a whole as a law, and we are giving a protocol commission to the committee to take into account all those suggestions made here by the wise, in order to actually make the relevant registers, and to carry out another set of measures, which the national parliament of the Rabbit and others have proposed. Therefore, if there is no objection, dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as the Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments. [[Bill No. 6136]] Please vote. [[11:11:29]] For 316 Thank you, the law was passed with protocol orders to the profile committee. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine is under consideration, the registration number of Bill 6497-1. [[on the recalculation of pensions for military retirees]] [[second reading]] The Committee on Budget Affairs will report to the first deputy head of the committee, Ludmila Suprun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! The draft law on registration number 6497-1 proposes to delete article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget. What is involved in this bill? With the stated norm and with the aim of implementing the Ukrainian Law of 15.06.2004, which we have accepted with you, the expenditure in the 2005 State Budget on pensions for military and primary and military personnel increased against the past is, in contrast to 2004, to 1 billion 443 million dollars and today to 3 billion 860 million dollars. In the case of the implementation of the rule proposed by the law under consideration today, we will need to increase the expenditure of the State budget by a billion 339 million dollars at the expense of the Ministry of Finance. But the political will that was formed today in the Supreme Council tells us that the deputies, the factions, will support the exclusion of this article from the 2005 Budget Act. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the Committee on Budget Affairs has unfortunately not considered this bill and therefore the bill itself can only be given with the conclusions of our secretariat. The secretariat’s assignment was given. Today, this bill is unbalanced. The amount of imbalance is already called 1 billion 339.6 million. But unfortunately, we can't specify exactly the number that will be needed to solve this problem under the 39th Article. The following is proposed: To adopt the Law in second reading, to refine it, and to determine a specific amount in the income and expenditure that will fully satisfy the needs for the payment of pensions to military pensioners. After all, today a huge number of people are demanding the return of the State guarantees established by the Law. Under such conditions, we offer to adopt this Law in a second reading and to develop it into a third reading, with specific articles of income and expenditure. In order for the bill to come into force legally and to have real sources of pension insurance for military pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u50	Thank you, sit down, please. Yeah, from the Retired Affairs Committee, one minute, Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u51	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, the Head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the two committees that have considered this bill, I mean the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, as well as the Committee on Defence, National Security, which unanimously supported the adoption of this document, would like to point out that this issue must be resolved, with which to resolve today, without delaying the second, third, fifth reading and so forth. Those of us who are afraid of being expelled from the State Budget Act 39th, I wanted to calm down: don't worry. Because the point is that it's full. Article 43 of the relevant law of profile will be implemented to resolve the problem, an extremely acute, painful social problem that exists today. On behalf of two committees, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up. Three minutes. Yes, please, Manchulenko, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u53	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The question that is being considered has become a serious social issue. The problem is that the government that once led Viktor Yanukovic and Azarov proposed the same model of recalculation of pensions for military pensioners, that is, by giving it all up in various ways, not as it had been before, when the issue was resolved through one Ministry, that is, through the Ministry of Finance. This scheme is unacceptable, it has caused social unrest among military pensioners, and this problem needs to be addressed. And Victor Yushchenka's block, his parliamentary faction is also insisting on a positive solution to this problem -- a return to the old scheme, because then it would be normal to make a recalculation of pensions and there would be no extra expenses. So I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Buttercup. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u56	Please, the Doman Anatoly microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, 10 years we've been putting off for 10 years! I would ask you to accept today, they stand here, once and for all. [[We've been lying to people for 10 years!]] Why did this happen? There was no article in the first reading. Who brought it? This led to the plot of Azarov and Dusty making an agreement and introducing this article! An old power with a new one to deceive our veterans again! I ask you today to vote and prove to all people that you really are for our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u58	Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u59	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, of course, this problem must be resolved and supported. But I wanted us to remember more than just soldiers today. So that we can remember the carpenters and the locksmiths, the teachers, and the doctors. Today, this problem is the accrual of pensions, which depends on the retirement age of those who worked both in the 1980s and in the 1990s and 2004. Indeed, this problem exists in the country as a whole. And what difference does it make or what does it make for those people who retired in the 1980s who have worked honestly, in good faith, to create the potential power of our State, which is now working and maintaining the economy. And those who have retired have been retiring since 2004. We passed the Pension Reform Act, okay. But today we need to think about how we can raise this category and address this problem in general throughout the country, not just with regard to the military. I'm behind the soldiers with two hands, but let's remember this category.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u60	Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I urge you not to turn this into a political debate. And let's go back to our own decisions that we made here with you last year. We have passed a separate law, we have considered it, we have sought funding to begin to equalize pensions for military pensioners, regardless of their retirement. And here comes the 39th article, which in fact is no step further towards equalizing military pensions for military retirees regardless of the retirement period, and there is a situation where we are exacerbating the situation. I call on us all to be consistent. We are on the path of equalizing pensions regardless of the retirement period of the military pensioners, let us move in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you this is the second reading. I've already gone into a violation of the Rules, which has given you the opportunity to speak up. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues, I fully support all those who have spoken here today, representatives of the various factions who have spoken of that we, unfortunately, have created a rather serious tension among many millions of our fellow citizens. I personally witnessed the recent weekend -- Saturday, Sunday -- meeting with this category both in Chernigov and in the city of Reveny -- all over the Republic now there are natural events. Today, several thousand of these categories are under the walls of the Supreme Council. I think we're going to take note of the proposal made by both the PICs -- both the Budget Committee and the Committee on Pensioners and Veterans -- that we will now adopt a law with you to repeal article 39 of the U.K. State Budget Act 2005 and that we will soon review the budget law, accordingly, the government, coming out of our law today and finding the possibility, and find the necessary funds to implement our previous laws on nearly three million military pensioners who retired by 1992. I ask, my fellow Members, to show understanding and support the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget, the essence of which is to exclude the 39th article from the 2005 Ukrainian State Budget Act. [[on the recalculation of pensions for military retirees]] And this law has become effective since the day of publication. Please vote. [[11:22:42]] For 319 The law is passed. Please, by the factions. I'll read the pro. "Our Ukraine" - 14, Communist faction - 58, "Regions of Ukraine" - 50, People's Agrarian Party - 28, SDPU - 23, "One Ukraine" - 21, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, "Soyuz" - 13, "Centre" - 12, "Will of the People" - 9, "Trubic Ukraine and NDP" - 13, "Democratic Ukraine", sorry - 14, "Deminitiates" - 9, "Preflacation - 18. Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for the understanding and awareness of the situation that we have faced by voting for this article. Let's move on to the "short procedure" section. There's a bill to amend the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act. [[on the socio-demographic structure of the population]] Bill No. 3701, author of the bill, National MP Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich. Get ready for Dryma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u63	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! National Deputy Suškević. The bill was designed by me to bring national legislation into line with international legal standards by clarifying in the Ukrainian Act on the minimum of subsistence of basic socio-demographic groups, depending on age, gender and socio-academic status, especially that of discrimination against the rights of persons with disabilities to work. Dear colleagues, 10 years ago, the UN General Assembly approved the standard rules for ensuring equal opportunities for people with disabilities recognized by members of society to receive the necessary support under normal health, education, employment and social services systems, I stress, normal systems. At the same time, this very important document, the international software document, which we have recognized in Ukraine, makes a distinction between disability and disability. Disability as a concept is defined as permanent or temporary functional limitations due to physical, mental, sensory defects, health, or mental illness — disability. And incapacity is the loss or limitations of participation in society, at the same level as others, if it reflects obstacles in the environment. Dear colleagues, I emphasize, incapacity is not a social personality fault, it's a social flaw that has not enabled employment. In international practice, the term "incapacity" is applied with a view to highlighting the shortcomings in the environment of various aspects of society's activities that impede the social integration of people with disabilities. In our country and today, and in legislation including, there is a lack of clarity and confusion in the use of the terms disability and disability, and these concepts are rarely identified. This illustrates the practical implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Living Minimum, to which I propose to make changes, namely: the conditions for the appointment of a number of social benefits to older persons and persons with disabilities are foreseen regardless of their age and the fact of employment, the application of a minimum of living for persons who have lost their jobs. However, such an approach does not take into account the socio-economic status and the fact that disabled people are employed. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that for each of you, the minimum cost of living is entirely different from that of me, even though we're working with you. I work as a disabled person in this Parliament, but for me, it's calculated by other standards, smaller ones, because again, there's the notion that disability and disability are the same thing. The proposed bill provides for persons who have not reached retirement age and who have reached retirement age and work to be recognized as working persons, persons who have lost their jobs, persons who have reached retirement age and who do not work. In addition, the bill provides appropriate clarifications on the application of the subsistence minimum, including for children with disabilities. A number of comments to the bill have been made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, most of which can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The government, in its expert opinion, notes that the category of persons who are unemployed is already recognized by article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance. I want to say that the inaccuracies regarding the definition of invalids are very much in our legislation. And our Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons is systematically working on Ukrainian legislation today to determine the rights of disabled persons with regard to their ability to work in such a way that disability is not, well, identified with disability. The introduction of "On Living Minimum" to the Ukrainian Act will allow more consideration to be given to the needs of different categories of persons, including those in employment, when applying the subsistence minimum. Indeed, the adoption of the proposed project as a law requires the harmonisation of a valid legislative framework. The proposed changes do not require additional financial resources because, at present, in determining state social assistance as a calculation value, you know, the minimum of living is not applied, but the minimum of living provided by the Ukrainian State Budget Act. My bill is supported by the Social Policy and Labour Committee, as well as by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I look forward to your support, and I ask your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u64	Thank you. The secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, will report. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I'm going to start at the end of the committee's decision, I'm going to announce it right away, and I'm going to say that the committee's discussion on this issue was unforgivable, and we've made a decision, as the bill's author said, to recommend the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept this bill as a basis. But they've made a number of important observations and things, and that's what this is all about. The problem itself is extremely important and extremely relevant, extremely painful. We didn't take this category into account in the definition of the basic standard of living minimum, we thought of it as a whole or as a whole. Children are children, and there is a category of children with disabilities. Workable. And they're in a state. Because there are certainly different approaches. At the same time, the bill itself, and the author agreed with it today, and at the committee meeting he agreed, he needs his work even in the process or even in the right of the norm technicians, in particular, the standards of the draft law are in fact aimed at strengthening the material support of disabled children from childhood and families where children with disabilities are raised. This problem is extremely acute today, especially in the face of our struggle against the poverty that we have declared, unfortunately, little is done. This bill is important for raising the socio-economic status of disabled people from childhood, but this bill aims to improve the principles and methods of making a living minimum. Why am I stressing this? Dear colleagues! We already have in this session hall a number of coalitions where "mild intentions," when we want to do something better, we get involved in this state social standard, and we create a false impression or an illusion that it's living real money, it's just a standard, but that can have negative consequences if it doesn't have a clear financial and economic foundation. That's why we, I stress once again, recommended the author, and the author agreed, and that group of authors. who cooperated with him because he was the subject of the legislative initiative, and the specialist in the department would cooperate with the committee to work with him. And one more thing. The bill does not refer to the number of persons who have lost their jobs, the number of disabled persons who receive benefits. That's why both the Scientific and Expert Offices, and the Departments of Education, and the Committee on Social Policy, as far as I know, the Committee on Veterans, Disabled Persons and Pensioners recommend that the session room accept this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u66	Is there a need to discuss? Then please, dear. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! Having no authority from the entire committee, I still feel it is my duty to say that the Committee on Pensioners, Persons with Disabilities and Veterans, having considered the bill at its meeting, unanimously supported it. We believe that the problem raised in this bill is fundamental to the fact that, if we say that we want to build a socially oriented State. The point of what? The bottom line is this. Today, we have people with disabilities who are immediately incapacitated. There is a contradiction behind the seeming harmony. Why? Because there are people with disabilities who work. But still, their social standards, which are calculated by public methods, go as for non-working people. This raises the question. A person with physical disabilities continues to engage in positive creative work and still falls into the category of State-damaged persons. Why? Because, once again, regardless of whether a disabled person is employed or not, his subsistence minimum is calculated by category: incapacity. Therefore, the author of the bill, my colleague on the Committee, rightly asks that we should create the following system, that if people with limited physical capacity or, as we sometimes call them disabled, are employed, i.e. they are able to work, their social standards should be calculated as working parts of the population, whether they fall into this category or not. Therefore, in this case, speaking of whether there is a need to support the bill or not, I think there is, because there is social justice. The working person, independent of his or her personal characteristics, must be employed, must fall into the category of workers and all the social obligations that the State undertakes for these people must be fulfilled. And if a person does not work, his subsistence minimum should therefore be regarded as not working. Thus, working persons with disabilities must be persons whose social standards are calculated from a minimum minimum living minimum for the working population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u68	Thank you, please, Solomon, for preparing Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u69	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, it seems that we should unite unanimously around those proposals for changes and additions to the Housing Minimum Act and the results of our joint vote, I believe, testify. Because it's about protecting social justice, in the sense that it exists among our working people. In that sense, which is designed to protect the person’s work and the person who has already worked his or her age, he or she still has to work together to not only ensure proper living conditions but also to help children and grandchildren. That is the truth of our lives. Therefore, the proposal that our colleague Valeriy Suskevitch made to add to the article of the first Ukrainian Housing Minimum Law is that working persons are persons who have not reached retirement age, men between 18 and 60 years of age and women between 18 and 55 years of age and persons who have reached retirement age and who work. I highlight again, they've reached retirement age and they're working. They likewise have the right to be treated with due respect. Those who have lost their jobs are those who have reached retirement age and who do not work — men over 60 years of age, women over 55 years of age. And that is what these changes refer to in part three of the second article when children are mentioned. And it adds "including a disabled child." Dear colleagues, the law is that it is difficult to find any minor flaws there. So I think we have to accept it both in the first reading and in general, so that after it was published, people will taste the concern of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, us legislators, about those people who expect us to do such worthy deeds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u70	Yes, please, Oleg Zarubinski, People's Agrarian Party, behind him Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, Valeriy Suškević said quite accurately that the implementation of this law goes into the river with international legal norms, and that is indeed the case. But I would like to point out that it is logical in terms of Ukrainian legislation, and I would like to remind you that on February 20, 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree was adopted "On the state of security in Ukraine established by valid legislation of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the area of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. You remember that. This was then formulated as the main goal of defining the subsistence minimum of people who are related to the main socio-demographic groups. I will not repeat my colleagues, but I will say that the following position in the proposed bill is serious enough. According to article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum, the minimum of living is based on a minimum of living, especially on the size of state social assistance for disabled children and children with disabilities. That's what Colleague Solomatin was talking about. And because children with disabilities, people with disabilities and pensioners are assigned to one group of people who have lost their jobs, this approach does not allow them to take into account the minimum of living for these population groups as a valuable expression of their basic social and cultural needs, limiting the rights of disabled persons and children with disabilities to an adequate standard of living in accordance with their age. So I think there's a lot of reason to support this bill, it's not only a reflection of our understanding of social justice, it's a kind of refinement of legal technology, because it's a more precise definition of a categorical, understandable apparatus in the socio-demographic sphere. But I can't help but say that some points would obviously be worth taking into account in preparing for the second reading. They may not be principled, but they are. The idea is that the bill proposes that the effective date be effective on January 1, 2005. You realize that's impossible right now, obviously it's to fix. And one more moment. I'd like to make a note of that. According to the project, those who have lost their jobs are persons who have reached retirement age and who do not work. That's what colleague Suškević was talking about. Men over 60, women over 55. However, it should be noted that the proposed edition does not take into account a large number of disabled persons, namely, disabled persons, both first and second, and non - working citizens, who receive a pension on extended terms. I think by implementing these clarifications, you can absolutely accept this bill peacefully in general as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u72	Please, Shurma, the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u73	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, I'd like to turn to those hundreds of thousands of people who are now focused on what's going on in the Supreme Council and, I'd like to remind them of a few things, first of all, for them. As early as 99, the Law on Living Minimum was passed. where the definition of the very minimum of living was given, it was determined who it refers to, especially children 6 years old, 18 working persons and for those who have lost their jobs. However, there is no definition in itself as to the terms "workable persons" and "persons who have lost their jobs." And this bill, which we are considering today, is setting itself for purpose. The proposed bill aims at identifying socio-demographic population groups for which a composition is being developed, as well as the cost of not providing a minimum of living, not just depending on age and working conditions, as the current law treats it. But also from socio-economic conditions and health. Undoubtedly, working, or working - day pensioners have other needs than poor pensioners. Like children with disabilities, they have other needs than healthy children. Obviously, the bill aims to get as close as possible to meeting the basic needs of people of different demographic categories. Social status and health status, health status. However, if you follow this course, you may notice that among the incapacitated, There are very different people, and so different for them may be the minimum number of kilocalories per time to be installed, to restore strength and a variety of non-food products. But at the same time, it's clear that the minimum needs of different people's health and social status are so different that they simply cannot be taken into account in one Act on Living Minimum. The refinement of children with disabilities is, in our view, debilitating because the word "healthy" is missed in the proposed wording for the development of the body. In addition, the proposed draft definition falls short of the accepted terminology. The concept of "working persons", which uses state statistics, includes a more precise list of, inter alia, all working-age men 16-59 years old, women 16-54, except for the non-working disabled of the first and second groups and non-working citizens, who receive pensions on extended terms, working adolescents and working persons of retirement age. Thus, the bill does not refer to the number of persons who have lost their jobs as disabled persons in the first and second groups and as non-working citizens who receive benefits. Thus, the proposed bill creates co-operations in the legislative sphere that can make its application more difficult. The faction considers it necessary to adopt a bill taking into account the above observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u74	Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined. Yes, please, with Black's motives, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! There is no doubt about the need to adopt this bill. This is the case when all factions in voting can be united. This is the minimum of living for people with disabilities, first of all, the definition of socio-demographic groups and the valuable provision of a minimum of living, depending on the health and social status of one group or another. Of course, we support. I think that in the process of preparing for second reading, we need to clarify the list of people who have lost their jobs more clearly and for children with disabilities to make it clear. And then he did. Then it could be accepted in both the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to adopt the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act as a basis for first reading, and the bill's registration number is 3701. [[on the socio-demographic structure of the population]] Please vote. [[11:45:35]] For 280 Copy that. The factions, please. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 30, Communist faction - 57, "Regions of Ukraine" - 45, National Agrarian Party - 19, Social-Democratic Union - 24, "One Ukraine" - 18, Socialists - 16, Block Timoshenko - 9, "Soyuz" - 14, "Centre" - 6, "Will of the People" - 5, "Trubic Ukraine", NDP - 9, "Democratic Ukraine" - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 5, "Postfactional" - 11. Dear colleagues, it would be possible in general, but almost every speaker spoke of problems. Let's work on the second reading -- and then it'll be okay. Here's the question: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. Registration numbers 4475-1, -2 and -3. Please give the word for the report to Ponomarenko Georgi Grigorovich. Prepare Gabrieluk. Where's Ponomarenko? Is Vasil Vasilovich Gavriluk there? Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u77	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! It will be 14 years soon, as our independence has been proclaimed. All these years, the most pressing and painful issue for our citizens has been and remains the issue of the recovery of savings stolen from our citizens in the USSR Sbergbank. Although many different mechanisms have been developed to return these contributions, there have been many discussions, but no positive results have been achieved so far. Most importantly, the issue of compensation for contributions to persons, return, their heirs, who are entitled to such compensation, has not been resolved anywhere. It seems to me that it is beneficial for someone to narrow down the circle because more and more people are losing their lives, and the possibility of obtaining compensation for the heirs is unfortunately not provided for by law today. Therefore, it was necessary to resolve the matter by introducing my draft law. And I consider the adoption of this bill to be essential. The bill proposed for your consideration amending the Law on State Safeguards for the Restoration of Citizens'Savings aims to improve the mechanism for the return of savings by attracting additional sources. It is also very important to establish the possibility of obtaining compensation for the savings of the heirs of persons entitled to such compensation. The draft amends article 1 of the Act on State guarantees for the restoration of citizens'savings and provides for compensation for the savings to the heirs of persons entitled to such compensation. However, part 4 of article 6 of the Act on State Guarantees for the Restoration of Citizens provides for compensation payments, the possibility for the Government to raise funds from the National Bank of Ukraine's currency reserve. In order to implement this provision, a new article 7 is proposed, according to which funds from the gold reserve of the National Bank of Ukraine will also be channelled to compensate for the savings of citizens. The corresponding compensation will be paid in the State budget for the year in question at least 50 per cent of the increase in the currency reserve for the year in question. The previous year. It is proposed that a detailed mechanism for drawing up the above funds be developed for the Cabinet of Ministers, and we know with you that the gold reserves will not be reduced, such as during the electoral campaign, by a provincial candidate, and we do not know where those resources have been sent. How much money could be made or, for example, payments made. We know. And the last. I know that this bill has not only supporters but also opponents. But whatever they justify, we have our duty to the electorate to help them to at least some extent compensate the State's stolen contributions. It's not a crime to bring them back to people. It's a crime to return them. is to restore trust in the current authority. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u78	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Please, it's a shortened procedure, no questions asked, no bill. It was Bill 4475-2, Bill 4475-1, Ponomarenko Georgi Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Pomorenko, the Communist faction. I want to remind you that the law to which we propose to make changes was passed in November 1996. Since its adoption, there have been repeated intentions to modernize it, and they've tended to solve the most painful problem -- to return the savings. But the problem is not solved. If at this rate of 500 million a year, as we've been doing for the last three years, we're going to be saving back, it's going to take over 200 years. Our faction, the Communist faction, has repeatedly offered ways to solve this problem, one of them is to create a trust fund to pay off the compensation fund. [[It's Simonnka and Gurenko's project.]] Unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not support this bill, and the possibility of paying off the savings debt when the fund was created would have been reduced to 12-15 years. The main thing that we're proposing is that the state recognises the savings of citizens in domestic debt. Talking about this money, this 132 billion, that Moscow stole, that they disappeared somewhere, that they didn't know where, they were talking. This money in Mercedes, in the palaces of those built around the cities. To accept this money as a sovereign debt is the first step in the responsibility of the State for their return. The other one. Our law provides for an amount of at least 20 billion per year in the State Budget to be paid for at least the amount of GDP growth, and that is more than 20 billion per year. We also foresee in the law that for these purposes it will be possible to allocate additional money on the basis of the National Bank's gold reserve, as decided by the bank and the government. We propose the adoption of this law in the first reading, with its entry into force on January 1, 2004, as you know, that the 2005 budget already has 6 billion. Obviously, it's not living money, and they're going to go through the healing system. Regrettably, the Cabinet of Ministers has not yet established the order for which they will return. And there's more. Starting in 2006, the budget should provide for living money. And so, if this Law were to be passed, you could put down 132 billion over 8-10 years. I think that there was a lot of electoral promises, you have to take one step, you have to make a practical step, you have to return these savings, and it's going to be the first step in adopting this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u80	Thank you. Yes, please, Bill, Rabbit Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I can't see. He'll introduce the committee. The head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy and Works, Mr. Alexander Vasilovich, is responsible for all three bills, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u81	Bondarchuk, Communist faction. The distinguished President, the people's deputies, indeed, the problem of the return of stolen deposits from the population is very complex. Perhaps that's one of the few problems that the Supreme Council still has, in fact, hasn't, because the one percent that we've returned to the population of 132 billion bracelets is, of course, a misery. Unless significant changes are made to the existing way in which contributions are returned, this process is extended over long, long years. And the problem is not that we're going to get those 132 billion back. And apparently, it is planned to remove this problem, because investors, like all other people, are living, not forever, but with the extinction of investors, in fact, and the problem will be solved. What exactly is the reason why this issue has not been resolved to this day? As a matter of fact, the money of the investors, they went in the same direction and you know exactly where they went. This is, in fact, with privatized enterprises, our contributions have gone to the pockets of the new Ukrainians. And we're looking for money out there, so the capitalists take it and bring it back to the population. And we're trying to get everyone together and get them out of the budget there from other sources. Probably, and this is to be done today, and such bills are being submitted to the Supreme Council, two bills have been introduced by the Communists of Ponomarenko, Simonenko, Cibenko, Gavriluk, bills that offer new mechanisms for the return of deposits. They have been reviewed, these bills by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The shortcomings of these bills and the positive developments have been noted. First of all, the Communist Bill is a very important position to acknowledge the debt owed to investors by the State. The State of Ukraine must be responsible for what has happened to these contributions and cannot be translated into the hands of others. It's a gold reserve issue. A bill has now been introduced that the National Bank of Ukraine has the opportunity to use these funds to recover contributions, as before the year 99. But being then, you remember, the president was then Yushchenko, and this is the power of his bank to pay back his deposits then. We must restore justice, support these bills that we are considering today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, let's finish this discussion and then announce a 30-minute recess. Yes, I'd like a brief procedure, Puzakov, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u83	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Despite the fact that the restoration of lost citizens' savings has been taking place since the year 97 but only a small fraction of the lost deposits has been recovered and only one percent of the total debt has been recovered. If this process goes on at this rate, it will last for another 260 years. The Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Citizens’ Savings is not fully implemented in the country. So today there is a need to develop new mechanisms to recover savings and reform the entire system of compensation for lost investments. In my opinion and belief, the State Budget cannot continue to be the sole source of the solution to this painful problem. It is necessary to invent the contributions and to specify the amounts of the compensatory costs. The Communist faction has repeatedly made proposals on this issue. And one of the main things is to increase the rate of economic growth, which creates new potential opportunities in the state to realize this right. The Communists also proposed the creation of a non-budgetary account to which the funds that come from the privatization of state-owned enterprises are counted annually. But for a few years now, the authorities have been spreading their hands because they don't know where the money was. It's all sold out as privatization, but there's no sign. The Communists also offered to make use of the funds derived from the share of the state’s shares held in the stockholding companies and 25 percent of the profits of the former state - owned banks and 50 percent of the profits of the savings bank over the course of five years. The Communists strongly opposed the government bill, which proposed to reduce the level of compensation for savings of workers from 132 billion dollars to 28.5 billion dollars, which suggests a de facto restriction on the return of the nation’s national acquisitions. Communists have also repeatedly offered to include citizens' contributions to pay off debts for residential services, real estate and household equipment. But our proposals were neither accepted by the government nor by Parliament. Maybe the new government will. The bill reported by Ponomarenko, the Ukrainian national deputy, I support it. Because it has developed a real mechanism for returning citizens to their savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. After him is Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u85	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, dear voters. As a faction of Communists, we have repeatedly stressed that the problem that we are considering today is the recovery of savings for every citizen of Ukraine, each family, especially the elderly, the older generation. It was those who strengthened Ukraine’s economy by their work. He built factories and factories, money, crops, and fed the state. And he remained the same state robbed by the power that had sworn. That she would protect the interests of the people. Every acceptable day in the district begins with this problem, each second citizen’s appeal refers to the return of savings. Now, right now, in these moments, in the city of Hmelnicki, there are several thousand inhabitants in the central square of the entire area who are raising questions about the difference between the 39th article and the return of savings. They don't ask for any taxes, people ask them to return what they've earned with hard work, they've put it on a black day, denying themselves everything they need. After all, we need to understand that these savings are for a large part of our people the only hope in this difficult life, especially for pensioners who have ever hoped for a secure old age. Law on State Guarantees. Restoration of Ukrainian citizens' savings" was adopted by the Supreme Council in November 97. He made a commitment to Ukraine’s citizens who had lost their money savings as well as to government money. I would like to point out that the work of all the governments that operated during this time in Ukraine has been fuelled by such pitiful efforts to give people a meager tax of no more than 50 dollars a year. Think about it. You can buy 25 loaves of bread for these. For 10 years, we've been working around this problem, and we're almost hundreds of years away from solving it. In fact, the same policy continues now. And all because until now the unrefundable savings of citizens are not recognized as the government debt of Ukraine to its people. Therefore, I think it is very correct that the project, which is being implemented by members of the Company of Ukraine Simonenko, Cibenko, Ponomarenko, proposes that the debt on savings be paid to Ukraine's domestic debt. And it is necessary to vote for this because, in one way or another, the State pays a certain amount of compensation from the State budget annually, and this is to be legalized. The same project identifies ways and sources of compensation for devalued savings, accounting mechanisms, and real opportunity assessments. This amount of funding from the State budget. The Communist faction will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u86	Thank you. Sergey Matvienkov, faction of the "Regions of Ukraine", will be followed by Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u87	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Today, we are really considering one of the most perhaps painful issues and the most difficult issues, because how many populism have there ever been when dealing with these issues, how many insults, disappointments? We've all been through this for 14 years, really, we've heard a lot and seen a lot. It's not just money, it's the work of our fathers, mothers, it's sleepless nights, dreams, hopes. If we can imagine how much health had been lost around the problem, how many pensioners had not been waiting for this problem to be resolved, it would become ghastly. Clearly, this is a difficult issue, and I understand that we have not decided on the origin of this debt, but we need to decide that this money needs to be recovered, this is the subject today. I understand secondly that millions of people have not been waiting for this problem to be resolved, I stress, regrettably. And we need to make sure that this quantity doesn't go up. But in order to solve this problem today, we need to ask one basic question today, I believe, first and foremost, to the President and the Government: do we want to solve this problem, or do we want to talk to it again? Why am I asking this question like that? Because in the past, Tkalenko and I have drafted a large comprehensive bill that has proposed that the problem be resolved in the complex. One challenge was not to tackle inflationary problems, to stretch the process over time, and gradually to address the problem gradually that had arisen. I think we've just lost at least five years. Over the past five years, we could have moved on. Today we need to start over. Once again, I repeat those dogmas that we will not go away with: we need to make an inventory of the deposits. 132 or 137 billion bracelets that we are talking about today are virtually gone. We need to review who has them and tell them where they are. First. Secondly, we need to divide the owners of the deposits with the heirs of these deposits. And there has to be a completely different approach here. Totally broke down in the '70s and '90s. These are also different approaches, and here too we need an integrated approach to divide them in some way. Contributions should be shared. We understand very well that the lion's share of the investors is up to five or ten thousand, and that's the majority, the lion's share, that's the people that were collecting, we're going to say that on the black day. But we have a small number of people who have huge deposits, and they account for up to 60 per cent of the total of these 137 billion. And we could put them back in perspective, first of all, from those people who have up to a thousand, two and three, and, indexing, go that way. We have put forward a normal topic, but to date it remains only on the paper - the topic of interconnections, 35 of our budget, which we have adopted. Six billion in the budget. There is no mechanism to date. So once again, I ask the question: Either we talk about this, or let us sit down to write a whole, comprehensive law that will solve it. We don't have time, understand one thing: pensioners, veterans can't wait any longer. So I have this proposal, Adam Ivanovich: to vote for them in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, Democratic Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the least we need today in solving this painful problem, are emotions, especially political manifestations. And Sergey Matvienkov's rights: we have seen here, at this rostrum in these calls, all kinds of things. We once made a deal with you, let's keep this arrangement today. The MPs have agreed that we will support any legislative proposal to solve the problem of restoring citizens' savings. We must proceed from the fact that we must continue the policy of encouraging the State to find ways to deal effectively with this painful, no longer economic, not even social, but now political problem. The existence of a state is justified only when it serves society. But for example, I am sick and tired of listening to all our legislative proposals and laughing. And the rhetorical question is, Mityukov was asking questions, and other finance ministers were like, "Tell me where to get the money." When we call it where to take the money, we don't take these comments. If we don't accept this bill -- I agree with my colleague Mitvienkov -- we're not going to stop the main problem: we're not going to stop the spread of people to very poor and very rich, no middle class of language can go on. This is the most impressive indicator of the civil immaturity of our society and, unfortunately, it is about the absence and desire of the state to intervene in these processes. So I'm proposing all the bills for all three to take as a basis. [[1st, 2nd, 3rd]] Savings, of course, should be considered an internal debt, the National Bank should not be on the other side of the problem. But I'll remind all my colleagues. These three bills will not work. They're unrealistic, it's another warning to our state and to the government. Why? I'll remind you all. Since 1996, since 1997 when basic government law has been in operation, Nazbank has not created what is not a department or management, or even a financial sector that deals with this painful problem. Dear colleagues! We put the problem several times, let the government and the National Bank take part in the drafting of this bill. I'll tell you, today, the Temporary Special Commission, headed by colleague Fomenco, has concluded with Nazibank and the government the drafting of a real bill that gives real solutions to this problem, perhaps not populist, not in three or four years, but in real terms to people, we will give it to people. So I would ask the Conciliation Council to keep this bill in mind and to bring it into the session room as it is prepared and concluded by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u90	Thank you. Please. Motives, that's clear. Budget committee masters, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u91	Vladimir Mystrishkin, faction of Agrarian Ukraine. As the head of the State Debt Subcommittee, I would like to make such a point of view that, in general, by supporting the idea of the return of citizens' savings, I would like to warn the Supreme Council to take all 130 billion national debt in full. There's got to be a consistent position that won't allow today to increase the position of government debt that much. After all, this may lead to some problems with our international financial organizations, the first position. Second, by fully supporting the thesis that all laws need to be adopted mainly in order to be developed and processed by a real mechanism, not by a populian, but by a real mechanism of return. As an option, you could view this as some part of, let's say, maybe it's one 20th part of the government debt to have a legitimate basis for the return. But this should be an agreed position, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u92	Honorable colleagues will receive the motivations of those who are writing after a minute: Lechchenko, Mochchan, Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u93	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro The Communists actually offered to return the money on more than one occasion and where to take it from, but neither the Government nor the Supreme Council listened. Today my colleagues: Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Ponomarenko, and Cibenko once again offered a real solution. The whole GDP growth is on the way back. Someone's going to say it's something we need to develop. But people get money, they go to stores, they dig up clothes, they dig up household goods, they get food, they build materials, they get industry, they get agriculture, and they're jobs, they're wages, they're charging the budget, they're spending on development -- it's a boost to further real GDP growth. So I'm proposing to the people's deputies to support Bill 4475-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u94	Please, Silent Vladimir, "The only Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u95	Silent Volodymyr, "The only Ukraine." The faction of the idea of the return of savings, but we need to understand that it's not the gold and the currency, it's not the GDP increase that we're going to be able to do that, as we're happy to say. But we suggest that we support these bills and those that are adopted wait for the government on Thursday and one joint bill and then vote it out so that they don't stand in the city anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u96	Thank you, please, Black Vladimir, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the problem of return is not only a social, economic, financial and political problem, but this is also a moral problem. It is a problem of the moral responsibility of the government to its own people. The old authorities kept stalling, stalling, waiting for people to die so as not to return their savings. I wouldn't want the new power to go the same way. The main activity of government is the imitation of activity. There's a basic law, a basic law doesn't work and it doesn't work, first of all, because of the executive power. Now the MPs are proposing bills that are pushing this problem forward, so we need to adopt this. All three of them, in my opinion, are bills. Now I'd like to deny the Deputy Masters. I think that if we don't take into account the internal debt of the nation to the population, this problem will never be solved. If we count it down, it will make it a state. Not necessarily.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u98	Thank you. Well, we haven't heard Michael Melniczuk's voice in a while. Please, a minute of motive, and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. In principle, I would not insist, Adam Ivanovich, on my word, that I am very grateful that you gave me at least a few seconds. This is about the return of savings, and yet historically we might be able to go back to the history of Ukraine? Where did these billions go? What, we didn't have any heads of state back then? They today claim that they are going to the opposition. And who's going to return the money that was stolen from citizens in the early 1990s? So I think that the appropriate profile commission or the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry might answer the question -- who signed the papers that night and the night that billions were exported from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, stop the discussion, we will be determined. I'd like to pay your attention, and, by the way, some of the speakers and the profile committee have pointed out that, despite the fact that we're looking at the three bills as alternative, they're not alternative, each of the bills is complementary. It is not a denial of the previous one. So if we vote, if we vote for each of them, I repeat, we will not break the Rules, because these are changes to different articles of the Law. This is one moment. And second moment. I would like to draw attention to a presentation by the People’s Deputy Dreygo, who spoke of what was actually created by us as a special temporary commission. You know that you and I have had a serious parliamentary hearing and a government day on this issue. And really, if we now adopt these bills as a basis, maybe by then there'll be a bill long awaited by the government and the National Bank and the interim commission, and by then we'll be looking at them in the complex. So please vote on the basis of the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. Registration number 4475-1. Please vote. [[12:16:55]] For 268. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 21, communists - 57, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 49, People's Agrarian Party - 24, Social Democrats - 2, "One Ukraine" - 20, Socialists - 18, "Timoshenko - 9, "Soyuz" - 10, "Centre" - 9, "Will of the people" - 6, "Trubic Ukraine", - 10, "Democratic Ukraine" - 14, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7, non-fractional - 12. [[United]] I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. Registration number 4475-2. Please vote. [[12:17:56]] For 238. A decision has been made. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 24, Communist faction - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 12, People's Agrarian Party - 26, SDPU - 2, "One Ukraine" - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 10, "Soyuz" - 12, "Centre" - 12, "Will of the People" - 4, "Trubic Ukraine", NDP - 10, "Democratic Ukraine" - 14, "Democratic Initiatives" - 5, "Pofactionary - 11. And I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, registration number 4475-3. Please vote. Reported to the committee, it doesn't matter. [[12:18:58]] For 230 Dear colleagues, indeed the author of the bill, this is the national deputy of the Hare, did not report from the Social Democrats, Vladimir, but the committee's report mentioned. Once again, none of these bills deny each other but only reinforces one another’s articles. A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Legislation on Health Care is being complied with. [[on the recovery of benefits for medical and pharmaceutical workers]] Bill 6340 registration number. The bill's author is the National MP Vasiliev. Alexander Andryovich, please, three minutes. Get ready for the bachelor committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Health Law, No. 6340, aims to restore social justice in respect of one of the least protected categories of health and pharmaceutical workers, namely those living in urban settlements. It should be noted that, as early as 21 September 1988, an instruction was issued on how to provide free apartments with heating and lighting for teaching, medical, veterinary, cultural and cinematographic workers and cinematographers. According to the Supreme Council Regulation on the interim operation of certain acts of the Union of Soviet Union legislation, this instruction has been in force to date. It maintains an equal approach to all budget workers. However, the basics of Ukrainian health legislation were adopted in 1992 which provide for the right to free use of heating and lighting housing for nurses living in rural areas. That is, the law did not apply to medical, pharmaceutical workers who work in urban settlements. But according to the instructions, such benefits continued to be granted. The realization of the right to these benefits was suspended in 2003 and early 2004 and then resumed on 1 July 2004. However, for medical and pharmaceutical workers working in urban areas, free use of the apartment with heating and lighting has not been restored. Although many of you, I think, agree that the conditions of work, the level of infrastructure development, the socio-economic conditions of our urban settlements are very similar to those of rural areas and, at times, urban settlements are simply rural centres. In addition, we all know that what a difficult demographic situation lies in our country, what difficulties are being experienced in the health system. And if the population is still able to receive qualified medical care in large cities, the situation is compounded by a shortage of medical personnel in the same urban settlements. We must hold back those who, despite nothing, are still working under these difficult conditions, creating incentives for them. The proposed bill is aimed at restoring one of these incentives. Therefore, I would like to ask all those present in the House of People's Deputies to understand the full significance of this bill. I would like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the General Committee of the Supreme Council on Health, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour support the adoption of the bill. In this regard, my distinguished colleagues, I ask you to support and adopt this socially necessary bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u103	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood, Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachtieva reports. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Supreme Council Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood proposes to support the proposed bill, which is intended to extend to health and pharmaceutical workers living in urban settlements the right to use the apartment free of charge with heating and lighting. That's absolutely fair. First, the bill restores the social security of doctors and pharmacists that they previously used in accordance with the Guidelines on the Provision of Heating and Lighting of Pedagogical, Medical Veterinary, Cultural and Educational Workers. Secondly, it should be noted that the proposed supplement is in line with the principle of social justice, since those rights have been reserved in existing legislation for teachers, this is section 157 of the Education Act. And thirdly, it is probably very important that this bill, to a small extent, but it stimulates and facilitates the situation of health workers in small settlements, because there is statistics that are sad, that in 10 years the village lost about 10,000 doctors, 59,000 middle-sized health workers, was closed to almost 33 district hospitals, 600 local hospitals, and more than 113,000 beds in hospitals were reduced by 510 units, the basics of rural health care were reduced by 510 units. Today, 12,000 Ukrainian settlements do not have any medical facilities. I think we need to do everything we can to support health workers in villages and towns of the city. Please vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u105	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. Let's move on to the discussion, the shorter procedure. Please, Puzakov, the Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u106	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština It's hard to admit it, but it's like Ukrainian medicine lives by the principle of "treat or live." This is because there is no time to treat, and there is nothing to treat, and there is nothing to treat. After all, treatment today depends 70 percent on the patient’s wallet. According to health spending, for one patient, our medicine is 111th among the 190 countries in the world. Population health has deteriorated so disastrously that it has become a national security issue. The rural mortality rate is particularly high, and the mortality rate of children under 14 in rural areas is 1.5 times higher than in urban areas. If 20 years ago the number of healthy people in the village was 50 to 60 percent, now no more than 20. Why? The answer does not need commenting, although there are many debates around this problem. This is because the FAPs in the villages are reduced to impossible, and those who are still alive have no new equipment. The main problem is the absence of specialists in rural areas, since medical and pharmaceutical workers living in rural areas and in urban villages, unfortunately, refer to the category of the most socially vulnerable health workers. Because in Soviet times this category of workers was granted the right to free use of housing, heating and lighting, and in a sovereign and independent Ukraine these benefits were taken away, and in general they forgot about the medical staff in the village, since today the rural health workers are their own. hard work, working conditions too easy to pay. At the same time, the state forgot that such working conditions had led to a deformity of the medical mind and that the patient’s envelope would long remain more desirable than honorary literacy. Why did the sovereign state deal so cruelly with retired workers in rural areas? After all, they took away the benefits they had earned from their blood. I asked pensioners who had worked for 40 years at the Tubdispancera and had lost their benefits today twice to make a parliamentary appeal on this issue, but this category of health workers, after many years at risk of their health, never got anything. It takes thinking about people, appreciating the work that was done by the Communists, and getting a full share of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u107	Yes, please, instead of Solomon Alexandrovsky, a faction of Communists. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! The draft law under discussion restores the benefits of medical and pharmaceutical workers that they have previously enjoyed in accordance with the regulations of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. The right to free use of the apartment with heating and lighting, land tax benefits, credit, public assistance in the construction of their own dwellings should still be restored to these very categories of citizens who work in urban settlements today in small settlements. And we've already done that, and we've given that right back to teachers and preschool workers in rural areas. The widespread decline in the network of health-care institutions, which has primarily affected villages and villages, has increased the burden on workers in this area, and the lack of funding for their work has made their lives extremely difficult. But in these difficult circumstances, these people are working, helping people, and today they need their own help, and we must do so. I think not only to me, but also to many of you are people who are working today in medicine, who are working today in a farm that lives in towns of the urban type, and who are asking for the restoration of justice. Among other things, today I was approached by the deputy of our Communist faction, Parubko Omeljan Nikonović. It was only this week that 12 people came from the village of Pugachev of the Jaskovsky district of Cherkas region and asked for justice. You say the deputies have returned the benefits to teachers, to pre-school workers, and you must return these benefits to us because we work for people and work in very difficult conditions. This is the restoration of solid fuel, electricity and liquefied gas benefits. I think you and I should think about the young people who are finishing up medical institutions today, medical schools and going to work in the village. What conditions do they have, what opportunities are they today to clean up, build their home, and start a family? It's practically nothing. By adopting this law, we also help young people who want to be medics, who want to help people and who can and want to work in rural areas. I think that the right to free use of the apartment with heating and lighting, the right to land tax benefits will be a good aid, including for young people. Those who travel to the country today to heal people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u109	Please, Shurma Igor. I can't see. Then I ask Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party, to prepare for Blackyak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the bill is such that it meets the real needs of a particular part of the medical pharmaceutical workers who live in cities, towns and cities and who are deprived of the right to free use of the apartment, especially in places where medical work is particularly urgent. So, of course, in the essence of this bill, probably none of the national MPs will have any objections and most of them will vote in favour. But when it comes to the system of legislative work in this area, there are many questions. Because instead of a comprehensive approach to the development of the health sector, we see a picture of individual managers stuck in detail and at the same time not seeing the need for this important sector as a whole. What do I mean? The basics of legislation were adopted in 1992 and Article 77 of the Health Law provides for professional rights and benefits of medical, pharmaceutical, and we are talking only about paying for the apartment and, at the same time, no one is proposing changes in other matters contained in this article. In particular, the establishment of average wage rates in public health institutions is not lower than the average wage of industrial workers. Since 1992, this rule has been stated, but in practice it has not been implemented and no one has suggested how to implement it. I will also remind you that this Law provides for other benefits for health workers in rural areas. In particular, the benefits, land tax payments, credit, agriculture and the building of your own life, the acquisition of motor vehicles, other things that primary medical personnel need. The Ministry of Health would like only to depart from the practice of interest in the trade in drugs and tenders that are already criminalized. To enable the Health Committee to share the responsibility for this situation that is now in place. And in the end, so that the medical profession does not show itself to be a mutism, but rather that it really defends the rights of health workers and does not show reconciliation to the authorities, whatever that authority may be. [[medics know what that means.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u111	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Vladimir Cherniak. Volodymyr Kirilovich, on the rostrum. He won't. Please, Suprun Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u112	Ludmila Suprun, NDP faction. Our faction will support this bill. I would also like to make it clear that there is another bill registered today, which relates to the 77th article of the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Law on Health Protection at number 7013-1. And it refers to the distribution of these benefits not only to those living in urban villages but also to pensioners. Since the legislation that was in force until 1992 provided for such benefits not only for workers but also for pensioners. Should we accept these changes, or should we not? In 1992, the adoption of amendments to legislation effectively narrowed down the rights of citizens, the guarantees of citizens. And so there's an injustice, because for education workers, cultural workers, that kind of benefit in the case of non-working pensioners living in rural areas, all the benefits distributed to workers in the world were also saved for a non-working category, that is, for pensioners. As far as medical personnel are concerned, it is for this very category that is now in the countryside, in urban villages, that is extremely important, significant. We don't have enough footage to provide health care in the country. People don't want to be out of heat, without light, without flats, with minimum wage, will certainly be able to at least support citizens a little bit and secure their rights, and renew what was violated by the 1992 legislation. Of course, the question is, Can we finance these expenses and take the money to do so? It should be noted that the State Budget 2005 Act provides for the financing of such benefits, i.e. under article 77 (j). So we're only going to have to consider the amount that we're going to have to add to the state budget. I'm sure we can make the right calculations, and when we make the changes to the State Budget Act in February-month this year, we will definitely provide for additional funding for such articles. Of course, this problem is only a small fraction of a large number of questions that have arisen in connection with the provision of medical care. And I'm sure that holding parliamentary hearings on "reforming the medical system and reforming the medical funding system" will make a real difference this year. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill. And I would also like to include my proposals from this bill in the second reading of this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u113	Yes, thank you. The four national MPs have come forward with a reduced procedure, and we will be determined. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Health Protection. [[on the recovery of benefits for medical and pharmaceutical workers]] Registration number 6340. Please vote. [[13:10:25]] For 248 Thank you. The Law was adopted in the first reading. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 17, communists - 56, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 45, People's Agrarian Party - 26, Social Democrats - 1, "The One Ukraine" - 17, Socialists - 17, Timoshenko - 18, "The Union" - 0, "The Centre" - 9, "The Will of the People" - 4, "The Hard Ukraine" - 9, "Democratic Ukraine" - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 6, "The Postfraction" - 10. [[United]] There is a draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. [[about confessions]] Registration number of bill 2637. Reported to the author of the bill, National Deputy Turkinov Alexander Valentinovich. Prepare for the Phydenko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I am looking with sadness at our Hall, the Supreme Council, and such a feeling that today is not the first day of our work, but the last day, because unfortunately, our colleagues are already very tired of working in the hall. As far as the law is concerned. You know, the law is very short, and the content is simple enough. The point is, in the Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organization Act, we use a very specific term called "religious organization." And on the other hand, there are other laws, other normative acts that regulate the activities of religious organizations. And unfortunately, they were adopted at different times -- earlier, later -- and they're used very often instead of the term "religious organization," the term "faith." And it turns out that when a religious organization asks a question, it can be denied because, they say, we can only use religion. In this context, the proposal is very simple: to introduce into the Freedom of Conscience Act, where "religious organization" goes, to take religion, or religious organization, in the parentheses of religion. And here's the whole thing that's being proposed. But the adoption of this amendment can solve many issues and solve many problems. And these are the problems, I repeat, that laws that regulate activity and adopt it at different times use different terminology. I'm asking you to support him. I think that many religious organizations, they actually unite in the religion, will be grateful to our national deputies for the decision they have made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u115	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Phydenko Stanislav Stanislavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u116	Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Committee on Culture and Spirituality. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on 5 February 2003 reviewed the draft law on the introduction of additions to the article of Ukraine's Seventh Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, introduced by the Turkish People's Deputy, and suggests that the Supreme Council reject it. The bill recommends increasing the number of subjects involved in religious relations by including an entity such as “faith. ” But "faith" is not an equivalent term to "religious organization," because it defines only confession by a person or by the religious formation of an appropriate religion or religion, their religious affiliation. A religious organization is a structured religious organization that has its beliefs, its cult practices, its organizational structure, and its permanent organs. With the registration of the statute, the religious organization acquires the right to legal personality, which I stress. Ukraine’s current law on freedom of conscience and religious organizations logically refers to religious organizations, governments and centers, monasteries, religious brotherhoods, missionary societies, missions, spiritual educational institutions, and associations made up of the above - mentioned religious organizations. [[Part 2, Article 7]] This bill is contrary to the Constitution. [[Part 3, Article 35]] The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus in its statement of 3 February 2003 considers the proposed supplement to be unacceptable and inappropriate. Dear colleagues! The purpose of the bill was to remove the differences in terminology and in the understandable apparatus. It should be noted that there are many in the law of love and in this law too. However, the realization of the plan of the Turkinov people’s deputy proved to be a failure, in my view. The mistake is that it identifies the notion of "religious organizations" and "faiths," which is essentially different things. He writes in his explanatory note to justify the need to use the concept of “faith, ” that is, religious organizations are formed to satisfy the religious needs of religions. Well, that's not an argument. Not religions, but members of religious organizations are satisfied with religious needs and so forth. The religion may be one and the religious organizations of this religion may be several and so forth. So the Supreme Council's decision is to reject the bill introduced by the Turkish People's MP as one that practically adds nothing to the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u117	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, Solomonine, the Communist faction. He will be followed by Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, from time to time, we perform with some of the money that surprises not only us, the national deputies of Ukraine, but also society. So I would like to encourage every national MP, including myself, that the innovations that were proposed in this bill would not appear because they are surprising, so softly speaking. And secondly, they're forcing us to spend the time that we might be able to talk about more important tasks. I agree with the reports that this bill should be rejected, because the innovations that it proposes regarding the definition of certain relationships between the concept of "faith" and "religious religion" do not meet the standards that have already been established in our legislation. I would also like to say a few words, and here's what's religious. I was approached by a 40-year-old retired teacher, a veteran of the work of Jurik Olga Alexandrovna from the village of Datsky Korsun-Shevchenkov district of Cherkas region. And she turns to me, asking me, on her behalf, to address a very devout man, a Christlike man, and she begs again, as do many other voters, whom I have read from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and Leonid Mikhailovich has lied, promised, addressed him, received an answer, your letter in the archive will be nothing. [[This is our colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Czernovetský Leonid Mihajlovich]] So I'd like to ask for that too. If a person is religious, the more he becomes an assistant to the President of Ukraine, then he has to keep his promises and not cheat people, the more simple people who believe every word that comes out of the Supreme Council stand right here. That is why I ask both the President of Ukraine, Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, and his assistant, Czernovetsk Leonid Mihajlovich, the Ukrainian national deputy, to keep the promises they make to their constituents and to our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u119	Please, Oleg Zarubinski, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party, will be followed by John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u120	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, with your permission, I will not engage in empty conversations, mentioning entirely other deputies who do not apply to this bill, which is against everyone, all the more so inadvertently. I will speak solely of the bill submitted by the Turkinov People's Deputies. I'm a long way from thinking that he's completely useless, completely unsuccessful, and so on. I think he's just wrong. The point is, our respectable colleague is trying to make some terminology. And indeed, the sphere of religious relations, interfaith, religious relations is so delicate that any nuance of terminology, understanding, categorical can lead to undesirable consequences. In this case, I don't see the side effects of adopting this bill, but I don't see any positive effects. It seems to me that this error stems from an inaccurate shipment or an inaccurate sensation, which is in the explanatory note that it says. In particular, it refers to the terms of religion, I quote, and the religious organizations, which are essentially one whole thing here, you know, a mistake. I'm not going to open old dictionaries last century or even the past. Here is the 2004 political encyclopedia, the official edition of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. And I'm opening up a position on the religion. "Conphesion is a community of followers of one religion or another based on a religious approach. In organizational terms, religion is sometimes associated with the concept of the church in the broad sense of the word, religion becomes a relatively broad union to which it is defined," and this is important, "usually not only by free choice, but also by tradition. Hence the recognition of each person's ability to become a member of a particular religion, or a church." And the key is why I don't think these are the same questions. "Actually, there is no permanent and strictly controlled membership in the religion, and its followers may be anonymous." A very different situation with a religious organization, as you well understand. I don't think I should support this bill, even though it is obvious that some changes will be made and they should be made if we were to implement this bill into the Law existing on general military duty and military service. I think that you realize that there is a connection here, because there is a possibility that some, not some, religious organizations may be deprived of their services and may be involved in alternative service. If a person considers himself to be Orthodox, Muslim, Jew, and so forth, it is clear that this cannot be the basis
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u121	Thank you. Ivan Hare, "Our Ukraine" faction, behind him will be Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u122	Well, the other way around, I'm telling you. John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear friends, there is indeed some inadequacy in the various laws. If we take the Law on Military Duty and take, for example, the same Law on Religious Organizations, we will see that conformity is, inadequacy. But the author of the bill also tries to unify two concepts — religion and religious organization. And it's like, if you look at it from the bottom of our eyes, it's a good desire to unify the understandable apparatus of our legislation. But if we go further into our legislation, we're going to see that relations in this area are regulated between religious organizations, between religious organizations and the state, between religious organizations and citizens, because the concept of "religious organization" is the structural link that lies in the system of these relationships. As far as religion is concerned, it is indeed an ideological trend that can unite a whole group of religious organizations that can unite a whole, perhaps even a group of churches. So from this point of view, I understand the desire of the Turkish national MP to unify these things, and from another point of view, I see that such a proposal can create a lot of contradictions, because it will narrow down such a broad notion as religion to such a notion as a religious organization. And around the concept of "religious organization" is the question of ownership, which is very important today. And I'm afraid we can't break wood here. I think we should go in from the other side today. If there is any conflict between laws, then it is a broader concept and a narrower concept, rather than a narrower concept. Because anyway, I'm saying, we have a problem in this direction, we have a lot of problems in this direction. We'll take, I say, it's a property issue, and we see how the former churches, take the same Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Russian Patriarchate, they think in medieval categories. They think that if Laura once stood literally in the district of Kiev, and they lived a solitary life at that time, today, while in Kiev, we can live the same life that we did. So today there's some transformation in this thinking, some transformation in the direction of immersion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u123	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Please, Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u124	Dear colleagues. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. God is one, and religions are many, churches, religions, religious organizations. In general, it is a very delicate aspect of a person’s relationship with God, an intimate sphere. But this is not what the bill is about, this is not the subject of the bill. And that's very good, and that's the right thing to do. Because it is best not to interfere in this intimate area. But there is a need to regulate the relationship between people of religion, religion, and the church. And that's justifiable. The bill does not specifically deal with theological features. If so, I guess we had no reason to accept it, approve it, approve it. It's aimed at unifying legislation on this matter, in relation to religions. There are different laws. And there are different interpretations in different laws. Hence, it was necessary for the legislator to unify the laws of churches, religions, and religious organizations. A specific example. The Law allows alternative service to people who for religious reasons refuse to serve in the army to serve. They come there, they read: the law says "religious organization," there's a religion. How should we treat it? Go serve because it's written differently. And so there was a need, and many others can be cited as examples, just no time, to unify legislation. The authors conclude that the religion is also a religious organization. That's what's the novelty of the bill. My colleagues have already said here that this is a question of debate, but at least it's an attempt to unify legislation and give a clear interpretation of various laws, and that's right, I say again. So I think we have reason to accept the bill today in the first reading, but in the process of preparing for the second reading to take into account the observations here, the right suggestions were, I think they will come, and improve the law in the process of preparing for the second reading. There is no limit to improvement, but the time allowed is limited. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u125	Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. [[about confessions]] Registration number 2637. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:29:49]] For-68 Maybe one more time? I'm proposing that this bill be re-readed. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:30:15.]] For-94 The decision is not supported, the bill is rejected. The draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on scientific matters is being complied with. [[on the marginal age of management]] Registration number 2552. As long as Polishchuk is coming. It's over, let's give it to you. Please, Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk. From the Committee of the Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities is a general law that extends to scientific, scientific, technical, scientific and pedagogical activities, establishes the only legal, organisational and financial conditions for all subjects in this field. Along with the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, there are academic and pedagogical staff in higher education institutions at the third to fourth levels of accreditation to age restrictions on management positions. Under the law, the running age of candidates for higher education may not exceed 65 years. This situation is appropriate for all areas of scientific activity, which will contribute to the staff upgrading of managerial scientific posts and the growth of forward-looking scientific and scientific teaching staff. The introduction of such a situation does not violate the rights of scientists. A scientist at retirement may engage in scientific activities and work under a contract but not in a managerial position. It should be noted that management positions in science and science education institutions are, as has been said, engaged on a competitive basis. When a candidate reaches the age of retirement, his documents for the competition should not be accepted. The situation is: "The age of candidates for the post of head of the scientific institution and candidates for the post of head of the structural department of the scientific institution cannot exceed 65 years. I'd like to say, people's deputies, that today the judges of the Constitutional Court work until they're 65 years old, the judges of the Supreme Court up to 65, the civil servants too. So far, science and science and pedagogical personnel have pensions as government officials, or 80 or 90 percent of the pension. In view of what is needed today, and not just today, but in general, the growth and growth prospects of young people to open up, I propose in the bill that the submission of documents be restricted to 65 years of age, i.e. at the age of 64, 11 months of age, you can work, thus, to the 70th, practically, years. But no more. Believe me, in all of the countries of the world, Europe, America, Australia, that's the norm. It's not just us. I'm asking you to support this bill, because everyone is getting older, and physiology is the same for scientists as it is for officials. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u127	Thank you, Mikola Efremovich. Is there a need to discuss? And from the committee, please, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. None. Kafarski from the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the committee received this law in March 2003 and sent letters to the scientific community to consult. The Ministry of Agrarian Politics, the Ministry of Industrial Policy, and the Ministry of Health have come to support the bill. The bill was not supported by the Ministry of Education and Science, the national and branch of the Academy of Sciences. The main reason is that a large number of directors today are at retirement age. The introduction of the law will lead to an unanimity replacement of nearly half the leaders of scientific institutions and a large part of the middle - class leaders, which will seriously affect the quality of management and of science schools. IN NAN Ukraine, 44 percent of the total number of directors and 13 of their deputies should be replaced. According to the results of the replies received, the committee postponed the draft for the fourth session and later, in April 2003, considered the bill. It was six votes in favour, three votes in favour. I would like to remind you that on 7 July 2004, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine dealt with the constitutional submission of 56 National Deputies on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine with paragraph 39 of the Higher Education Act on the Maximum Age of Candidates as Head of the Higher Education Institute. I would like to remind you that article 39 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act stipulates that the age of the candidate for the post of head of the higher education institution 3 or 4 may not exceed 65 years. On this point, 56 Ukrainian national deputies filed a lawsuit that was satisfied with the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Ukraine's Higher Education Act has lost its own. This is the position of the Higher Education Act. The bill under consideration today proposes to introduce a similar norm to article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific, Scientific and Technological Activities for the heads of scientific research institutions and scientific departments. Therefore, in view of the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court, this rule should be regarded as contrary to the Constitution. At the same time, I will point out that Ukraine's laws on public service and on the judiciary of Ukraine, the borderline age of office is clearly limited: for government officials in the 60s, for judges in the 65s. That is, Ukraine's law imposes certain age restrictions on occupied positions, and they are not defined by unconstitutional ones. That's why the committee decided to support the bill and also supported the bill by the Scientific and Experimental Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u129	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? That's an interesting problem. Please, Rodionov, the Communist faction. He's got Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u130	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mikola Efremovich, very important! Dear radio listeners! The Communist faction will not vote in favour of this bill and that is why. First. It's kind of aimed at a useful cause, but we've said it over and over and over again, and now we're saying that in Ukraine, the social status of scientists. It has reduced the social status of scientists not because of the heads of these institutions, but the State's policy of supporting scientific and scientific and technological activities has contributed to this. I would like to point out that virtually all of Ukraine’s independent time, there was a policy of destroying the country’s scientific potential. That's why it's confirmed. During 1992-1999 alone, the share of the State budget's expenditure on scientific and scientific and technical development has been reduced, I emphasize, cut fourfold, and Ukraine is now at the same level as the far-off countries themselves. That is why the number of scientists has dropped by twofold compared to Soviet times. The impoverished status of a scientist is the reason that there is a lack of leadership in scientific activities. I want to point out that, even under such conditions, Ukraine still does not retain any scientific potential today, it is also due to those leaders of the scientific institutions that are still formed in Soviet times, whose initial work for the country and then for themselves. I would like to point out that the existing competitive positioning practice has sometimes justified itself. It still allows us to get rid of a loving steward, regardless of age, if he is not fit for office in his business or moral qualities. And today, as science becomes the driving force of all developed countries, we propose to support the bill. This support is the destruction of the last existing science schools and it pushes Ukraine to the brink of scientific and technological progress. And what we failed to do at first, that is to destroy scientific activity definitively, is what we want to do today, as they say, to get to the end. The Communist faction believes that it is not necessary and invites you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u131	Please, Oleg Zarubinski, People's Agrarian Party. He's followed by a nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u132	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask this question in a different plane. This is not about the social status of scientists, and the more it should not be about disrespect or disrespect for our wise scientists, who have done much for Ukraine, what they have done for the economy, what they have done for the spiritual sphere, and so on. It's completely different. Can science develop today when we have a huge number of people, I don't even want to make a percentage, are people who have been far over 60 years. And you know very well, if you make a cut, or monitor the age of Doctors of Science real, I'm not talking about civil servants, including MPs. And these doctors of science who worked on their dissertation, the candidates of science and so forth, I think you'll realize that people under 30 are extremely few to 35 years old. I don't want to absoluteize the words of famous classical physicists who said that all great discoveries are made within 30 years, obviously part of the truth is, but maybe it's not quite right. I'd like to talk about something else. So when we read this bill, we see: the scientific institution, the scientific and the scientific and the technical activity. Dear friends, please tell me, what should all scientific and scientific institutions wear and be state-owned? Why we're used to the fact that when we talk about scientific institutions, we talk about government institutions all the time. Where are the privates? Where are the minions? Let's face it, let's face it, in most countries, real popular scientific institutions don't exist at the expense of the state budget, or only partly at the expense of the state budget. And another moment, it seems important to me, right now, to me the weight, it's not about people, if, when a person works at 67 years of age as a head of a scientific institution should be deprived of their jobs, absolutely not. She's working on a contract that can be five years old, which can be another year or so. The point is that when a person is 65 years old and wants to enter into a new contract, it is obvious that a young person should be given the road. And no one is removing this person from the scientific path, let him continue to work as professors, as scientific advisors, at least for 120 years. It's just about managers of science, about people who have to do administrative work, if you want, let's talk in modern language, in manufacturing even in science functions and so on. So I would like to take a closer look at this bill, to understand that it is not discredited or discriminatory in relation to our wise scientists, it can at any rate allow young scientists to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine", prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u134	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the bill proposes to set a limit age for leadership in science. It's been 65 years. I understand very well that this is a response to a situation that has really arisen in science where a generation of people of quite a good age has not been able to take the lead in science for younger generations. So the bill is aimed at rejuvenating the management of science. I will personally, in deep doubt, vote in favour of this bill, perhaps we need it. But what I'm trying to say is that I can't be very positive about it. After all, the work in science, like everywhere else, is an individual activity. And you probably need to introduce some kind of individual approach. But since the legislation may be difficult to do, and since there is a problem of rejuvenating, the bill is needed. But it is known that prominent scientists were both leaders and world practice in both 65 and 70 and 80 years of age. And the same Rutherford, mentioned by Zarubinsky’s deputy, who studied Capitsa. He's been a long time. It is known that Darwin is also known that Newton and the modern - day many scientists are prominent in the world’s name. I mean, it's not that clear and simple. But once again, since our actual circumstances have created a problem, the legislator responds to it. And it's only from this point of view that we can support the bill. Among other things, Reagan became president when he was 69 years old. There were two terms and he was one of the best presidents of the United States. General de Gaulle became president at the age of 70 and was an outstanding president. That is why we have such a disrespectful attitude toward old age. I understand, but when there's a whole layer of people who've blocked the access of young people, there's a need to move this layer. So let's count the conjuncture of the moment, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u135	As always, it's wise. Please, Melniczuk Mikhailo, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u136	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected author of the Mikolo Efremovich bill. I respect such a strong figure. And yet the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has an opinion on this. And we would like to be very careful about adopting or rejecting this bill. Most of all, we agree that we will refrain from supporting this bill just because we have no idea who it will touch all over Ukraine. Shall we not do so that today's best-powered professionals will be sent by this law either to retirement or beyond the direction of a scientific institution at a time when they may have given 40 or 50 years of their youth and, we'll speak, their practical activities to one institution or another. Who better to know the scientific institution than the man who worked here for decades? And that's why, in my opinion, it's my personal opinion that we shouldn't be in such a hurry to adopt this bill, because, once again, we have to look at it. After all, I support Mr. Cherniak's opinion, because my colleague Cherniak, as no one else, knows the problems in this area. I often communicate with Sergey Ivanovich of the Communist Party faction, and this person has a very different opinion than was said here about what should be accepted. Let's be careful, dear friends, let's get to the adoption of this bill. Maybe we'll take another look at who's involved. Maybe some others are the framework that. If we really need someone, we're going to talk, we're going to sit in a position and there's no further development of this institution or institution to look at it. Perhaps some qualified commissions would have missed the heads of these institutions and thus given their summary of whether or not they corresponded to the position of one or the other. I'm still thinking cautiously. I know an example in the Chernobyl area, we did it with the judges. And today, Vladimir Seraphimovich Ishchenko, the former head of the Court of Appeal, could work. But he was sent to retirement. He is currently teaching at the Faculty of Law of the University of Cherniewec. I don't think it would be so, very fast, hasty to do in order for us to adopt this bill. That's why I'm abstaining from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u137	Thank you. Now, dear fellows, now. Question completed. On the basis of the vote, please, academic Toločko. Mikola Efremovich, you will receive the final word. Microphone Touch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u138	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, today I can refer to a black man who always says he's in deep thought. I'm also in the middle of thinking about it, because it's a standard for taking up a job, and it would be better if you took part in a job competition, that's the first. Secondly, the norm is laid down only for state institutions, and for private scientific and scientific institutions it is not established, so one part of scientists is discriminated against in comparison to another. And the third, the Constitutional Court, as we know, has annulled the rule laid down in the Higher Education Act. So why should we accept it so that 50 or 150 scientists will be brought before the Constitutional Court tomorrow and this rule will be repealed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u139	Yes, please, Silent Paul, one minute. Rudenko's behind him, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u140	Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian National Party Dear colleagues! Of course, it's a difficult question. It's understood that many of the so-called "immortals" need to be mummified or, at least, to be forever in office and remain the brakes that they are in fact. These are not names such as those in Russia, Lichachov, who was the director of the Institute of Literature, or Pushkin House, until the last day. It's about those who, in fact, have closed up any prospect for young people today. And that's why it's oriented and it's written this law -- the stimulation of national scientific thinking, the coming, the flow of new blood. And I think we should give that opportunity now. To make Ukraine feel that it is, indeed, a promising nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! What Mikola Efremovich proposed, is a man of honor, of old age, but he has the courage and understanding that the road should be opened to young people, and I personally have the admiration. And I think we don't have to adopt a lot of legislation to give young professionals jobs, we just have to do legislation properly. And when. I want everyone to remember how many times he responded to the letter of the civil servants, aged 65 - 66, where they have asked us, MPs, to lobby for them to continue their work for at least a year. I personally signed three or four such letters. I think we just need to get to the point that at 65 years of age, let him do the scientific work of an expert, but the manager is the manager, and today, the manager is supposed to be the personification of a new generation. Therefore, we should honor the elderly but give way to the young.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u143	Thank you. The closing word is by Mikola Ephraimovich Poljczek, one minute, middle-aged man.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u144	Thank you. It's the middle one. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! It says, "The age of submission of documents for the 65-year term of office." So 64 and 11 months can serve and occupy. You see, all people get the same age, all physiology is normal: who before, who later. A player in 32 goes out, or 30; a ballerina in 32 goes out, someone else does. Well, scientist, think, 60 years or five or six diseases per person. How difficult it is to manage these new conditions today! Heart attacks, strokes. The manager should be sharp, flexible, not just sitting up and sitting down. Look at the effectiveness of our research institutions: in medicine, as much as 0.2 percent of the introductions into scientific research. And so everything. So don't we want to make a little push to make young people move?Oh, my God! It's normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. I would like to recall once again the words of my colleague Toloczka, who said that the problem was, unfortunately, settled by a decision of the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court’s decision is final, the charge is not admissible, it is only for the execution of all authorities, including the Supreme Council. That's one thing. The other one. Maybe Mikola Efremovich, or maybe let's suggest a category like that of cosmonauts -- doubles. Let the manager run it, and he'll have a young double. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on scientific matters. [[on the marginal age of management]] Registration number of bill 2552. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:30.]] For 116 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 71, Communists, Ukraine - Zero, National Agrarian - 19, Social Democrats - 9, Ukraine - 1, Socialists - 0, Timoshenko - 14, Union, Center, People's Will, Labour Ukraine, NDP, Democratic Ukraine, Democratic Initiatives - Zero, Non-frakional - 2. [[United]] Thus, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, for one more time? Come on. Who's in charge of rerouting the first one, please make up your mind. [[13:57:23]] For 116 It's 116, just like the first reading, so it's rejected. Dear colleagues, we should now listen to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to certain legislative acts of Ukraine, but also to the committee of profile, and the drafters ask for it to be transposed. [[on distribution agreements in the field of drug use]] No objections? I won't. Well, I guess then we'll have a break with you by 4:00. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Dear colleagues, before they break up, listen to me. According to article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Franchuk Igor Anatoliyovich, from the composition of the MP's Social Democratic Party. [[united]] And another announcement. The parliamentary faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Labour Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine informs us that now the name of the faction is the MP faction of the People's Democratic Party and the "Republic" group. I'm calling it a break again.
