ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Yes, turn on the "Council" system. [[10:03:45]] They registered in the 405 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today’s professional festival of radio, television, and communications workers. Let us welcome our fourth - power colleagues and wish us all fruitful cooperation. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Matvienkovy Sergio Anatoliyovich. Let us also welcome Sergio Anatoliovich and wish him success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, now information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council at the plenary on November 15, 2005. 23 questions of the agenda have been considered. According to the review, two laws and two decrees were passed, nine bills were adopted on a basis, one bill was designed to be redrafted, and 12 bills were rejected. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I'd like the factions to file a statement. In the meantime, allow me to announce the questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. A PANASOVSKO Oleg to the President of Ukraine on the conformity of the Presidential Decree on measures to improve the efficiency of electricity management.” I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:05:47]] For-157. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:08]] For-173 The decision is not taken. Teams of deputies to the President of Ukraine on the repayment of debt from earnings to state-owned enterprises on the basis of the funds received from the privatisation of state property. [[VERNIDOUBOV, CORSACOV, COMAR]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:47]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Mr. KARNAUH to the President of Ukraine on the violation and consideration of the question of the appropriateness of the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Pritika to the position taken by law. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:17]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Sergia Soboljeva to the President of Ukraine on the threat of loss of State control over the production of strict reporting documents and the need to draft a bill on state securities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:48]] For 114 The decision is not taken. VITALY MOYCA to the President of Ukraine on the possibility of making documentation available by the end of 2005 under previously concluded external economic contracts on the basis of permits issued by Derzexportcontrol. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:28]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Peter SIMONENKA and Victor PETROVA to the President of Ukraine for damages to businesses of light industry caused by an artificial increase in the rate of fines relative to the euro and the US dollar and the exemption from positions of head of the National Bank and the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:07]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Jurya CARMAZINA to the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister, for the prevention of the threat of national security in the form of a substantial reduction in the defence and readiness of the Armed Forces as a result of the liquidation of the Odessa Institute of Land Forces, the verification of the validity of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 26 May 2005. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:09:47]] For-96 The decision is not taken. ROBERT to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for violating the requirements of article 78 of the Constitution by the national deputy Vasil Onopenko. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the rejection of Bill No. 4036 on the right of a person to a defence from the moment of detention in accordance with article 29 of the Constitution. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for the provision of housing for many children. Mr Wojša to the Prime Minister, Head of the Herson District State Administration, on the status of implementation in the Herson area of the State-wide Water of Ukraine programme and the Regional Water of Hersonschina programme. Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister on Coal Status in relation to Underfunding as foreseen in the 2005 State Budget. [[TURMAN, SCOUDAR, PANASIAN, AND OTHER]] John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister on the elimination of the acquisition of fixed agricultural taxes from state agricultural enterprises as a result of financial and economic activities in 2005. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Herson District Council on the rightfulness of the transfer of the Radyuga District Children's Health Camp to private property. Tamara PROSKURATO the Prime Minister, the Attorney General for the harassment and unfounded repression of the “Vincipina” group by the heads of the district government and the district council. The Gennady of the Prime Minister’s Wedding in connection with the violation of language legislation in the area of film. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Prime Minister for the protection of the Crano-building plant of the January Uprising from destruction. Stepan GAVRISHA to the Prime Minister for violations of legislation and sanitary and epidemiological norms in the use of the natural resources of the Eastern mineral waters. Olga HINZBURG to the Prime Minister on the rightfulness of land allocation and the legality of its use in the construction of a water object in the village of Viszko Koropa district of Chernigiv region. Vassil HARA to the Prime Minister for the implementation of the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection of Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children. Joseph WINSKI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Agrarian Politics, Head of the Kyiv District Government Administration, Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, regarding the situation in the Moscow Council of Technology. Mr. Andria SKILLY to the Prime Minister on the fact that an armed attack was carried out on Colonel Valentin Križanowski's SBU and on the involvement of the head of the SBU in criminal activities. MICHELLE TO THE Prime Minister for an unsatisfactory response to a request for a review of the need for the development and implementation of the Gas Consumption Reduction Program. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister for the financing of gasification facilities in the Donetsk region, at the expense of state budget subsidies. Leonida Kadenjuk to the Prime Minister for the provision of a financial grant to Novodnystrovsk City to ensure payment of salaries to budget workers for the first quarter of 2005. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the removal from office of the head of the Romani District State Administration of the Zitomir Region for the political persecution of members of the media. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the irresponsible attitude of officials of the Ministry of Economics towards the purchase of artificial kidney medicines for patients of the Zaporezki District Clinic. Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister for the regulation of purchase prices in the milk and meat market. Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for granting permission to the Ministry of Transport and liaison to develop investment projects and construction in the South Seaport. [[SEVEN, SAS, SUNDAY]] Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of renal insufficiency to patients in the Zaporez County Hospital of Emergency Medical Care. Istwana HYDOSH to the Prime Minister, Head of the Zacarpathian Authority on the socio-economic situation in the Zacarpathian region. Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Prime Minister for inadequate heat in the town of Ordjonikidze Dnipropetrovsk. A group of MPs to the Prime Minister to ensure that patients with kidney disease lack the necessary medication. [[CHILD, CONSTANTINOV, CLIMPUS, AND OTHERS]] Mr. Wojša to the Prime Minister for the construction of coastal fortifications in the village of Lazurne Skadovian district of the Hersonian region. OCIKI to the Prime Minister for the holding of a special meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on the State regulation of the market in securities and the report of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets to the Supreme Council. Peter SIMONENKA and Victor PETROVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for damages to businesses of light industry caused by the artificial increase in the currency of the euro and US dollars, and for the responsibility of the head of the National Bank and the Minister of Finance. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for bringing to justice the responsibility of the head of the Romani District State Administration of the Zitomir Region for the illegal closure of the Sobolian School of Public Education. Mr Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister on the violation of article 10 of the Constitution by the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets, held on November 8, 2005. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister for the short-term implementation of commitments to the local budget for the construction of the Mostisk - Malinov gas pipeline in the Lviv region. Vasil Hara to the Prime Minister on the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers to implement certain provisions of the Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations “Social Insurance and Social Security in Ukraine: Today’s Situation, Problems and Prospects for Development”. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister for non-payment of the current full-time salary and repayment of debt to coal workers. [[TURMANOV, CORSACOV, SQUADAR]] Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Attorney-General on the legality of the Ministry of Economics' decision to deprive the Zaporozhye District Clinic of the possibility of auctioning for the purchase of waste materials that endangers the lives of the people of renal insufficiency. Mr Bokogo to the Prime Minister on the reasons for the violation by the Prime Minister of article 17 of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. Mr. Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister on the appeal of the people of the village of Rakov-Lis Kamin-Kashir district of Volinsk to help clean up the meliorrhial channel. Anatoly of ORJAHOV to the Prime Minister on the negative impact of nuclear and thermal power plants, chemical industries on public health and the environment. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the misuse of citizens' funds and delay in carrying out Naftogaz Ukraine financing the construction of gas pipelines and gasification of rural settlements in the Volinsk region. Mr Vladimír LÄCHENKA to the Prime Minister on the reasons for ignoring the legitimate rights of the national deputy established by the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Transport and Communications, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Kiev City Head, Head of State Roads Service, Head of State Committee on Housing and Utilities on the direction of solving the transport problems of the city of Kiev and the Kyiv region and their funding from the State Budget. Ms. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister for a formal review of the duties of Minister of Agrarian Politics Demczak of the matter raised by the National Deputy regarding the situation in rural utilities. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister for the provision of a bus to the Balthazarian School of Education in the Chaplin district of Herson. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister for the elimination of shadow schemes for the implementation of mining and metallurgical products that cause multibillion-dollar damage to the State and for the establishment of a State Expert Commission for the establishment of export indicative prices for the product concerned. Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for gas pipelines and gas distribution sites in the village of Šramkovka Drabovsk district of Cherkas region. GREGORY OF CALETNIKA to the Prime Minister on discrimination in the work of experts in the engineering groups of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and in the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of the destruction of ammunition in the village of Novo Bogdanovka. Mr Mikoli BudagyanZA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Economics, Minister of Finance, acting as Head of the Budget Committee on the allocation of funds for the implementation of the measures approved by the Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 13 July 2004 No.919, and the “Lesgansk Drinking Water” programme. Alexander KISELVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General for the violation of the constitutional rights of employees of the Open Shareholders Association, the Chekhtobuilder, of the Selidiv Region of the Donetsk Region, in connection with their non-payment of salaries since September 1998. Valeria BORZOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the gasification of the villages of Maryanovka and the Long Kozelščina district of Poltava. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister on the publication of the current Cabinet of Ministers Decision on the payment of the Prime Minister's work. Mr. Vladimir CHAPPETIN to the Prime Minister for the establishment of the Children's Social and Psychological Rehabilitation Centre in Chugoviv, Kharkiv. Mr. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, regarding the appeal of the light veteran to the formal approach of the Ministry of Defence to the issue of granting him the status of “Participant of hostilities”. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General for countering production and the introduction of mixed petrol from the Ukrispirt concert and from individual government officials, particularly the Minister of Baranovsky. Vassil NADRAVIA to the Prime Minister for damages to the “Luganskvoda” district utility. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to the Prime Minister for subsidies to the local budgets of the Lugansk region for the cost of electricity used for the supply of drinking water. VADIM MISSURE to the Prime Minister for the return of the Ministry of Finance of 971 million dollars to the community of Kiev, according to the ruling of the Kyiv People's Court. Victor MIRONENA to the Cabinet of Ministers on speeding up the conclusion of the Agreement between Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Act on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space. Mr. Alexander CERNOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Transport and Communications, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Kyiv City Head, Head of State Roads Service, Head of State Committee on Housing and Utilities for the return of the city of Kiev to illegally decommissioned funds by cancelling removals from the city to the 2006 State Budget and channelling the funds received to further finance the construction and design of the Kyiv Metropoliten. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister for the protection of the interests of the State, as owner of the control package of the open stock company “Built-mounting Authority No.20”. MICHELLE BUDGY to the Prime Minister on the gasification of mining cities and villages and rural settlements. VICTOR MIRONENA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the first-line conclusion of interstate agreements that have a bearing on the position of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan with regard to third countries for the formation of the Single Economic Space. Larissa SACHANKO to the Cabinet of Ministers, Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the illegal decision of the Commission to deal with complaints by the parties to the proceedings at State expense, resulting in a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens with chronic renal insufficiency. MICHELLE TO THE OFFICE OF THE MINISTRY regarding the inadequate state support of agribusiness operators in the Northern Polissa District. Vladimir MAZURENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko on violations of the rights of the Church of the Church of the Russian Orthodox Church in connection with the failure to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On urgent measures to definitively overcome the consequences of the totalitarian policy of the former Soviet Union on religion and the restoration of the rights of churches and religious organizations”. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the review of the Ravenna District Attorney’s Office, who has unjustifiably violated a criminal case against the head of the department of State executive services in the province of Ravenna. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the conduct of a review of the activities of the heads of the agricultural society with limited responsibility for the “Friendship” of the Jmerin district of Winnitsky. Teams of deputies to the Attorney General, the Minister of Education and Science on the investigation of a criminal case for the violation of electoral legislation concerning the Rector of the Donetsk State University of Economics and the trade of the name Tugan-Baranovski. [[CORRESPONDENT IN LUKIENKO, SEVCHUK]] MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General on the illegal conduct of the management of the Kiyivenergo energy supply company. Kseniya LAPINOY to the Attorney General, Head of the Board on the threat of the destruction of the public sector of the production of documents of strict reporting by conspiring with the former head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the private consortium “EDAPS”. Valerija Suškević to the Attorney General, who performed the duty of the Vinick City Head for failure by the City Council of Winnick, to prescribe the city’s Attorney’s Office for the elimination of violations of the legislation protecting the pension categories of citizens regarding the granting of housing to the disabled group II from childhood. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board for the illegal construction of a business centre on Artema Street in Donetsk. Valeria ASADCHEVA to the Attorney General for the enforcement of electoral legislation. Valentina ANASTASIJEVA to the Attorney General regarding the unlawful allocation of land by the Gnydin village council of the Borispil region. Valeria SAMOPLAVSKI AND MICHALI SHERSHUN to the Attorney General for expediting the prosecution of the Zitomir district on the charge of Vladimir Bogdanek. Jury SOLOMATAN to the Attorney General, the head of the interim investigation committee on the investigation of the poisoning of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine of the People's Deputies Victor Yushchenk in connection with the speculative information company Rudolfinerhaus on the accelerated withdrawal of dioxin from the body of the sick man Victor Yashchenk in the case of poisoning the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, the head of the Supreme Economic Court, the head of the Kyiv Economic Court of Appeal, the head of the Supreme Court for violations of the law by the judge of the Kyiv Kovtun Regional Court. Larissa VACHENKO to the Attorney-General on the legality of the decision of the Executive Committee of the Lviv Region concerning the sale of land and the construction of the Children's Music School to the Society of Lviv ShopRozdyb. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the delay in investigating the murder of 15-year-old Mikolia Nadjárna. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney General on the legality of the actions of the Provne Prosecutor’s Office regarding the citizen of Lecha. Anatoly OF DOMANSKO to the Attorney-General on the legality of the decision to privatize the Žitomir hotel complex. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Attorney General, Prosecutor of Zaporezki District, on the violation by the Prosecutor's Office of the Citizens' Appeal Act. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Attorney General for the Legality of Exclusion under the Construction of Land Areas, where private homes of residents of the streets of Pripyatska and Poznakovskaya are located. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General for beating up the deputy head of the Larissa Rudnik Regional Party’s regional district organization, a deputy to the head of the Rokitni district government administration, Sergey Bertash. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for the forced eviction of residents of buildings on the prospectus of the University City of Kyrovgrad, which is the property of the Open Shareholder Society “Kirovograd bud”. Tamara PROSCURATO to the Attorney General on the illegal privatization of the closed-ended Zacarpathian Association of Shareholders. The Group of Deputies to the Attorney-General, the Head of the Board, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on the Fight against Organized Crime and Corruption in Offences and Corruption of Yuri Lucenka during his term as Deputy Minister of Science and Technology and Lidium Porecny in the post of Head of the Government of the State Innovation Company. [[WRITER IN POLAND, ISAIAH]] The Panels of Deputies to the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the verification of information on the abuse of office and on the corruption of the leadership of the D R R R S and in t t t t t t h head. [[PANASOVI, VERNIDOUBOV, CORSAKOV]] ALLY ALEXANDROVSKI to the Attorney General for the misconduct of officials in the city of Kharkiv, which has resulted in the destruction of green plantings in the city. Eugene LAPINA to the Attorney General on the elimination of criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal justice in the criminal case concerning Trelyakow. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General for delaying proceedings against the former head of the Trostian State Administration of Berezin on the artificial bankruptcy of the North’s sugarcombinate and the theft of its property. Anatoly OF DOMANSKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the privatization of property by the Zitomir City Head. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General on the misconduct of the employees of Libid service and the Special Unit of the Department of Internal Affairs in the province of Kyrovograd, Titan, regarding the shareholders’ association “Dobrobelicka Rajagrotechnika. ” Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, Head of the President’s Secretariat, on preventing corruption among customs officials. Mr. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney-General on the legality of the discovery of a criminal case against the deputy of the Energodar City Council of Zaporozhye District of Viktor Gricaya by the Prosecutor's Office of the Ordjonikidzew district of Zaporozhye. Mr. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Attorney General, the Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violations that took place during the election of the President of the Onion Shooting Federation. Vladimir NECHIPRECK to the Attorney General on criminal acts and the inaction of prosecutors and police officers in the Zaporozhye region. Alexander KISELOVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration, on the failure to execute the decision of the Master Court of the Ivano-Frankov Region by the officials of the Superventional Reservoir on the payment of the debt on the payroll of the “Builder” labour group. To the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice for the non-payment of compensation to members of the armed forces of the Ternopil region for unutilized goods. Ms. Alexander CARENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Education and Science, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the violation of legislation on the work of the Rector of the Suma National Agrarian University. Vladimir NOVACA to the Attorney General for violating the laws and legitimate interests of the Lisogrinjek territorial community in the allocation of land under construction and lease. LEVEL GLUCHIOVSKI to the Attorney General for the review of the criminal case against Ruslan Antonick and the decision of the Pecher District Court of Kiev on December 28, 2000. Vladimir GOSHOVSKI to the Attorney General for the prevention of incidents of obstruction of the activities of the structural formations of the political party. Sergia BICHKOVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the facts of the deliberate obstruction of the activities of the radio company “Region” of Sinelnikov. Alexander CARENKA to the Attorney-General, the Minister of Education and Science, on compliance with the requirements of education legislation in the preparation of higher education professionals at the teaching and advisory post of the Suma National Agrarian University on the basis of the Kyiv Aviation Technology. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General for the corruption of officials of the Smilian District State Administration in the construction of a gas pipeline for the village of Ternivka in the region of Cherkas region, a formal and bureaucratic approach to the consideration of claims and complaints by residents of the village. Gregory OMELZENKA to the Attorney-General on the crime and seizure of the former President of Ukraine, Kuchma Leonid Danilovich, for the organization of the kidnapping of journalist George Gongadze, who caused his murder; the organization of the attack on the life of the Ukrainian national deputy, Alexander Jelyashkevich, and other crimes, the prosecution of the head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for instigating the crime against George Gongadze, which caused his murder and other state officials and officials who are particularly responsible and who have the signs of crimes established by the Provisional Follow-up Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mr. U.S.A. and Mr. MIKOLI RUDOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Education and Science on the violation of legislation in the educational activities of the International Academy of Personnel Management. Anatolya RACHANSIAH to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, Minister of Internal Affairs for the failure to execute court decisions regarding the reimbursement of funds to pensioners living in the city of Eupatoria. YEUGENA BURNIKA to the Attorney General for refusing to respond to the request and the need for a re-examination. John SCHEDULE to the Attorney General about the delay in the accounts for the sugar beet, which is placed on the Lochwicz sugar plant in the Sumsian and Poltava region. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence for the failure to respond to the parliamentary request for land embezzlement in the village of Gurzuf and the Redstone. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney-General about the combination of the change of owner of the LUT “Lutski meatcombinate” and the delay in paying the wages of his employees. TO THE Attorney General’s office for criminal assault on the property of the Kyiv City Association of Automobiles. VADIM MISSURA to the Attorney General on the arbitrary and accidental destruction of the Dniprov region. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney-General for bringing to justice the responsibility of officials of the Open Shareholders Association “Dniproenergo” of Zaporozhye for failing to execute a court decision. Groups of deputies to the Attorney General on the inaction of the Prosecutor's Office and the State Property Fund and the outright lobbying of the private interests of the so-called Russian “investors” when considering the return of the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant to state ownership. [[DYDENKO, KENJOR]] Valeria CONONOVALJA to the Attorney General on the situation that has arisen with the provision of waste materials for the treatment of renal insufficiency at Zaporez County Hospital. Ms. Alexander KEMENYASA to the head of the Ukraine’s Secretaryate for the violation of legislation in part of the timely response to the Ombudsman’s appeal. Jury CARMAZIN to the Secretary of the RNBO, the Head of the Board, the Attorney General, the Head of the Poltava District Public Administration for the theft in particular of the state property of the Lubensky District Administration of Main Oil Products, the promotion of certain national MPs, their assistants, the Luben Interstate Prosecutor's Office of the Poltava Region and the Prosecutor of Bilokin, other law enforcement agencies to avoid criminal liability, attempts to exercise control over the enterprise. Dear colleagues, I ask that Adam Ivanovich continue to announce his requests, and I must take part in the meeting with the German delegation if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u2	Moreover, respected colleagues asked so many questions that it was difficult for one to read them normally. Eugene LAPINA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on the purpose of restructuring the state-owned enterprise Ukrinteravtoservice. Group of Deputies to the Minister of Economics on the situation in the economy of Ukraine. [[CORSACKOV, COMAR, PANASIAN, AND OTHER]] Mr. Leonida Kadenyuka to the Minister of Justice for an improper response to a request for failure to comply with the ruling of the Darnitsky District Court of Kiev on October 28, 2004. ROBERT to the Ministry of Health for the examination of the facts raised in the case of a citizen named Kustous. Igora ŠURMI to the Ministry of Health regarding the violation of constitutional rights to pay for the work of internal physicians and the neglect of labour legislation regarding the employment of young professionals in the medical establishments of Lvova and the area. Mykoli MELNIKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General for the theft of the property of the garden society and for the unlawful actions of the head of the Council of Gardeners' Associations of the Salnik-1 Massion of the Kalinov district of the Vinnitsky region. Paul MATVIENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to ensure the implementation of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, concerning the payment of aid and payments to the population living in the polluted territories. KLIMPUSHA to the Ministry of Finance regarding the lack of funding for preschool children’s institutions in the Rakhivsky and Tachiv regions of Zakarpatsk. Victor MUSIAKI to the Ministry of Education and Science, the Antimonopoly Committee on the violation by the Ministry of Antimonopoly Legislation and the requirements of the Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at State expense. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the renewal of work on the road through the railway tracks near the village of Balka Vasiliv district of Zaporozhye. GMIR to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the Status of the Disability of the Great Homeland War, residents of the city of Luhansk. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Minister for Family, Youth and Sports, Head of the Suma District State Administration, for the allocation of funds for the repair of the cultural and sports complex in the village of Chupakhovka, the district of the Suma district. Anatolya CLIMINA to the Minister of Justice concerning the systematic non-execution of court rulings concerning the illegal alienation of property of the collective enterprise “In the meantime the city of Kharkiv. John MIHOVIĆA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for the formal attitude of Ministry workers to the attention of the famous woodman Volosin. Mr. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy for State Support for Animal Development in the Odessa Region. Gennady RUDENKA to the Minister of Education and Science for the Delimitation of Geology within the framework of the natural disciplines of the project of the list of fields of knowledge, Bachelor's programmes for the training of professionals in higher education institutions. Alexander PECLUCHENKA to the Ministry of Health on a situation involving the purchase of waste materials for patients with chronic renal insufficiency. Anatolya GREZJEVA to the Ministry of Health on the abolition of Ministerial Order No.81 of 23 February 2005 “On the list of specialities and terms of education for graduates of medical and pharmaceutical universities and medical faculties of universities”. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Minister of Justice, Head of the Supreme Court, on the biased attitude of the administration of the Donetsk Justice Department towards the assessment of the legal activity of the head of the Dimitri state notary office of the city of Krasnoarmijska Dugal. Leonida Vernigori to the Ministry of Health for the violation by members of the Medical and Social Expert Commission No. 1 of the Poltavian Region of the position on medical and social expertise. MICLE JANKOVSKI to the Ministry of Health regarding the selected ambulances to the town of Gorlovka Donetsk. Viacheslav KOVALA to the Minister of Economics, Ministry of Health, for the improper financing of drugs for chronic renal failure. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Administration of the State Border Service, Head of the U.S.S.A. on strengthening the fight against illegal migration and illegal acquisition of illegal citizens of Ukraine. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMOPLAV to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism regarding the duplication, sounding and subtitling of foreign films in Ukrainian. Vladimir Paka to the Ministry of Health regarding the state of health facilities in the city of Rziszów in the Kyiv region. GREGORY CALETICA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the violation of the rights of a veteran of the work of Nicotín when it comes to payroll and the recalculation of pension benefits as a worker of institutions abroad and in international organizations. Valery BORZOVA to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding attempts to resign from the post of Director of the Longshire School of Public Education in the region of the Plain region for political reasons. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Minister for Internal Affairs, Attorney General, on the crime of inaction of members of the Kyiv District Department of Internal Affairs of Odessa, according to a citizen named Neronova. Michael KOSIVA to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism to improve the content of the curriculum of music institutions and eliminate discrimination in the teaching of the game on Ukrainian folk music instruments. Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the granting of benefits to veterans of the town of Lutka. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Head of the Provincial District Administration, prosecutor of the city of Zitomir, city head of Zitomir, prosecutor of the Zitomir district for the destruction of the natural market in the city of Zitomir on the street of Cersa. Mr. KARNAUH to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the violation and consideration of the question of the conformity of the Head of the Supreme Court of the Practice to the position taken. Group of Deputies to the Head of State Treasury on the acceptance of the subsidy from the State budget. [[COMAR, VERNIDOUBOV, CORSACOVE, AND OTHER]] Anatolia LOVINA to the Head of the U.S.A. regarding the criminal activity of an organized group. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Head of the Suma District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the repair of the platoon in the village of Chupakhovka in the district of Ohtyr. Deputies to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for Housing in the Righteous District of Kiev [[SAVIC, KOSINOV, KALINCHUK AND OTHERS]] Mr. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Head of State Service for the irresponsible management of the Head of the General Service for the violation of article 10 of the Constitution and the language legislation of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Head of the Court of Auditors and the representative of the Supreme Council of the Court of Auditors. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Head of the Kiev State Administration on the situation that arose in the Biloczerk Road Construction Office. Mr. Vladimir LEVCUNA to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General’s Office, the Qualifying Commission of Judges of Kiev for Violations of the Judge of the Pecher District Court of Ivanenko for Legal Affairs. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Head of the Cherka District State Administration for violations of the distribution of rations in the village of Tubilka. MICHELLA TO THE Head of the State Tax Administration for the violation of tax legislation in the activities of the International Staff Management Academy. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Head of State Tax Administration for providing information on tax payers in the field of gaming. Vladimir JENKA to the Head of the Cherkas Observatories for violation of the rights of residents of the house on the street of Lenin, Cherkasa, in connection with the reconstruction of apartments under the shop. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the procurator of the Kyiv region, Head of the Kyiv District Public Administration on issues related to the activities of the Charity Foundation “The Perspective” and violations of the rights of teachers of the Brovarsky Secondary School of Public Education No. 7. BICHKOWA to the State Committee on the State Material Reserve for Official Results of the Automobile Tyre Competition from the State Material Reserve. Vladimir LEVCUN to the Qualifying Commission of Judges of the Kyiv Court of Appeal for the verification of the legality of the actions of the Justice of the Fastew District Court. MICHAYLA ACCOMMODATED with the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, on the inadmissibility of the intervention of the Kyiv City Public Administration in the work of the Ukrainian Children's Hospital Okhmatdit, Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Thus, 174 requests were received by the national deputies. The factions. The Communist faction – 38, “Regions of Ukraine” – 23, People's Party – 8, “Our Ukraine” – 9, Block of Timoshenko – 14, Socialist Party – 15, Ukrainian People's Party – 5, Social-Democratic Party – 22, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 2, “Trust of the People” – 6, political party “Reforms and Orders” – 4, “One Ukraine” – 3, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 2, People's Movement of Ukraine – 11, non-fractional – 12. [[united]] Dear colleagues, exactly 45 minutes of the Rules, we have spent only on parliamentary inquiries. Then if there's no objection, let's do it this way. There will be representatives of factions, MPs who have applied, but at the expense of the break. Please, Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Volodymyr the Master.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u3	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. On behalf of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and all the friendly factions, I join in congratulating all the employees of the communication system and the media on their professional day and wishing success in developing the information system on the intellectualization of our society. We've got an honest election ahead of us. And the role of the media here is great both as a fourth authority and as a high social service. Dear citizens, today the world celebrates the Universal Day of Reconciliation. Such advanced highly developed countries as the United States, Germany, Spain, Italy, France, Finland, and in the recent period of Lithuania have shown examples of domestic reconciliation, the consolidation of national capacities and resources. The third millennium, adopted by the United Nations, is based on the pillars of reconciliation, solidarity, integration against the terrible threat of totalitarian globalism. For Ukraine, as a transit country of reconciliation, it is a special long-term historical and political imperative. The ideologies and strategies of national and national solidarity are our national ideology, the ideology of totalitarianism, liberalism, integral conservative nationalism are out of date and are out of history because they can in today's circumstances lead to the loss of national development resources. And finally, under this slogan, we can't ignore the need for social solidarity, especially with a village that is rightly said to be dying in trouble. Today, the gasification of the village, despite all the decisions of the Supreme Council, is not being resolved, 450 million investments are not being made. Who's responsible for the gas? Let the Minister of Energy come and explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u4	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Victor Verethennikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u5	Statement by the MP of the People's Party. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! The tremendous energy efficiency of the domestic economy, which now accounts for 42 percent of the total cost of production, is 2.5 times higher than that of the developed countries of the world. And the apriors make domestic production uncompetitive. In view of the prospect of joining the WTO, this problem has become a major challenge to the state’s economy and its national security. Understanding the complexity of the task and their responsibility to the electorate, the national deputies of the Lithuanian People's Block initiated a round table on November 10, 2005, where managers of Ukraine's largest chemical, metallurgical industries, along with national deputies, scientists, leading experts, discussed minimizing the consequences of the inevitable rise in energy prices. Taking into account Russian gas, which comes in the form of transit fees, the current needs of the domestic economy are guaranteed by 65 percent. So the economy of 35 percent of energy carriers allows us to become an independent state. However, this will only be possible if the economy is restructured structurally, with the aim of introducing energy-saving technologies. So the time before we move to world prices should be used for this reconstruction. The round table believes that solving this problem should be a priority of state policy, no less a national task than Ukraine’s accession to the WTO. Ukraine on commission. The government, on behalf of the President by 15 November, would have to develop a draft energy strategy for Ukraine by 2030. The participants at the round table believe that we should introduce an energy-efficient model for Ukraine's economy under a separate national programme. And with the use of the active stimulating levers of the so-called whipping system. Batog would be a license for energy consumption with the appropriate system of sanctions for normative costs. The stimulus will also be the gradual rise in energy prices in the internal market. As for spices, the State must go to tax the part of the profits that the entities use to invest in the tax regime. The approaches taken are outlined in an open letter to the leaders of the State, and some of the proposals put forward require legislative regulation. National MPs, members of the National Party faction take responsibility for preparing this package of bills. The transition to an energy-efficient model for the development of the national economy needs coordination. That's why we're taking the initiative in carrying out such a package of drafts in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u6	Please, Victor Weretennikov, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, will be followed by Vladimir Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u7	Victor Weretennikov, PPU faction. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the faction, I welcome all television and media professionals, the good and the bad. The faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs is concerned about the constant delay in the adoption of an important law on the only social contribution. The issue of lowering the tax burden on the pay - for - work fund is of concern to both employers and employees today. As we know, the president of Ukraine has already declared a 20 - percent reduction in social security rates against the 37 - dollar wage fund. Today, it is clear that it is only by adopting this law that is important to the country to correct the administration of social congregations. I, by the way, am one of the authors of this law, so I can confirm that the main task is to remove its load from the pay and shadow fund. Today, it is important to work with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which has also started working in this direction by forming a working group with the board of entrepreneurs. But this problem can only be solved at the legislative level, that is, in Parliament. In view of this, the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs believes that it is necessary to move from a declaration to concrete steps and insists on a first-hand review in the Supreme Council of the bill on the only social contribution. The bill was developed by the Committee on Financial and Banking, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and by the Pension Fund of Ukraine. Today we need to rebuild this work and adopt the bill. Recognizing the crucial importance of the issue, I would like to point out that the adoption of the law will reduce the burden on the Pay Fund, stimulate the increase in wages and the full legalization of wages. By the way, the law had to be adopted earlier in order to take its action into account in the following year, 2006. Costs to compensate for the loss of the Pension Fund, and today, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, deficits amount to about 21 billion dollars, will be involved by expanding the base of deductions and increasing the real size of wages. The adoption of the proposed project will also have a major impact on people’s material security and their ability to pay. That is why the faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs insists on the draft bill on the only social contribution that is under discussion in the Supreme Council and calls on all deputies to support this important law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u8	Vladimir Stretović, National Union of “Our Ukraine”. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u9	Statement by the faction of the Party “National Union of Our Ukraine” on the introduction to the World Trade Organization. The deputy faction “Our Ukraine” is strongly protesting efforts to impose a disgraceful scenario of Ukraine’s isolation from the world’s integration processes. Such attempts pose a threat to the national security of the state, for they have had a decisive impact on the economic, political, and social interests of our country for the next few decades. Today, 148 countries have become members of the World Organization, another 30 have become observers. This is 95 percent of the world’s trade and two thirds of the world’s markets. And only 35 countries in the world, with economic progress slowed down, have no immediate prospect of joining the leading state club. We express our firm disagreement with the desire of individual factions to throw Ukraine out of the way of a civilized connection with the rest of the world. We should not lose more than eight billion dollars of our own circulation each year, nor should we underestimate the possibility of an additional GDP increase of almost two percent. In addition, the introduction to the World Trade Organization will allow an increase of $1 billion per year in domestic exports for the cancellation of unwarranted benefits and an additional 2.3 billion per year in the Ukrainian budget. We must make every effort to stop the struggle of politicians against our own people. Because it's not about narrow political issues, it's about trying to reverse the European choice of Ukraine, and then losing the chance to improve the lives of citizens. Only the foolish one comes out of the logic: the worse the better. By demonstrating political irresponsibility and shortsightedness, individual political forces tried to strike the future of Ukrainian society, its desire to live in a large European family, and thus its prosperity and stability. Despite all that, the faction “Our Ukraine” is convinced that the issue of Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization will be finally resolved in the near future. The lack of understanding in Parliament raises serious concerns from a number of other points of view, since there are important events ahead of time. We have to help the government form an acceptable development budget by removing any signs of populism from it. We must abide by the commitments of the President of Ukraine that he has made to the Ukrainian community. The faction is convinced that today in Parliament there is potential for constructive cooperation between different political forces, and we all need to make friends, allies and partners, not to seek enemies. In Ukraine there are fairly healthy political forces capable of leading the nation in a European direction, and they are united around the national president Victor Yushchenk. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u10	Anatoly Moroz, Lithuanian National Block, behind him is John Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u11	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region, faction group of the Volodymyr Lithuanian People's Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The faction group of the Bloc Volodymyr Lithuania wants to draw the attention of our fellow MPs and the government to the fact that there is a very tense situation in the social protection units today, a situation of public importance can be said, because it is growing and gaining weight after the problem that we have today in the state, a lack of citizens' savings. Here's the thing. Ukraine's "On the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees of Their Social Protection" Act provides for the payment of one-time financial assistance to war veterans by May 5 in the size of three minimum pensions - this is about 352 bracelets today. [[Articles 12-15 of the Act]] But every year, Ukraine's State Budget Act, which limits the payment of one-off aid to 50 dollars, is much less than the "On the Status of War Veterans" Act of Ukraine. On the one hand, Ukraine's State Budget Act alone defines expenditure for the general public needs, size and purpose of directing these expenditure. [[Part Two of Article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] In addition, the definition of such volumes should take into account the requirements of a fair and impartial distribution of social wealth among citizens, i.e. all social needs that entail adequate expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine, must be met by the State's financial capacity. [[Article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] But today we have examples, let's say, in Tokmak and the Tokmatic region, if the state has to pay for this year, somewhere to allocate $2.2 million, there's only 255,000 allocated; and in Tokmak, there's a need for 4.4 million, there's only 463,000 allocated. On the other hand, war veterans are suing for the administration of work and social protection of the population for the collection of one-off financial assistance, this is article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Veterans. Based on its requirements and its reference to article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prevents the adoption of new laws or changes to existing laws from reducing the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. The Court takes decisions in favour of veteran citizens and the Social Protection Service knows what to do in this situation. And that's why there are two ways to solve the problem. First. The government is currently working on the adoption of the budget. So the budget needs to be set up with adequate funding to solve this problem. Otherwise, veterans will appeal to the state, to the Cabinet of Ministers and, of course, let the Cabinet of Ministers be responsible for these actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u12	John Boki, the Socialist Party, behind him is Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u13	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear Ukrainians! Dear children of war! Dear colleagues! As has been known since the last meeting of the budget committee, the Cabinet of Ministers of Yehanurova refused to finance the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Children of War the following year. Worse yet, the government wants to force the Supreme Council to repeal this Law. The reason is one: there is no money. This lie has been on Ukraine for over a decade and a half. The State has stolen savings from the people, Kuchma with Pinzenic and Teryohinim with the help of their decree on trusts they have once again deceived the people, and money is said to be gone. Presidents, prime ministers, ministers of finance are changing, and half the economy was in the shadows and now in the shadows. On behalf of the faction of socialists, on behalf of the All-U.S. Children's Organization of War, led by our leader Alexander Moroz, I declare that we will never allow ourselves to be abused by children of war. They've had their childhood stolen, many of the wars have taken their parents away, they've worked all their lives for pennies, and we can't even give a pittance to what the law guarantees? Be ashamed to complain that this law should be repealed, Masters Yehanurov and Pinzenik. It has to be done! And it is your duty to find money, to shake it off from the shadows, and to give it to those people whose hands you have grown up, whose hard work it is to get an education that has given you a career. Regret their sick hearts, their weak hands, their hungry stomachs, their old age and the last days of the sun or years, not to be bullied by a generation that is blossoming and falling away but that is worthy of true human respect. Mr. Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich! I thought life taught you a lot after everything that Ukraine experienced in the bush years, but you and Julia Timoshenko developed a budget that spit on the children of war. Now you spit in their soul along with Yuri Yehanur. Be reasonable, arouse your conscience, and repent of a generation of war children, including your parents. We, the Socialists, call upon all factions that voted in favour of this War Children's Protection Act not to vote in favour of the State Budget 2006 if it does not provide funds for the implementation of this humane and holy Law. We urge President Yushchenk of Ukraine if he is truly national, honest and honest to say that he guarantees the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Children of War. It is wise to keep quiet. We need to act wisely. If that does not happen, children of war will establish their Maidan and will have the authority to respect themselves, to respect the law, to respect human beings in man, to respect Ukraine, which is a State of man and man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u14	Alexander Stoyan, “Ukraine” faction. Behind him is Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u15	A statement by the faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. It's a year after the presidential election. On November 22, we will witness a new branch in the field. We think that the participants of Maidan will appreciate the achievements of the orange government in the social protection of citizens. He will report to Maidan and Minister of Internal Affairs, Mr. Lucenko, who has been so involved in politics that he has not yet understood his position and what he is doing. What is more, Mr. Lucenko’s mouth is constantly filled with lies about people whose guilt has not been proved by any court. And here's his recent statement that the parties that make up the election lists form factions for investigative isolations in the future Parliament. Who allowed him to cast a shadow in advance on the national MPs, including his colleagues in the Socialist Party of Ukraine? Perhaps Mr. Lucenko thought of himself because he was going to go to Parliament on the list of socialists and had already prepared a warm place for himself at the hospital. Dear fellow national deputies, we were witnesses to you when Mr. Lucenko here, from this rostrum, claimed that if the forged Boris Kolesnikov case was proved, he would apologize publicly and the guilty would be punished. Mr. Lucenka, we're waiting for you in this rostrum. It's time to apologize to the citizens of Ukraine. The faction of Ukraine according to the memorandum signed by our leader Viktor Janukovic and the President requires a political assessment of Mr. Lucenk's actions. We're asking the President to resign immediately until it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u16	Your last name, Mr. Rudzkowski, wasn't called. Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Behind him is Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u17	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In the background of the country's economics, the rising inflation rate, the low crisis, the price vachanization of the decision of the authorities about the material recognition of their merits, almost two tens of thousands of dollars a month, is cynical. Moreover, these merits are, to say the least, questionable. Especially considering the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the release of the heads of the district administrations. The high wages of ministers are shown in comparison to the incomes of the population according to the official figures of the State. The average monthly salary of regular workers employed in the industry is within thousands of dollars. The increase in the salaries of high-ranking officials is particularly cynical when it comes to the level of the minimum wage set in Ukraine, 332 dollars for Ukrainian citizens and about 20,000 dollars for ministers. As for the minimum pension, in December 2006, it was promised to raise up to 400 dollars. This is a worthy response to the authority of the field, this is the price of the slogan “Yes” from a transparent, honest, and open, and democratic power, as we call it. We hope that on November 22nd, the chief oranges will not forget to include in the report and the question of the frenzied growth of their own well-being. A separate manifestation of the openness of authority is the availability of acts that are accepted. Kabminu's famous ruling, which defines the Prime Minister's salary as a percentage of the salaries of other officials, is a secret behind seven castles. The faction had to ask the MPs to understand its contents. At present, the situation of high wages and openness of power raises the problem of legislative uncertainty regarding the institutional development of the state. We are convinced that it is the absence of a basic law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that enables the authorities to engage in various manipulations. We state that further delay in consideration is unacceptable, considering the issue in Parliament. Moreover, since January 1st, changes to the Constitution have entered into force. The faction of SDPU(o) requires the closure of draft law 0893. In addition, Parliament must adopt Decree 8473 recommending the suspension of documents that destabilized the situation of wages and then regulate the issue of pay for ministers. The relevant Social Democrat bill has been passed, and it foresees that the border ministers' structures cannot be more than 10 per cent of the minimum wage set in Ukraine. We think that the solution is the only possible in a situation that has arisen because the government's calls to limit its own appetites remain unheard of. We urge the Supreme Council to support our bills. We'll help the authorities clean up a little bit. Sadly, it is not possible for her to take such a step.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u18	Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian People's Party. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u19	Dear voters! Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian People's Party. The Ukrainian People's Party, as a national patriotic force, has taken the words “Ukrainen and People's” not as salogans for the election boards, but to confirm its main task, to defend the interests of the Ukrainian people. We state that the position of most of the MPs represented in this room, during the vote, on 3 November of this year on the issue of the establishment of the ceiling of pension insurance for government officials was based on the result of the anti-Ukraine vote and the anti-Ukrainian vote. How can 294 deputies of the four hundred present then in the hall explain to their electorate, first of all the disadvantaged and hardworking pensioners, who for all have an average pension of 384 dollars, and for themselves have a special retirement procedure that allows the pensioner to receive a pension of up to a few tens of thousands of dollars. If you are no longer concerned about the interests of your constituents, whom some of you so like to cover, at least look into the eyes of your family, who have worked for 30 or 40 years, who have retired almost 100 times less than you anticipated. The UNP has acted and is opposed to the level playing field in pension insurance. But in conditions where we have not raised the subsistence minimum for most citizens to an acceptable one in a civilized world, such a vote and such a position is immoral. And there's nothing here to hide from the Constitutional Court's decision. Let's see how the faction then voted, the faction of communists -- 56 MPs, only one voted against the upper limit, the faction of Social Democrats (o) -- 20 deputies, none voted in favour of the limitation of the pension of state officials, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko-37 deputies, only one voted in favour of the establishment of the upper limit of pension insurance, the faction of “One Ukraine” -- 13 deputies, not one voted in favour of the establishment of the border, the faction of “Forward, Ukraine” -- 45 deputies, only one voted in favour of the establishment of the border, the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine, only three in favour! Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Ukrainian People's Party is that we don't just call ourselves parliamentarians, we're called MPs. The request not to engage in populism and to reduce some owners of oil refineries’ wages but to vote in favour of the pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, don't be alarmed, the election campaign is officially starting on November 26th. Vladimir Yavorowski, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Prepare Alexander Tkalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, our constituents, allow me, on behalf of my faction and the former Yustenka Block, “Our Ukraine”, to truly welcome our fellow journalists with their beautiful holiday and once again to note that perhaps the only real victory we have today is freedom of speech. And, for God's sake, this victory will be stable. The other one. Everything today is, of course, important: both the electoral auctions, and the electoral lamentation, and the sale of political insolvents, and the creation of temporary political societies with limited responsibility, and the passions around the SOT, because yesterday the lamentation in the hall reminded me of how once the radio station “Freedom” was suppressed, exactly the same. Everything's important. And the impression is that Ukraine is with you and our people living mainly in elections, and between the elections it is preparing for the next elections. And it feels so much like we're not living at all, and we're never living. As a result, allowing the background of what has been said today from this rostrum to touch things perhaps too earthly but very principled. What do I mean? I would like to emphasize today, and let this sound like my request to the government, about two of our Ukrainian shrines: the first is the border that is here on the hills near the Eleventh Century High. Whatever it was, there was a monastery, there was a spiritual capital of Cossacks, and there was a cemetery of Cossacks, and there was Taras Shevchenko. But literally at the beginning of the last century, it was privatized by corporate bonds. True, they investigate and say that everyone who lived there died very quickly. Because the house that was built there is built on Cossack bones. To this day, there are 140 acres [140 ha] of amazing Transnistrian coastal lands, where this government center is located. Try it, MPs, give your mandate and go there, and your mandate will be thrown through the gate. Who does it belong to today? I think we need to do everything: we need a state residence, whatever it is, but it needs two or three hectares, not more than 140 hectares. Taras Shevchenkov had a dream in exile about a bell well from which he drank water. Now, to go through it, it is written, “It does not pass: it is dangerous for life!” It was written for Yanukovich. I'm talking to the government. As long as he's temporary, he can figure it out. Take off all these bans, please open the reserve. And the same is true of Trachtemirov, an amazing island of Cossack glory. If he belongs to Bakaya, take him away while Bakaya's gone. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u22	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, this reserve no longer belongs to the government, the government has already given it away. Alexander Tkachenko, People’s Movement Get ready for the French Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u23	Alexander Tkachenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine A statement by the faction of the National Movement of Ukraine on the need to improve the policy and restructuring of the carbon economy and to reduce the negative effects of accelerated mine closure on the geological and environmental environment of the Donetsk region. Coal production in the Donetsk basin has been under way for over 200 years. Hundreds of capital mines and mine shafts are built here. The total amount of resources removed was 13 billion cubic metres, with the area occupied by the mining and mining complex being about 8 percent of the region. The steady complexity of the current coal industry is compounded by an increase in the cost of coal production by almost 18 percent in the past year and an unbalanced increase of 13 million tons in its imports over exports. And this is because the production capacity of the country's mines is only 60 percent active. At a time when complex measures are being taken to reduce the cost of production and import of coal as a destructive factor for the industry. An analysis of the results of the first phase of the closure of the Donbas mines showed that the most dangerous and irreversible in this process is the ecological geologic factor associated with the regional aberrational rise in groundwater levels and the fundamental changes in the living conditions of the population. The extraction of mines from the operation is accompanied by poor approaches to their disposal and ecotechnical recovery. This usually occurs through flooding, causing significant changes in natural conditions. The consequences of such actions are virtually unforeseeable. There are already evidences of submerged technological origins, a significant sediment of the underground surface of the earth, and as a result of the deterioration of the engineering and geological conditions of the operation of residential and industrial buildings, underground communications, etc. A further process of systemless sinking of mines under an accepted restructuring scheme can lead to emergencies, anomalous environmental pollution, and so forth. The current nature of the issue of energy security requires prior stabilization, the development of new approaches in the carbon economy. The National Movement of Ukraine believes that the National Coal Programme should be substantially developed in part of the development of eco-geological forecasting systems and the management of the technical state of decommissioned mines, the principle of new approaches to sectoral profitability indicators. The introduction of scientific approaches to solving the problem will provide an opportunity to improve the socio-economic situation in Donbassa, to improve the safety of the operation of the mine and to enable effective environmental-stabilising measures to improve the living conditions of the mining population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u24	Please, Igor Francesch, “Trust in the People”. Boris Oilynik is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u25	Statement by the members of the People's Trust Group on the introduction of compulsory health insurance. Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! The “Trust of the People” group, which consists of pragmatic and inequitable people, mostly elected in majority districts, where the health situation is better seen than in Kiev, conveys to the Government, in our view, the most socially important and medically essential draft Ukrainian Law on Compulsory State Social Insurance. We cannot see the lack of a clear strategy for reforming the old health budget system. The whole world lives without exception under the insurance system. Differences in the form of this insurance: private, semi-public or 100 per cent public. Since 2001, Parliament has been considering bills to enact a basic law. Our voters are tired of hearing that health care will soon improve its services and have to pay in health care institutions or give up their services. And the further away from Kiev, the worse the situation is. There are health facilities where, without their drugs, overcrowding materials are simply not taken. In the Government's health programme, the first item is the adoption of the law. Dear people's deputies, we have little time, and, more precisely, there is no time to stop the destruction of budgetary health. All medical personnel support the Act on Compulsory State Health Insurance. The Act will be able to grant equal rights to all Ukrainians, regardless of their income, to the place where they live, to have quality medical treatment, and to get paid for their work. Our group calls on the Government to proceed with a legislative initiative to Parliament on this issue, to all parliamentary groups and factions to participate in the discussion of the law and to support the vote. Respectable voters! We assure you that the work of the People's Trust Group will continue to protect the rights of citizens in the field of health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u26	Boris Olinick from the non-faction. Next Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u27	Thank you. I'm not going to break my hands to pay, to thank God, to honorary colleagues, to respond in a timely manner to a completely illogical, incorrect increase in the MP's assets. And you have to say they're on time. Surely, someone remembered the ginseng that had been made in the face of the poverty of the population, raising the wages of the party, which was not the last part of the state’s collapse. Perhaps some have also thought of leading Ukraine to a year - old pen. I believe that better preserved bracelets will indeed be directed towards the implementation of the Law on the Social Protection of the Children of War, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and signed by the President on 18 November 2004. Article 4 foresees that the Cabinet of Ministers develops and includes relevant provisions for this category of citizens and controls their implementation. The final position is that the law takes effect as of January 1, 2006. Thus the government, both the former and the present one, stubbornly does not even give the budget any indication that the law is being fulfilled. Cannot initialise John Sidorovich made this quite clear. I'm just going to remind you that the children of war are those who, on September 2, 45, the time of the end of World War II, were under 18 years old. Today, the youngest of them is over 60, and the oldest of them is far over 70. So let's either do the law signed and voted by us, signed by the President, or continue to violate basic service discipline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u28	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u29	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine claims that today’s authorities have intensified their efforts against the Ukrainian people. The Ministry of Culture is at war with theatres and cinemas, destroying the tourism sector. The Ministry of Health is with children’s medical institutions. But worst of all, the authorities declared war on the spirituality of the Ukrainian people. The great and real tragedy of the nation is being fulfilled purposefully. The citizens of Ukraine, who have been left without enough pay, pensions, medicine, education, today or any future, are trying to leave them with their own consciences, dignity and the last refuge of the Orthodox faith. Today’s authority treats believers in the Canonical UCP as enemies who need to be beaten, broken their hands that are least expelled from the temple. In their time, only the Fascists and the UN did so. That was the real war on the Wall during the Great War of Homeland, and so continues the religious war on Volina today. This is how small episodes produce a great tragedy — a ruin in Ukraine, its historical nonexistence, colonial slavery. For two months now, near the Supreme Council in a tent in all the winds, the UPC priest from the Ternopol region, Father Oleg Sirko, is in the cold. With their pilgrims, who were taken into the temple a few months ago. They are with naive posters to the President for the peace he promised the church in the pre-election state. Today, the pilgrims have come to realize that this peace can only be if all their temples are taken to the last and they are evicted from the reservation. Day after day, no president, no local authorities, no courts, no prosecutors can and cannot solve the issue, no temple can return. And these facts are not alone. This is similar in the village of Kalinenskeh Hersson. The Supreme Court returned the temple to the community, and the local authorities refused to comply with the court’s decision. The same situation in Ostroza, but in every area, there is a sharp one. Power initiates conflict. She's not confused by broken hands, concussions, blood. Again the police's inaction, the lack of response from the prosecution, the central authorities of the state. The power of nationalists and socialists is silent. It was already near Kuchma and his son Yushchenko continued his father’s work. Today, all Orthodox people are under stress. In times of independence, ruling regimes change decorations, rhetoric, but the war against Orthodoxy continues. Today’s authorities need to remember ancient wisdom — one who sows the wind reaps the storm of national anger. The authorities should bear in mind that war against their people ends with the victory of the nation, and anti - national authorities always go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u30	Yeah, the speech's over. Dear colleagues, I remind you once again, the lines are given then, the k5ols are called the name. We have another procedure as dissatisfaction with answers to requests. Yes, the documents are properly drawn up. Vladimir Puzakov, please. To prepare for Rachansky, I point out that there is no end to the paperwork. Come to me, I'll show you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u31	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština For all citizens of Ukraine who are able to think soberly, it has long been evident that both the orange field and the generous promises of the president and his team have proved to be a great hoax. The demagogic water continues to pour and comes out in their own way that the people are prosperous, and the country is flourishing, but it has become obvious that banditry is flourishing, corruption is rampant, privatization is continuing to rob what is left somehow. All of this is done by those bandits who, according to the promise of Yashchenka, should be in prison, but they are flourishing, “glorifyingly lording” by creating companies with angelic names, robbing people and the country. [[in quotes]] I was approached by a working group of Dobromecksky Rajagrotechnics who asked me to help bring back the cynical and illegally looted agricultural technology, including the new John Dire combines. This crime was committed by the employees of Libid Servis with the support of a special unit in the Navy, in the Titan area. Stolen, even personal belongings of mechanics. The labour force of the company approached the district prosecutor’s office with an appropriate claim of a crime. The prosecutor’s office, in violation of the time limit for processing criminal claims, does not objectively carry out the examination of the facts described, is delaying the proceedings. The solution is put off for unknown reasons and for unknown reasons. In a word, it's about "Libyd-servicing". I have been asked from this fact by the MPs, to the Attorney General's Office, who, as always, conducts a fact-check on a call to the district attorney's office, and sends a write-off without any investigation, and by which time will be sent similar receipts without interference in the investigation of the facts. Nobody needs an answer on the phone. The state of the Attorney General is no longer able to investigate the complaint on his own. The new Attorney General of Ukraine wanted to change the practice of providing answers to statements, both by national deputies and by Ukrainian citizens. The working group of the Dobrovetske rajagrotechnics is awaiting a just decision. And my statement, please, is to list as a re-deputy request to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u32	Anatoly Rahansky is also dissatisfied with the answer and followed by Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u33	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Eupatoria constituency Dear Adam Ivanovich, a colleague, let me congratulate the radio, television, and their professional festival. Colleagues, in the city of Eupatoria, for the past 25 years, in children's sanatoriums every summer have been working day camps for children of the city's workers, working in a year and a half, healing children from all regions of the state. In view of the fact that these children from underprivileged families, the cost of their recovery was partly used by the Social Insurance Fund. Since April of this year, at the request of the six business unions of the city, I have appealed to the head of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions and the President of Ukraine on the partial financing of these day-care camps in children's sanatoriums, with their consent in the city of Eupatoria and the resort cities of Crimea. This is in line with article 48 of the Ukrainian Act “On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance”. Sadly, about a dozen of my appeals were not considered for essentially six months. And only by the end of August of this year, the Social Insurance Foundation, the head of the Pockets Authority and the executive director of the fund, Mishchenko began to study the issues of essentially my appeals and queries after the end of the healing season. But I believe that this consideration has taken place to justify its inaction and to avoid liability. And this is happening in the state at a time when the Ukrainian Ministry of Youth and Sports identified as one of the priorities: the protection of children's rights and the creation of an effective system of overcoming childlessness and carelessness. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, asking to consider bringing the employees of the Social Insurance Fund to justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u34	Thank you. But we can't intervene in court, we can't bring ourselves to be held accountable. Anyway, that's an order. Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u35	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] For six months I have been trying to obtain official information about the owner of the land near the city of Jaremche Ivano-Frankow district and the house on which it is being built. Both are attributed to the President of Ukraine. The head of the Ivano-Frankow government, Tkac told reporters, quote: “He bought a part in Tatar Yushchenko two years ago from the owner and is now building a simple house, and also on his own project.” Strangely, Mr. Tjak in the official response to the request replied that the information was not his own, but that of the village council. By the way, this answer was about a month and a half, not 15 days, as it's supposed to be legal. And as an opposition, the Ex-Deputy Tuck fought angrily with the past power. When he found himself in the governor’s seat, he became like the former authorities. Yet, how can society react when a picture of a simple multistory hut owned by the president appears on newspapers and television screens from time to time? And the President is silent, the officials are silent, everyone is silent. Only the titarian village head, for which this humble house is built, made some clarification. I quote: “Actually, in August 2003, in the hall of Žinec, land was sold to the inhabitants of Kiev, who are currently building residential buildings according to building permits and relevant documents.” So the resident has everything: both permits, and money, and the desire to build -- not just a last name. At the same time, it is reported that these are the lands that are in use of the Carpathian National Park. On the other hand, I would like to inform the President and the pleasure: the village head noted that there was no land purchased by the President of Ukraine in the village of Tatar. Mr. President, take this opportunity to confirm your non-participation with the land and with the modest food that is on it and is being built. Especially before the wedding, since if you think of an interview with the weaver, it builds on your project as a personal one. There are no two truths. Who is she for, according to the governor in his interview, or the country head with her mythical resident in Kiev? In addition, Derzkom reported, quote: “In order for a national MP to collect information on the acquisition of property by a citizen of Yushchenk in the framework of legislation, you need his consent.” So, so that the mandatory attribute of every presidential television channel "uplifted clean hands" has a chance for the future, I ask the President: "May I ask you to explain who owns the area, at what cost, and how much money did they buy it for?" Who changed the river’s 50 - foot [50 m] course and wanted to fatten the territory of the Carpathian National Reserve? A week from now, Mr. President, you'll be back on Maidan with your report. And I want you to stand in with a proudly raised head, clean thoughts and clean hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u36	The performances are over, dear fellows! We've got it. Now, wait till we get to the procedure. We have another issue that is not settled on the Conciliation Council. The head of the National Security Defence Committee asked if we could provide information on our delegation's presence in Iraq. Since you and I have made a few decisions on this matter, please, Kruczkov Georgi Korniyovich, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! On November 7-8, a delegation led by the Secretary of Defense visited the Republic of Iraq. There were two goals. First, consider the preparations for the withdrawal of our military personnel from Iraq. And secondly, to discuss with the authorities of this country the issue of participating in the postwar reconstruction of Iraq. In Al-Cut, members of the delegation had meaningful talks, meetings with the command, a special composition of the 81st tactical group. In all, there are now 872, also with the command of the multinational forces of the “Centre-South” Group. Meetings and talks took place with the Prime Minister of Iraq, the defence ministers, foreign affairs, the governor of the province of Vasilit and also with the command of the multinational forces in Iraq by John Casey and the commander of the NATO training mission. It's already in Iraq. The situation in Iraq as a whole remains complex. In Baghdad, I would say, closer to the front, more or less safe in the so-called "green zone". Explosions happen, and people die almost every day. On December 15, parliamentary elections will take place, which clearly complicates the situation. The Iraqi government has asked the UN Security Council to continue for a year the coalition forces, and the Security Council has taken such a decision. But according to a decree issued by the President of Ukraine following the address of the Supreme Council, we will withdraw our troops by the end of the year. We've learned that preparations for Iraq's exit are organized, as planned, all the details, including security issues, have been worked out. Our deployment will begin on December 20th, and on December 30th, the last group of our peacekeepers will arrive at Borispol Airport. The delivery of military equipment and property will begin early, first to Kuwait and then to the sea. Part of the property and technology are being left behind by Iraqi authorities. To do this, in our view, is appropriate, it is “good” that we do not need. There is a government to resolve this issue. The cost of withdrawing our contingent from Iraq is borne by the Americans. The activities of our military at all levels, both in the province and in the leadership of Iraq and in the command of multinational forces, were highly valued. General Rashid in the province of Vasit said in the presence of the governor: “We view Ukrainian peacekeepers as true friends.” And he added: “Unlike the representatives of some other countries.” In March, when we were, the governor called those countries, he called the United States. It is important that our peacekeepers are the only members of the multinational force, not only to ensure relative stability in the province of Vasit and to provide enormous humanitarian and other assistance, but also to prepare Iraqi military border guards, law enforcement officers, to perform the functions that our peacekeepers have performed so far. So one of the uncomplicated dramatic aspects of our country's history will be overturned, and Parliament's decision has played a role. Now it is up to our government to what extent Ukraine will participate in the postwar reconstruction and further development of Iraq. The possibilities and fields of activity are enormous for us there. Iraq is remembered and highly valued for the work of Soviet experts in the prewar years, of which about 70 percent were Ukrainians. During our meeting with the governor of the province of Vasit, we were told: “We ask the Ukrainians to get to work now so that your niche is not occupied by others. After a previous visit by the Ukrainian delegation to Iraq, it was March 30-31, in our Ministry of Industrial Policy, other departments developed specific open proposals for participation in the reconstruction of Iraq. Yet, there were no real developments. This is partly explained by the objective reasons, the situation in the country itself, changes in government. This is why Prime Minister Irak Jafari did not visit Ukraine. The work of experts there is associated with a huge risk to life. But frankly, we have not shown persistence and activity on our part. The government does not have a person with authority to coordinate and direct work in this very important direction. And without that, there will be no action. I personally cannot understand why, at this very responsible stage, when the withdrawal of our troops is to take place, the head of the Ukrainian diplomatic mission has been transferred to another state and in Iraq represents our country, not an ambassador, but a temporary one? The government needs to change the way we deal with the problems of our cooperation and Iraq. The Iraqi side is asking to leave a group of experts in Iraq up to 50 people — military, border guards, law enforcement officers — as advisers to assist in the preparation of appropriate structures. Organize training of military, civilian experts for Iraq at educational institutions in Ukraine and Iraq. We need to reconcile specific plans for cooperation in the military, economic, social, humanitarian spheres that could be signed during a visit by the head of the Iraqi government after its formation as a result of the subsequent elections. All of this is in the interests of Ukraine, and we must be more pivotal and firm in the realization and promotion of our interests. And one more thing. Our embassy in Baghdad is operating under frontal conditions. Alfa, for example, has made more than 350 trips since the beginning of the year to perform tasks in the front environment. My colleague Resta and I have introduced a draft law that we propose to grant the Embassy's colleagues in the Republic of Iraq and the structures added to it that work there during the war in this country, as part of the fighting. That would be fair, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, everyone who wanted to say it instead of 45 minutes an hour, we spent 45 minutes doing it. Sign the procedure for three minutes. What's left? Yes, please, Babourin. After him, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u39	I'd like to give Peter Stepanovich Cibenka a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u40	Please, Dibank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u41	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Yesterday, November 15, 2005, it happened. There was another act of betrayal of Ukraine's national interests. The “Sam’s grandfather ” was voted in the agreement by a number of Soviet laws. With the insistence of a better application, our national patriots, and more specifically the national traitors, betrayed the national interests of the people of Ukraine, destroying the country's economy. Once again, I would like to stress on behalf of the faction that we are not helpers to traitors. And one more thing. Some media were happy to report that the Head of the Supreme Council had conducted a faction of Communists while voting on one of these laws. That's what I'm trying to say. First of all, if you've been wrapped around someone's finger, it's Ukraine and its people. It's different. This indicates that the Communists do not follow the principle of stupidity. Where it is for the benefit of the people, we vote in favour. Third. We voted deliberately, including by weighing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u42	Basil Nadrag, Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u43	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, by procedure. We spend too much time on what is in general far from our people's interests. Act 7741 should be considered today - amending some Ukrainian laws on the adoption centre. We have to be more serious about what we're dealing with. Because to date, according to the official data of the same Ministry of Family and Youth, we have only 97,000 orphans, 30,000 are in shelters, and 152 000 are in crisis families. We've got street kids from 100 to 200. These are the problems we have to deal with. Therefore, I think that when we put priorities in law, we should think about it. And to address the issues that the population needs today. And our pre-election pledges, the oaths that we hear here, and Adam Ivanovich is absolutely right to say that the election campaign will start on the 26th, and we see it on the full agenda today, too, there is a problem. So let's talk about what the population needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u44	I mean, out of 26 officially. And today you can say anything you want because it's not forbidden by law. Please, Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Procedural issues include the possibility of each faction from each bill. The position of each faction, large on condition, smaller or small, is very important. And if we have in the Supreme Council a hundred times a day in a discussion of whether or not the soloists are speaking, that means that we're distorting the general picture of a balanced agreement between the positions of all factions. The perverse laws that do not reflect the interests of citizens are the result of such a distortion. We demand that the chairman give the floor first to factions, representatives of factions. If it costs three minutes, take two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u46	Oleg Grigorovich, the problem is, it's been raised more than once, and we even voted for changes to the Rules, but they didn't. The Rules state that the person who signed up first. The first are recorded the fifties that get up and come in at five o’clock. Yes, please listen to two announcements and we will move on to the agenda at last. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and articles four two and four three of the Supreme Council Regulations, I inform you of the entry into force of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine of the Platinum of Vladimir Mikhajlovich into the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and on the basis of a decision of the faction authorized by a representative of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. And in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies and the relevant articles of the Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Astrov-Šumilova Hennady Kostinović, into the membership of the National People's Trust Group. Postfractions are dropping, party numbers are increasing. Yes, we are considering the draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, registration number 0307. First Deputy Foreign Minister Buteyko Anton Denisovich will report, please, for three minutes. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u47	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national deputies, distinguished representatives of television, radio and communication, whom I welcome to your professional festival. A draft law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank has been introduced, which is prepared in accordance with and with the requirements that exist before the drafting of the Bills. The President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers propose to ratify this agreement, the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank was signed in Luxembourg on June 14, 2005. And under this agreement, we will be able to engage in Ukraine's economy with cheap long-term, financial resources from the European Investment Bank for the implementation of important infrastructure, energy, environmental and other investment projects of national importance. The European Investment Bank provides loans and guarantees aimed at financing projects in different sectors of the economy. The Bank's priority areas of funding are the development of medium and small business buildings, modernization of transport infrastructure, and energy conservation projects. The bank finances joint or individual projects provided that their cost is more than 20 million euros and that the bank’s share of funding is 50 percent. Normal practice 25-30 percent. Part of the cost will be borne by the self-financing of the beneficiaries of the investment projects in Ukraine. I would like to point out that, for the time being, from the countries of the former Soviet Union, the bank is working with only four countries: Russia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. The use of loans, as well as the terms and conditions under which they are granted, will be determined by individual loan agreements between the bank and the borrowers identified by the parties. And this will be regulated by Ukraine's legislation and the Bank's statute. The implementation of the Framework Agreement will be carried out by enterprises of various forms of ownership, regional authorities, including local self - government and the Ministry. I would like to point out that, in practice, the fixed loan rate for 20 years is 5.16 percent for Euro loans, 5.13 percent for US dollars. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u48	Please sign up for questions. Please, Samuel, Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Nikolai Vasilevich Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u50	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. Mr. Buteyko, please answer that question. Do you not think that the European Investment Bank has the most favourable conditions? To date, its activities have been exempt from almost any level of tax, tax, tax, etc. Please tell me how much will the State budget receive as a result of the bank's activities in Ukraine? And secondly, does this harm our banking system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u51	Can I answer that? My answer is, in this situation, in accordance with the agreement, the bank will act on the principles on which other international financial organizations in Ukraine are already represented. In this situation, too, if the treaty is ratified, and I call for it to be ratified, we will have financial resources that are not enough. I have already mentioned that a fixed loan rate of 20 years is five and thirteen percent for U.S. dollars. The floating rate is 53 percent and 1.93 percent respectively for the euro and for the United States, you compare what rates our enterprises can get from our existing financial institutions. And I think the answer will be obvious. Taxes coming into the budget will be determined according to which amounts will be involved. It is predicted that the European Investment Bank will allocate up to 500 million euros for the countries I have listed, including Ukraine, 50 percent for Ukraine. And that's until 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u52	Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u53	Please give the word to your colleague Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u54	Dry ready, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u55	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi. Anton Denisovich, I'm here. The city of Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. I would like to ask you this question over a question asked by your colleague Kravchenko: Who was the initiator, who lobbied the signing of such an agreement, whose visas were there on his back as his last name, this man? If it's Spec, then it's all clear. And the second question. Do not avoid the question of the MPs. How much does the budget get? Therefore, under this framework agreement, no taxes, no congregations, no payments will be paid by this bank as a result of its economic activity, and the budget will suffer losses. And the third question. Is that fair? Now you're telling us that an enterprise can't take credit at national credit banks. They're not in these conditions, they're paying taxes!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u56	My answer is yes. I'm not avoiding answers, I answered. And I told you that loans would be taken by our entrepreneurs, our organs, and our self-government. And depending on that magnitude, we're going to figure out what taxes will come from usage. As far as the bank is concerned, the bank provides resources that no other financial institution can provide. So, please, if we don't want our land to have the opportunity to receive such financial resources at such tax rates, it's already our question with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u57	Thank you, Anton Denisovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee, Vice-President of the Vitaly Hometicnik Committee. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Banking, at its meeting on 15 November, considered a draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. The project provides for the Bank's long-term financial resources for the implementation of infrastructure, energy conservation and other state-wide investment projects. Looking forward to possible investment projects, the committee decided to support the bill. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill has such serious observations. First. Article 2 of the Bank’s framework agreement states that the Bank may freely carry out the activities provided for in the Bank’s statute in Ukraine. However, there is no provision for this statute in the material of the bill. So the committee was even considering this issue without the bank's statute. So we can't answer what the bank is and what the statute is. The same article 2 states that the bank, on the basis of its evaluation of the project, decides whether or not to provide funds to support the project and under what conditions. So we have to make a decision, agree to ratify the framework agreement, and the terms and conditions will be determined by the bank after we make the decision. And whether these conditions are acceptable. Ukraine remains a question. I mean. That's two. Third. Part 3 of article 7 of the Agreement states that the bank will have free access to the national financial market of Ukraine in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and its obligations and securities, including the tax regime, at least as favourable as the one granted to the most privileged international financial institutions. However, it is not noted which are "the most privileged international financial organisations". Third. It also warns the article that the bank may, by written notice addressed to Ukraine, terminate this agreement by sending any such report, not affect the rights and benefits received by the bank. At the same time, the termination of the agreement by Ukraine is due to be notified by the bank in six months. By analysing this position with regard to the parties' notices of termination of the agreement, discrimination against the rights of the parties to the treaty can be observed. As for the conditions, it has already been noted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u59	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u60	As far as I'm literally a few minutes on terms of lending, the following is noted: loans from the EBRD to businesses in Ukraine are more advantageous, because it provides credit resources weighing 70-75 percent, i.e. three times more, and agreements with them have less privilege and aid. Taking into account the above-mentioned comments to the bill, I personally feel that there is no basis for the economic relevance of its adoption. But I announced the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u61	The committee supports. He said at the beginning. Have a seat. Shall we discuss it? Yeah, let's do 12 minutes. Please, Rudzkowski. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u62	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not a simple law that is proposed to us for ratification. It's prepared, first of all, by Roman Speck, who is known to us as having at least $5 billion in external debt, and now it's proposed by this law, which, first of all, gives this bank zero tax benefits, which puts our entire financial system in unequal conditions. Where, then, is the market equal to the conditions? The other one. This bank will have the right even at a time when attacks will be carried out on our financial system, such as targeted, uncontrollable exchange of currencies into national currency and vice versa. So it can actually play on our currency market without restrictions and we have to ratify it, vote. The bank, on the other hand, has other benefits that do not work at all with regard to any financial instrument. His colleagues will have more immunity than diplomats in Ukraine. No one can be held responsible for excluding an accident on the road, that is, what I want to do, and we have to ratify it. He can't search, his property can't even be nationalized or used in national interests. If we vote for this, we will create an entity in Ukraine that has more rights and powers than government authorities. We will vote here in favour of all the agreements entered into by the bank, their powers and so on and the entry into force is determined, not by the Ukrainian court, but by the Hague court. And the State is under an obligation to fulfill and ensure that they are fulfilled. In fact, we are losing our sovereignty in the financial market of Ukraine, voting in favour of this agreement, actually losing Ukraine's financial sovereignty in relation to this bank. I think this is unacceptable in Ukraine. So we're going to put Ukraine's financial institutions in unequal conditions, and we're going to get Ukraine's control over all the agreements that are going to be concluded, because they're going to be a business deal, and the state is going to be responsible. It's too much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin. After him, Leonid Chernewicki has not been heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. First of all, I appeal to the leadership of the Supreme Council for the reason that similar writings have been made in subsequent similar agreements and have been given to us is unacceptable and is an insult to the national deputies of Ukraine. This is not a font that should be used in a higher legislature. But despite this letter, I still read this agreement, and then I took this Law, which is called the International Contracts of Ukraine, which you and I adopted in 2004. In this treaty, only the President of Ukraine and everything else can enter into international agreements on behalf of Ukraine. This is article one: The President of Ukraine or his commission on behalf of Ukraine. This document is signed on behalf of Ukraine, but not by the President. The President's orders are gone. We're not given at least. Maybe it is, but we're not. Now, about what Rudzkowski said. I'd like to refer to specific arguments. A bank with which we make a deal is a profitable institution or is it profitable? Apparently, it's profitable. Then I'll send you to another. Article 3 of that project, which is now subject to ratification: interest and all other payments, due to the activities envisaged by this Agreement, as well as the bank’s assets and income associated with such activity. They're not taxed. Okay. I want to see where the budget committee concludes, what will be the impact on the budget? Give me your opinion. Have you considered it or not? According to our law, this is to be concluded. Next. I'm drawing your attention to article eight, "The privileges and immunity of the bank." Well, according to our legislation, our banks have no such privileges. Thus, these things are written here: the representatives of the bank will use at least such immunities and privileges during the implementation of the Agreement related to or to the execution of the Agreement. [[This is the second part of the second article of the eighth]] First. Immunity from the judicial and administrative authorities regarding their actions in the course of their official duties, except in the event of damage caused by an accident caused by a representative. ‘B’. Diplomatic privileges and facilities granted to Ukraine for official communication for the transfer of documents and missions. The spores, the ones. Disputes are discussed only in The Hague, the Netherlands, and so forth. I would ask you, honourable national deputies, to postpone consideration of this document. Give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u65	You give him your word? No, it's not. Leonid Chernewsky. Behind him is Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and radio listeners. Leonid Chernovecki, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. I want to tell you that this law is shameful and in general is something that is unpleasant for us to even discuss. Look what this is all about. It is the case that the foreign bank, which is part of Ukraine, is completely uncontrollable by us and the Government, is investing our economy at the direction of the Government. What is in the Government today is, it is probably on the right track, there are today enterprises that are controlled by the spending portion of their budget. They are mostly 90 per cent, working on a single scheme – the production of underpriced products, bribes from abroad and shares in the Ministry of this money and the loss of data from the enterprise itself. Second. But if only that were serious, it would be better to allow such preferences to be judged in The Hague rather than in our corrupt courts to our entrepreneurs, including petty ones. But that would be genius. God, we'd get rid of problems. The European courts are overwhelmed by our claims by pensioners, ordinary people and entrepreneurs who do not live in Ukraine. Yeah? It would have been better if the Ministry had given such immunity to our disadvantaged citizens, but that would certainly have been very noble. In addition, how such investment banks are formed. Since Ukraine is among the most corrupt, one of the most corrupt countries in the world, where there is no law in which there is arbitrary and all other things, this money is largely formed from mafia structures that are willing to lose it just to be washed through another country. I therefore believe that instead of adopting this law, we must condemn it and say, "Well, guys, what are you doing?" We open the door to the money that is completely uncontrollable, for which our children and grandchildren will be responsible, who will make a direct move through the government agreement, that is to say, and in no way control over us, but they will be responsible in The Hague if we press their tails. And not paying taxes, that's bullshit, bullshit, that's all. And I want to say good-bye to everyone who listens to the transmission, calls their relatives and loved ones, that's the biggest thing we can do today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u67	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u68	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, respected radio listeners, I did not by chance ask the First Deputy Minister what was losing Ukraine. The answer was quite clear that no one considered it and, if they did, only in their own pocket. Lobby law. And the Communist faction will not vote in favour of the bill. But I would like to draw your attention to the following. As we all agree today, we condemn the entry of foreign capital into Ukraine. Why? Because it affects the interests of some sitting in the hall. Why, yesterday, did all the media only show Communists who protected Ukraine's interests throughout the economic space when WTO laws were passed? Why were there no other representatives, other factions, yesterday, to condemn the penetration of world capital into Ukraine's territory, where Ukraine's interests are surrendered? And yesterday, three drafts were passed on first reading. That's what I'm most interested in today. We don't know that yesterday's law on first-reading leather, export, customs duties and so on. It's a law that will destroy our own producer. But that doesn't seem to concern us today. But it will touch us. And, as a matter of fact, in the near future. And what I want to do today is talk to the crying socialists: how much can you listen to your Pharisee about what you're supposed to be with the people today, supposed to be with Ukraine? The frost will come out, crying on the rostrum, all the next speakers will be crying on the rostrum. Today, with full power, today's participation in power, today, licking Kuchma, will bring Yushchenko back as President, protecting him from everything, and you, if you're talking about going to the rostrum today, if that's what your interests are, you're starting to react right now. Tell me who you're with. Define Yushchenko and live with Yushchenko. Or at the end of the day, stop pharisaicizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u69	Yes, please finish, now only those who are written are motivated. It's a minute's sleep. It's a black guy. We need to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u70	The National Movement of Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear National Deputies! The statements made by the previous deputies on this issue only mean that a strong competitor of their banks enters the Ukraine market, only defending their interests. Ratification of this agreement will help create more favourable conditions for participation in Ukraine's investment resources. In particular, creating legal principles, financing by the bank can have a positive impact on the implementation of investment projects in Ukraine, on the employment of the population, on the well-being of the population of Ukraine. We have a positive experience of ratifying similar bills. For example, three years ago we ratified from the IDB 100 million by 100 kilometers from Strya to Uzhgrad, today this road has a European face. We hope that the next ratification we've carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u71	Yes, please, Nigger. After him, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u72	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. I felt that either the MPs did not understand what was going on, or they were deliberately distorting the facts. It's not a commercial bank, it's an international financial organization that makes loans, loans to other states, it doesn't open its branches in Ukraine, how it can pay taxes. It's a framework agreement, there can't be details here, it's just an agreement, that Ukraine won't refuse to get loans from the European Investment Bank. And where does such mistrust in a European bank, a solid structure, come from, are not the frauds we have here in Ukraine. And that's why I think it would be unwise to give up the ability to get loans for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u73	We can learn when they come, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Darling, after him, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u74	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I have the only question, it may even arise in some of the previous speakers. But if it's a normal financial institution, if it's a normal bank, then why are we asking that diplomatic immunity should be, not subject to and be in a legal area, not Ukrainian, but international. Well, explain to me, why are we letting those who will not pay taxes that will not be subject to our legislation and their employees will enjoy diplomatic integrity? Well. We're creating something with you that's hard to understand when we're talking about the European Investment Bank. Then what is it? Then let us call it that: this is a diplomatic mission with all the consequences. Well, if it's a commercial firm, it's going to be a business trip, because I don't think it's going to do charity and just give money back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u75	Peanut. It's Scudder.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, this law is not easy, and it needs to be treated very carefully. A few words about facts. Fact number one: what wins is the individual. We understand from the report: nothing. What Wins the Budget? We understand from the report that it is losing. Banks can be treated differently, banks can be treated differently, but this is a sector of the economy. We have already lost our steel industry through the sale of the Crimsons. The next one will be the loss of the banking sector. Next, let's take foreign investors to the village, sell the land. Then let's take down the borders, dissolve all the public institutions, and make Ukraine a free zone for foreign capital. Are you referring to these facts? The Party of the Regions will never support such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u77	Please, George Skudar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Two weeks ago, the State Committee on Ukrainian State Prizes met. At that meeting, it was decided that the State Award should be awarded to the developers and creators of the passenger car in Ukraine. What are we doing, taking credit?Oh, my God! This is without credit, without all the help of the State, a team of scientists have set up a passenger car that is worthy of the State Prize! What are we doing today?Oh, my God! We are at the top of this plant and we want to borrow 120 million loans in the form of foreign cars, in the form of foreign labour in Ukraine. It's a crime before the State. I believe that the Ministry has no right to go out with such laws and discredit both the people and the enterprise and our economy. This is a law demonstrating that power is in the State today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u79	We were in a bit of a hurry, but nothing. We're going to assume that the next law has also been exchanged and we're going to vote now. Please report the moment, the closing word, and we will be determined. Anton Denisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u80	Dear National Deputies! This is a framework agreement with an international financial institution that will lend loans to our banks to our entrepreneurs. And when it comes to the fact that it's an institution that's not supposed to pay taxes, it's about the employees of this financial body of the international community. If he comes here, he has the privileges, as are the employees of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And in this case, if we allow our entrepreneurs and bankers to take these loans at low rates, they will be able to implement those projects that are needed today in small cities. Local self-government has no normal resources, which allows us to have them. So I think it's completely wrong that the statements in the context that we should be calculating some damage or something right now. Taxes will be paid by those banks and businesses that will implement these funds. The structure itself, like the European Investment Bank, is a financial organization. Now, when it comes to signing a document, the document was signed in compliance with all the requirements. When it comes to what the state will be responsible for these finances and resources. No, the state won't answer, because under this agreement, it's a framework agreement, it's a specific enterprise. If they have resources, let's say they have 50 percent on the project, and they don't have any more, they're going to be able to use exactly the financial resources from this investment bank. So I urge you to ratify and not talk about the fact that power is not like that. The government gives you the opportunity to get our businesses in the regions to have the right resources for our development. So please do not make such statements that this does not suit national interests. If it didn't work, we wouldn't have offered you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u81	Yes, dear fellows, we have spoken, we will now vote. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Registration number 0307. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:24:49]] For the 180. Not accepted. The factions? Please. Communists - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, National Party - 1, Our Ukraine - 25, Block Timoshenko - 30, Ukrainian People's Party - 19, Socialists and Social Democrats - 0, National Block of Lithuania - 0, “Trust of the People” - 4, “Reforms and Order” - 11, National Movement of Ukraine - 14, “One Ukraine” - 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, non-fractional - 1. The bill was rejected. Yes, have a seat, please, I'll give you a minute. The replica. Who's there? Will he be performing? Please, John. One minute of recess, we agreed that we were working without interruption today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u82	John Boki, the Socialist faction. According to the Socialist faction, I'm forced to say this today. In this room, the representatives of the faction who professes an authoritarian patriarchal political culture are endlessly juggling different words of the kind there, the authorities of nationalists, socialists and so on, and in these people, you know, these words fly out like that because there's no conscience. But today, I want to answer to the Queen of the Doña Fireworks, who has spoken and asked, who are you, the socialists? And they say, "Are you with Yushchenk or with someone?" So I have to say one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, you must understand that the Socialists never prayed to any chiefs, unlike you. We don't have chief psychology. And we've always been and will be with the Ukrainian people, and we don't go with slogans. It's written on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u83	Two factions of Communists and Social Democrats. I repeat, I've exchanged lines, that's enough. Two factions of Communists and Social Democrats are asking for breaks. Please, Proscoratova, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u84	Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] We are concerned about the situation that took place in the village of Kozina in the district of Obukhiv. It was realized that a underground village council had been set up to support the village’s authority. Valentina Sparrow formed a new village council by means of illegal elections, which conducts so - called sessions and makes decisions on behalf of the community, including on land issues. In doing so, the authorities are trying to convince the public that the support of lawlessness in the village is for the sake of stability. China’s governor, Eugene Jętjak, who promised to report to the Cossacks who, in some way, received the land, somehow became fearfully silent. Then again, Cosin’s land interests have Godfathers and relatives of the President. So the actions of the President and his team are intended to preserve in any way the village head Valentina Horobec, whose signature is under many documents that have been illegally distributed hundreds of hectares of land. For two and a half years, the Public Prosecutor’s Office has investigated numerous criminal offences that have brought charges against Mr. Horobec, but the prosecutor’s office and the investigation are under intense pressure from the President, the governor, and other high - ranking members of the orange team. So it's not moving, they're trying to close it. A year ago, on Maidan, Viktor Yushchenko indignantly said that for judges, the calls of an uncle meant more than the law! I wonder which call your uncle got illegally released from custody, Valentina Sparrow, without a court order, am I right? The president, in fact, said that she had two underage children, I think, 24 and 29 years old. The Faction SDPU(o) believes that it is urgent to defend the legitimate interests of the local self-government of the state and the rights of citizens from attacking the criminal group that took power in the village of Kozin and to stop the illegal actions of the group. The law enforcement authorities conduct a thorough examination of the facts and circumstances created in Kozina by the anti-constitutional authorities, give them a legal assessment, and in the case of the existence of a criminal composition, bring a criminal case to justice and finally begin to carry out their pre-election promises that law should be a priority in the state and actually become a guarantor of legality. And thank you to the factions of the Communists who agreed to this break so that we can announce our application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u85	Yes, please, Simonek's microphone, a replica. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u86	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear comrades, from the previous speech, I would just like to say about the morals and morals of those who speak. Two years ago, during the elections, or even more of the newspaper Silskie News, she made fun of the Compartia and personally over me, pouring out the ear of dirt for the fact that the faction of Communists by conducting the experiment gave the working group the name of the combination of Ilic, the name Ilic, to become the master of the combination. Today, those who go out and talk about morality, criticizing Communists, pouring dirt, did not apologize for what they are saying today. It's the best combination, it's the best social protection, we're taking the Director-General's list. We'll fight for them. Where's your conscience? Where's your morale? Thank you to the Communists for first telling us that we have raised an opportunity for you to fight today for the rights of a citizen in Mariupola. What kind of morals you're talking about, you're flying so much dirt, it's groundless, and you don't have the conscience to apologize at first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u87	The draft Law on Ukraine’s accession to the Protocol of 3 June 1999 relating to amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail of 9 May 1980 is being complied with. Maybe we should vote, haven't we actually discussed it? Poor guy. Vote? I am voting on the adoption of the Act on Ukraine's accession to the Protocol of 3 June 1999 relating to the amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail of 9 May 1980. Please vote. [[12:32:29]] For-195 The factions, please. Now, now. Communists – 6, “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 20, “Our Ukraine” – 28, Block Timoshenko – 8, Ukrainian People's Republic – 25, Socialists – 25, SDPU – 3, People's Block – 17, “Trust of the People” – 13, “Reforms and Order” – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, “One Ukraine” – 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 12, non-fractional – 9. Yes, please, what's not clear? Sign up, three minutes. Let me get this straight. Sign up for the vote, we'll be right there. Yes, please, Alexandrovska, Nadrana.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, Alexandrovsky, Communist faction, the city of Kharkiv. Adam Ivanovich, we've gone through a reduced voting procedure here, I'd like information from the Cabinet of Ministers. What warnings have been made in preparing this instrument for ratification? Because the Communist faction knows there's a warning, we'd like to know about it and then take a position, because we just couldn't focus. Please inform us in what state of preparation for ratification of this treaty, and what warnings are there, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u89	Okay. The Deputy Minister is about to prepare. Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u90	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. This accession to the Protocol reduces the time for delivery of goods and the cost of transport by excluding the double conversion of transport documents. Therefore, I think the point of the problem can be summed up in this way: part of the room has simply not been focused and I think we can go back to reconsidering this issue now without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin, please. After him, Crook.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I will vote in favour of this document, but I call your attention to the inadmissibility of further putting the question to the vote without its consideration. That's why we didn't vote, that's why. And secondly, we need to report on the question, then we would understand that the new directive, the new concept of drafting the convention, because it's a new edition, already takes into account the European Union directives, which on transport policy are designed to distinguish the sphere of transport from railway infrastructure, equal access for users to railway infrastructure, creating conditions for healthy competition in the railway market, allowing a mobile warehouse to be exchanged on the rail network of different states. What this will mean for the State of Ukraine should be explained to us. And actually, I want to understand what's going on on the railway right now, so the gymnastics is in charge, and then something else is going on, and you're not even letting us hear the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u93	Yes, Yuri Anatolyevich, as always, you are right. But there's no one left to speak for, and there's another one to speak for. A raven, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I don't think they voted because the MPs don't understand, all deputies understand. And the convention must accept this. But. There's a warning, that's what needs to be removed. We discussed this issue on a committee of inquiry. And it is not in equal conditions to limit the rights of Ukrainian citizens to foreign citizens. Here's what we need to do. I mean, the remark is removed, and I think the whole room is going to vote. Because we must be, at least, particularly considering the Convention in the Zacarpathian and Lviv areas, where passenger transport is not in that direction at all. Therefore, these warnings must be removed, that is, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. And vote in favour of the convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u95	Please Deputy Minister Gandabur Vasil Teodorovich. Explain this very issue of warnings, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u96	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. Indeed, there is a warning in the draft law. They are related to what we suggest that if there are accidents in Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine apply to Ukrainian citizens. Because under this Convention, if this happens, there is a great deal to be paid. So there was a warning from the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, with the warning we have heard that what applies to Ukrainian citizens is the laws of Ukraine, I am voting on the ratification of the Act on Ukraine's accession to the Protocol of 3 June 1999 concerning amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail of 9 May 1980. Please be kind enough to make a warning. We're voting friendlyly. [[12:37:59]] For 325 Thank you. The law is passed. The draft Law is subject to ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between Ukraine and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of safeguards in connection with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Can we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the Additional Protocol Act as a whole to the Agreement between Ukraine and Ukraine. Please report by Santa Claus Helen Anatolovna, Head of the State Committee for Nuclear Regulation. Sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u99	No, wait, let them sign up. You answer the question, it'll be more productive. Yes, please, three minutes Polit. Leonide Mikhailovich, more often go to the session while this is reported and answered, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u100	I ask you to pass the word, Eshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u101	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u102	Fucking Communist faction. Our faction asks you to explain the basics of this treaty. And why, then, is this treaty being made today and not before it was made? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u103	Thank you. Then it's essentially a contract. The traditional guarantee system has been used in Ukraine for 10 years. According to these traditional guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u104	Helen Anatolyvna, please answer the questions, you were not asked about the substance of the treaty, you were asked why this treaty was so late for ratification?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u105	This treaty was actually signed in 2000, in August, and is being ratified today in 2005. He was already out and listening in the session room on January 12th this year, then he wasn't supported. In particular, on the part of the Communist faction, a task was then set up to be checked. The government has examined whether, indeed, we will be able to do this without damage to the state, without damage to our enterprises. We checked it out, did a lot of work. From this question, on 4 November, a “round table” was held in the Supreme Council under the chairmanship of the national deputy Bronnikov Vladimir Kostinović, to which our scientists, and those enterprises, and ministries, and the authorities responsible for it, took part. And in principle, we made sure that Ukraine was ready to fulfil its obligations under an additional protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u106	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u107	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. I have a quick question. It's about content. Of course, we have to uphold the law, and we will support it, but please tell us that Ukraine is giving the International Atomic Energy Agency access to the location of the agency. And at the same time, there is this footnote: If Ukraine does not indicate, what can happen to Ukraine when Ukraine seeks, for example, the satisfaction of the agency’s requirements in alternative locations? Are not the national interests of our nation affected in some way or in some way?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u108	And I'll tell you, it was also one of the questions that got us a little bit delayed with the treaty ratification. The first country to have integrated guarantees was Australia in 1997. To date, guarantees have been applied in 71 countries. And we have a world experience of how this is done. We do not see any obstacles to doing so in Ukraine, nor do we see any problems for us. Even today, a three-year experience in the first nuclear-weapon State, China, which has ratified first, we see that even in the nuclear-weapon State, there are no problems today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u109	Please. Come on, sit down. From the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Igor Ivanovich Ostas. Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, this additional protocol is indeed aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of the international regime for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. I'm just going to look at this round table, which was happening, which stressed that the development of the Ukrainian nuclear and industrial complex would have significant negative consequences if the additional protocol was not adopted. Yes, for Ukraine, which is part of today's global world and imports 100 percent of nuclear fuel for nuclear power plants and creates its own nuclear fuel cycle, it works for projects in Western countries on nuclear shelter sites. Refusal to ratify an additional protocol will endanger both the growth and the existence of an atomic industrial complex. This will be a barrier to the development and use of highly intelligent modern technologies, such as the promising technology of the fourth generation of nuclear power plants. So the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting on October 19th reviewed this bill and approved its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u111	Thank you. I see they want to talk. Please, 12 minutes. Gardens. Sergey Zizko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u112	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd region. The socialists especially welcome the professional festival of journalists who work on radio and television and enjoy the best in their professional activities. But the law is the law. The law is important for Ukraine and especially for the Kirovograd region, which is the main supplier of uranium raw materials for the nuclear fuel complex and not just our state. The development of this sector is being achieved, but not at the pace that life requires. This applies directly to, for example, the Novocostinian Mineyard, in the Malovsky region of Kirovograd. The shaft should start its work in 2007, but the main obstacle is this: there may be unsatisfactory paces in the construction of the Novomyrrod – Mala Vyska – Alexiyevna gas pipeline to this mine. The entrance to the mine system allows for the opening of thousands of new jobs and the restoration of those who have already been and are lost to this day. There is much done by the head of the district government, socialist poor Alexander Ivanovich. And there will be improvement in life if we can make and adopt the necessary laws at the right time that will contribute to the development of domestic production and to the production of goods. It is also expected that the application of the additional protocol will soon be accepted by a group of nuclear suppliers as a prerequisite for the export of nuclear materials and technologies to the country of destination and to Ukraine. In the event that this act is not ratified, it will mean banning the supply of nuclear fuel to nuclear power stations. Therefore, it is necessary to uphold this law, and the socialists will support it. With the adoption of this law on the application of guarantees, we will have appropriate advantages and will. We will not be subject to any prohibition. With regard to the initial information that is being prepared to be transmitted to MAGATES, I agree with those who asked questions, in this case this information needs to be sufficiently dosed, but within the framework of the relevant treaty. The implementation of the Additional Protocol does not require additional costs and, once again, the Socialists support this bill and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u113	Sergey Zizko. Leonid Cherniwiecki is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u114	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to pay less attention to the political consequences of the ratification of the Additional Protocol under consideration than to the national security issue involved. Article 7 of the National Security of Ukraine Act, adopted in June 2003, states: “The inefficient use of fuel and energy resources, the insufficient pace of diversification of their sources poses a threat to the energy security of the State. These words apply to our nuclear energy to a full extent. It's still fresh in December 2004, and then a disassociated statement by the president of the Russian Twel Corporation regarding the possible suspension of nuclear fuel supplies to Ukraine's AES in 2005 seems to be due to debt. We are not assured that similar threats from Russian officials will become a reality. And so there's obviously a need to create your own closed-circuit nuclear fuel cycle for nuclear power plants, which we've been talking about for over 10 years. It's worth mentioning that we pay Russia for fuel for the AES over 300 million dollars a year. But with a considerable supply of raw materials and a number of efficient industries, we need to make the cost of capital construction that will be paid for over five years, and we will receive our own closed production cycle. The new Ukrainian authorities must exercise political will to defend national interests. But in order for the creation of its own nuclear cycle to be legitimate from the standpoint of world society, Ukraine is obliged to ratify the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between Ukraine and MAGATES on the Application of Safeguards in relation to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In doing so, especially for those parliamentarians who are guided by anti-Ukrainian views, I stress that if this agreement is not ratified, the consequences for Ukraine may be quite bad. A group of countries, nuclear suppliers, including Russia, are about to consider ratifying the Additional Protocol in a short time -- a prerequisite for exporting nuclear materials and technologies to the consumer country. That is, without ratifying the Additional Protocol, we are risking a ban on nuclear fuel supply for our AES in the near future. So, with respect to radio and television, you have the ability to see directly whether orthodox or opposition factions control your interests. Whether they are ready for their political tasks to create preconditions for a potentially possible energy crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u115	Leonid Chernewsky. Behind him is Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear national MPs, radio listeners! Christian-liberal party, Leonid Chernowitz. I think this agreement is noble in fact, and Ukraine should join it. But I want us to work with the government like this. And who can hear, please listen to what is being said. Ukraine has recently been the third nation in terms of the number of nuclear missiles. We were promised a very large amount of money from abroad for voluntarily leaving our population with mines where they fell, and that's where we completely destroyed the environmental situation and paid nothing. Where's the money? That's very interesting. I think we should say that we agree with this agreement, but we should mention our pensioners and the large number of people waiting for our help. And they're doing the right thing because Ukraine has to get it for this noble step, it's completely ridiculous, because first you need money, I know what happens to international institutions, and then you have to destroy rockets. So I think we can put this deal down for a couple of weeks, that's what we're going to do, and in general, we're going to lose nothing in principle, because we don't have any weapons, and our atomic stations are in a pitiful state. That's why it's gonna take money, or they're gonna explode! And what we were promised from both the United States and Russia, all of this should be done. If this is done, we will inform the people that this is all done, that we have no nuclear weapons nobler than any nation has ever done, and then we will quietly vote in favour of this agreement. And I think that we just don't have another way, because it's basically going to set us all up to keep track of how those we deal with fulfill their obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u117	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u118	Respectable colleagues. Before me there were two of my parliamentary comrades. I don't want to say anything offensive to them. But if I say they don't know what the proton is than the neutron, but the electron from the positron, that's the fact. But one of them wisely appreciated the substance of the bill and made comments and warnings. The other went on to continue the line that had in due course been implemented through the Ukrainian Science and Technology Centre. You remember, we have repeatedly considered the existence of such a centre for the money of Sweden, Canada, Australia, the United States, and through which all the secrets of our military-industrial complex -- rockets, nuclear technologies -- went to the kopecks of the lab. And there, after the expert councils of this laboratory, they returned in the form of grants for the meagre rations for the content of our science. It hurt me to see it. At the same time, to some extent, I could only understand how our scientists, the beauty and the color of Soviet atomic, rocket technology, were running into the trap behind these grants. Now to this bill. Well, of course we have to agree that we don't have nuclear weapons. Then what else do we have to control? And this is when you start reading that we still need to control the capacity of production uranium mines and enrichment plants, the annual turnover of production of such mines and enrichment plants for Ukraine as a whole. The only thing we have left of the Soviet great country is uranium mines and uranium stockpiles 50 years in advance explored by Soviet geologists. We are already giving up the neo-Constantine birth for joint exploitation with the Americans. Well, let's give now the secrets of our unexplored and unexplored sites, to Uncle Sam and Mr. El Borodei, the Nobel laureate, of course, not for helping us deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Our herbivores have already given him an assessment of the relevant MAGATE session in Vienna in September of this year. And now, of course, this protocol will take us under full control. So I don't really know what we're winning by joining this protocol, what we're losing, I completely understand. We'd have to get to the bottom of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u119	The discussion is over. Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption of the law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between Ukraine and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of safeguards in connection with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Registration No. 0290. [[12:57:13]] For 214 Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. [[12:57:35]] For 233 We're back. I am voting on the adoption of the law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between Ukraine and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the application of safeguards in connection with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Registration No. 0290. Please vote. [[12:58:07]] For 262 Copy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I am announcing the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the principles of cooperation in the oil sector. If there is no objection, could we put him to the vote immediately? No warning? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. It is the draft Law on Approval as a whole, as the Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the principles of cooperation in the oil sector Registration No. 0294. Please vote. [[12:59:05]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Now the next instrument of ratification. This is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the Basic Principles and Directions of Economic Cooperation. Registration number 0303. Is there a warning about this document? None. It is up to the vote to approve the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the basic principles and directions of economic cooperation. Registration number 0303. Please vote. [[12:59:56]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We now have to ratify the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Panama on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments. Registration number 0308. No warning? None. I vote in favour of the Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Panama on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments 0308. Please vote. [[13:00:40]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Tajikistan on Long-term Economic Cooperation for 2003-2012 is being considered. Registration number 0310. All the positive conclusions are. I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Tajikistan on long-term economic cooperation for 2003-2012. Registration number 0310. Approval of ratification. Please vote. [[13:01:38]] For 337 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law for consideration of the simplified procedure for amending certain laws of Ukraine, Registration No. 8026 and Registration No. 8063, is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the procedures for the recovery of the debtor's ability to pay]] A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a Moratoria for the enforcement of property. [[on the prohibition of bankruptcy decisions]] We're going to look at them separately, aren't we? Turn around? Turn around. Please report on Bill 8026, 8163. Then Romanyuk, please, Sergey Andryovich. Is it? From the committee, please, Vladimir Demjochin. Yes, dear fellows, let us then consider, for all the documents are necessary and presented. Who signed up, please. Slippery. Prepare the Levtsun. Please, let's talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u121	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The city of Kirov. This law should first address the issue of State property alienation outside the framework of legislation on privatization and non-abuse and protection of the State's interests in the application of bankruptcy and enforcement mechanisms. To this day, the issue of improving the enforcement mechanism remains unregulated. The ability of central and local authorities to coordinate their efforts to prevent bankruptcy is not fully exploited. Such a situation is largely due to the failure of the executive branch to take sufficient and effective measures to complete debt repayment. This is why a very tense situation has arisen at the Lighthouse Calculator, which has not actually worked since 1996. From that time on, he has been in debt on his salary. By 1998, the factory was the only manufacturing facility that had more than three thousand people working, but with the permission of the Bankruptcy Agency in the form of financial recovery and increased investment attractiveness, the company was divided into two enterprises: the Lighthouse Engineering Plant, where almost all the equipment was transferred and then the factory was sold for no price; and the State Factory Calculator, with all the debts, including the pay of the machine factory. For four years, the factory had become nothing, but the directors had changed effectively, which one in front of the other was in a hurry to cut off the greedy piece for themselves. And in the end, the factory is completely stolen, the debt on the pay goes up, and of course it doesn't pay. About one and a half thousand court appeals were made by a team of factories and 36 collective appeals to all branches of government, starting with the President and the Henprocurator. This is the result of the “skill” leadership of reformers who have done so well in the “restructuring” that there is nothing to be exhibited at the auction. [[in quotes]] [[Also in quotes]] And as always, the worker remained the extreme. And since this enterprise is a state-owned enterprise, on behalf of the collective, I demand that Minprompolitics decide immediately on the issue of pay and debt, to include in the State Budget next year an article on the repayment of all debts of the state-owned company “Calculator”, to speed up the decision on the future share of the plant and the involvement of potential investors in the recovery of the enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u122	National MP Levcun. Please prepare now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u123	Vladimir Levcun, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Dear colleagues! Dear radios and television sets! Bills of Laws 8026, proposed by colleagues Moroz and Spodarenko, and 8163, proposed by Kabmin, aimed at improving the procedure for the recovery or bankruptcy of the payee. In this regard, it is proposed to amend several of Ukraine’s laws on mortgages, enforcement, the restoration of the debtor’s ability to pay or his recognition of bankruptcy, the order in which the taxpayer’s obligations to budgets and government trust funds are repaid. Particular attention is being paid to protecting enterprises that are strategically important to the economy of Ukraine and to the security of the state, especially dangerous enterprises or natural monopolies. These changes allow to reduce significantly the potential of modern “bandouts” that use the imperfections of legislation through bankruptcy, cynically acquire state property, with virtually no violation of Ukraine's laws. The most important benefit is the involvement of privatization authorities in the implementation of mortgage assets in the event of an acquisition of state-owned property. An enterprise that has a share of government property in its constitution is more than 25 percent. But in my opinion, this percentage should not be 25 percent, but 20 percent and above, because the fifth share of the property of the enterprises is also significant enough. The rise in requirements for the activities of arbitrators is a significant benefit because, unfortunately, often arbitrators are not working on the side of the state. It will significantly reduce the abuse during bankruptcy proceedings of expanding the powers of the central executive authority on the issue of economic policy in the recovery process, establishing a ban on the implementation of state-owned core funds. However, it should be noted that the draft Law, the first draft of the Law, the second has a common subject of regulation, but it also contains a large number of legislative proposals that are close and even identical to the content and with appropriate positions. In this regard, both laws may be considered at the same time. The faction of the Yulia Block will definitely support Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u124	Yes, thank you. Well, please, two words, finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u125	It supports all projects aimed at halting the looting of the Ukrainian state, every Ukrainian, starting with the “Cruvoristals”, the Nicopolsi Ferrospoline plant and others. In this respect, we are also considering these draft laws and will vote in favour of their adoption in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Olga Hinsburg will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u127	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, we are today considering laws and legislative changes in the protection of the interests of the State. Twenty-five percent. I want to say today from this rostrum that this is the right question, and why 25 per cent, not 20, not 10, or whether we have State property and its public interests end by 25 per cent or should be fully traced. Therefore, it seems to me that when we consider our colleagues' drafts, we can either debate this or not, and I would like to make a proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers. We must have separate legislation where it must be clearly stated how State property is protected, regardless of what percentage it is in the property or in the shares of an enterprise. It is not important that it is State, and States must be protected accordingly. Perhaps the same should be said of municipal property. Therefore, based on this logic, it is not entirely clear, in any case, why we are talking about 25 per cent today, and this is, as it were, the division of public property into two kinds: one that must be protected and one that cannot be protected. Now it's part of how these laws are written. So I want to say, for example, about Law 8026, I think it's just not neatly written in certain things. What is worth one rule when it is said that bankruptcy in the area of public interest should be dealt with by the State bankruptcy authority? We don't have that kind of bankruptcy. On 24 September, it was eliminated, and we do not have a bankruptcy body in the State. We had a bankruptcy agency. No, it's not. Today, we have bankruptcy on the part of the State, except as they say: “A child without eyes is behind seven babysitters”. Therefore, we do not have a clear, normal public policy. And I'm also going to give an example, maybe a little bit of another, as they say, subject, but still. We do not have the State Committee for Veterans today, and therefore the Veteran issue in the executive branch deals with all but a specific structure. Therefore, back to the topic of Bill 8026, one thing I can say is that such things are unacceptable. We cannot incorporate into the law an organ that does not exist and give it the authority to do so. Next moment. The amendments to article 20 of the Act provide that the Cabinet of Ministers shall deal with the issue of property and the exercise of the property in question in the manner in which it approves itself. Well, why the Cabinet of Ministers, do we make laws? Accordingly, such things, rules and actions must be prescribed in the law, and we will have fewer issues with you in the matter of corruption and everything else. So, I think these bills just need to be finalized. Too much, in my opinion, once again, I want to finish what I started with, they're not exactly neatly written, they're written carelessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u128	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u129	Dear National Deputies! Hinzburg, 161 constituency. For me, when I consider this bill, these are the main questions that I would like to raise before you. First. Today, our nation hardly sees the reality of the bankruptcy of our businesses. They're going to have to do this. This is a difficult situation. The first and most important thing that concerns me as a national deputy and should concern the state, and all of our citizens, these enterprises have a huge debt to the Pension Fund, they have a debt to pay to their employees, they have a debt to the city budget today, to the state budget. The situation is that if these companies are indebted to the Pension Fund, people who retire do not have the opportunity to form a pension. I'd like to see it in this law too. They're out of options. They should apply, if the enterprise is bankrupt and is in debt to the Pension Fund, they apply to the court, only the court then says that yes, this person was working, but she didn't get paid and she didn't pay the Pension Fund for her fault. And then the possibility of this person getting a pension is restored. And today we see that the changes that have been made, the substance that have been made in the Article of the Law on Bail, in accordance with which, in the case of an acquisition of property in a state enterprise, an enterprise in a statutory fund whose share of state ownership exceeds 25 percent, the implementation of the assets in question is done with the involvement of privatization authorities. You realize that today our organs in the justice system have no right or are unable to take possession of property. For example, an enterprise is taken, and they set up, for example, a five - story facility and say, “Take the five - story room, take the realizable, pay people a salary. ” And there are no documents on that floor: no inventory records. No projects, nothing, it's all to be done through inventory. And only then, after a while, can you do that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that essentially these amendments to this law are meant to improve this law, but it will not solve the problem of bankruptcy. Because that's the question that the state should be doing on the basis of its own. Not like today, for example, in the sumenium, they do this kind of business. They arrest accounts and do not allow the industry to work fully, thus requiring payment. And that doesn't result in anything. The factory doesn't work at all, and again, these bills don't go away, these debts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. If anyone insists, one, two, four men now. Vladimir Cherniak, please, one minute. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u131	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the law is of great importance. What is the intrigue of this bill? It is that previously it was possible to privatize the business of the borrower, i.e. bankruptcy as a form and method, and the method of privatization. And this enabled many tricksters and fraudsters to lead an enterprise into artificial bankruptcy and privatize at no cost. It is now proposed that this order of privatization be eliminated. The only way to privatize is through a court of law. But at the same time, a representative of an enterprise can be admitted to the State Property Fund, and this cannot be done without the participation of the State Property Fund. So the procedure is getting complicated. And it probably makes sense in real terms. At least.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u132	Thank you, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Please, Santa Claus. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u133	This bill is quite important, and socialists believe it must be adopted because at least some of the problems that have been said by previous speakers can be resolved, otherwise if not accepted, the process is prolonged. In particular, the proposed bill proposes to eliminate a number of contradictions. It's not a secret that we often have artificially realize or create conditions for artificial bankruptcy and a vivid example can be, in Kirovgrad, an enterprise like Kirovogradbudindustry, where it's easy to capture businesses like these. Or a clean metal factory in Lightwater. So socialists support this bill and will vote in favour and invite all deputies to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u134	Yes. Thank you. Please take the position of the government with regard to the bills that we have just considered. Please, from the spot, microphone. Microphone, please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted to make a proposal for a bill submitted by the government, number 8163. It's a five-minute rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u135	Please. Speak, speak. We have to get there in time, then there will be a Rules, please speak. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected national MP, has confirmed the imperfections of part of his standards in applying the law on the restoration of the debtor’s ability to pay or recognition by bankruptcy. This imperfection is shown primarily by the fact that nearly 70% of bankruptcy cases end in the liquidation of the debtor. And only one out of every tenth of the debt ends with the conclusion of a peace agreement or the satisfaction of creditors. The analysis shows that there is a growing trend in the application of the existing bankruptcy procedure to the strategic ones for the economy and security of the enterprise state, above all the public sector of the economy. This year 82 of these cases have been broken. In recent years, there has been a wide range of State property alienation schemes that have been used because of the imperfections of bankruptcy legislation. In particular, in the application of the sanctioning procedures by the sale of property in a manner established by the creditor committee. This took place at the VAT Makiyev Metalworks Combine, VAZ VAT Autolymovmash, the state-owned company of the Lugansk Construction Plant. Or through the formation of associations in statutory funds that transfer assets to enterprises. the sector, as was the case with the VAT “Krastel”, the Debaltsev metalworking machine building plant “Lonotext”. Since 2003, a rule has been introduced that allows creditors to exchange claims on debtor assets or corporate rights to withdraw their assets by non-competitive methods. This took place in the investment of the peace agreements signed by the Serp and Molott, Odessa’s “Centrolite” plant. Kowalski mechanical plant and others The initiation of a bankruptcy case is used to avoid paying taxes and compulsory payments. Taking advantage of the imposition of a moratorium on the satisfaction of creditors, sanctions are not applied to the performance of tax and congregation obligations, and individual entities initiate and recall such a case when the court undertakes to submit an appropriate declaration to the official printed authorities. In this way, the tax debt was suspended and cancelled last year, 2.5 billion, this year nearly 830 million. All of this is due to the lack of legislatively defined effective weights of the influence of public authorities on the course of events in bankruptcy proceedings. The responsibilities and responsibilities of parties and participants in bankruptcy cases have been blurred. On the basis of the limitations of the Rules, let me stop with the major changes proposed in Bill No. 8163. They refer to, firstly, the improvement of the functioning of the institute of arbitrators. A natural person, an entrepreneur who, in the process of implementing bankruptcy procedures, deals with the fate of thousands of working cities, the fate of whole cities, when it comes to urban enterprises, the multimillion-dollar financial flows, should be applied more requiringly than an arbitral license. For the same reason, his activities should be under more effective control. The bill therefore proposes rules on the specificity of licensing of this type of activity, on the strengthening of its control and on the influence of violators. We believe that these innovations will greatly complicate opportunities for abuse. Secondly, the project provides for both general and specific features of state bankruptcy, a city of start-ups, enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state, especially dangerous and natural monopolies. The proposed rules burden the start of bankruptcy proceedings on these enterprises, including an increase of ten times the amount of the creditor’s unconditional claims to the borrower for whom bankruptcy may be brought before the court. Positions are introduced to prevent the bankruptcy of such enterprises, such as the mandatory report of creditors three months before the date of the filing of the claim, the authority that manages the property or its owner. The State is expected to have a greater impact at all stages of bankruptcy, the obligation of natural measures for the recovery of the listed enterprises, the increased responsibility of the manager to the owner of such measures. Special conditions are provided for an arbitrator who may be assigned to such enterprises when there is experience in management positions, to appropriate enterprises for no less than three years, and has the right to exercise his or her authority only on one such enterprise. Today, there may be up to 20 cases in existing work and an arbitrator. Thirdly, with the aim of preventing the alienation of a holding at underpriced prices, the bill stipulates that in all cases the property of an enterprise of the holder, the valuation and the sale take place in order to privatise the holding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u136	Finish up, please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ While discussing a bill at a committee meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council made a proposal to send it to the government. At the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, a bill can be taken as a basis. I would ask you, honourable national deputies, to accept it in the first reading, taking into account the importance and necessity of changing existing legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u137	We'll be right there. Carmazine with motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u138	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Respectful national MPs certainly have a difficult situation and a complex impression after all that we have heard today and that the committee does not fully approve. In large accounts, many violations, including the functioning Constitution, can be envisaged, in particular the violation of the requirements of article 129 of the Constitution on the independence of the judge in the exercise of justice and article 14 of the Law on the judiciary, according to which the courts exercise justice on their own, because the agreement to increase or reduce the term of office for the insolvency of a State enterprise and an enterprise whose statutory fund is owned by a State is more than 25 per cent, otherwise the violation of the independence of the court cannot be considered. But we can't have the rationality that's in Alexander Frost and Spodarenko's bill. So I suggest that you accept it in the first reading, with due consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u139	Yes, Your Honor, please prepare for the vote. The first one is the bill of Law 8026, the author is the national deputy Alexander Alexander Moroz: the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine, for adoption as a basis. [[on improving the debtor’s recovery procedure]] Please vote. There's a vote coming, please. [[13:27:20]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The bill is then voted on as the basis of draft Law No. 8163: on amending certain laws of Ukraine, government. [[on the improvement of the business bankruptcy procedure]] Please vote. To be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[13:27:57]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Then I put to the vote a motion for re-reading draft laws, registration numbers 8026, 8163. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:25]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Then, maybe let's do it this way, vote each one separately. Dear colleagues, I'm the first to put forward a motion for re-reading the draft law, registration number 8026-deputy, we'll call it. Please vote. [[13:29:01]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Then I put to the vote the second proposal for re-reading the draft law registration number 8163 - government project. That's not the project. It's about to be considered. [[13:29:29]] For 185 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property is being announced. The reporter is the national deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Sidorovich Boki. Prepare for Valentine's Committee. When the report is done, then your report will be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! In recent times, the courts have widely ruled on the recognition of bankruptcy and the opening of liquidation procedures for state-owned enterprises and companies in statutory funds, at least 25 percent of which are State-owned. The judges of the farm courts do not always take into account the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property” of the dreamers for the enforcement of state-owned assets and societies. And these were already adopted in the Chortkow meatcombinate, the Uzhgradsky bird factory, the Enakiyevsky family, the Schwein and Gallanterian factory, the Slovenian ceramic combine, the Kharkiv household combination No 1 and others. There are now about 700 businesses in bankruptcy. They can, of course, be eliminated. At the beginning of the year, there were 177 thousand,336 executive documents worth 6 billion, 739 million dollars, and nearly 740 million dollars. In order to be satisfied with the amount of these executive documents from state enterprises, property that is almost in order exceeds that amount can be realized. Between 2001 and 2004, nearly 60 billion dollars were forced to dispossess property. At the same time, only about 4 billion dollars were available to meet creditors’ demands. A clear example of such shadow privatization is the sale of the Donetsk branch of Special Five Donbasenergo thermal power plants at the remaining balance sheet cost of more than 1 billion dollars for 207 million dollars. Or an attempt by the executive service of the Soviet district of Kiev to sell the “Rosava” stock package at the nominal cost of 102 million dollars for 4 million dollars. I mean, 4 percent of their nominal value. The sale and valuation of State property by the tax administration by the executive service is carried out under different schemes. This procedure is a convenient tool to rob a state. Although there are other examples. Thanks to the imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of property, many businesses have been saved from liquidation. Among them is “Equineozot”, Dniproenergo, Macyev Metalworks combined and so on. There are recommendations from the Supreme Court Bureau that oblige the courts not to order the bankruptcy of state-owned enterprises and households to open liquidation proceedings, but the courts do not comply with these recommendations. Therefore, the legislative provision of this procedure was needed to prevent the sale and distribution of large sums, as was already done, of 60 billion dollars in just three years. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u141	Report completed. Please take the seat of the committee. Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Chairman! The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting on 17 May this year, considered the draft Ukrainian Act amending and supplementing article 1 of the Act on the imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of property, with regard to the prohibition of bankruptcy judgements. In short, it is proposed that business courts should not be allowed to decide whether to declare bankruptcy or to open liquidation proceedings concerning State enterprises and economic societies whose statutory funds account for less than 25 per cent of the State. During the discussion of the bill, the members of the People's Committee questioned the draft and commented on it. The subject of the legislative initiative was then Semenjuk Valentina Semenovna, who, at the time of consideration, was a popular deputy of Ukraine, and assured members of the Committee that she would submit her second reading proposals, which would withdraw all comments, both from the General Scientific and Expert Office and from members of the Committee. Here I would simply like to point out that this bill is in conflict with, first and foremost, the Constitution, the author of which was the leader of the Socialist faction in the Supreme Council, Mr. Moroz Alexandrović. And, of course, socialists should think first of what they are introducing, or pushing the Constitution, or then of the conflict of the Constitution. It was therefore also discussed by the Committee, and by a majority of votes it was decided to support the bill under consideration and to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis, although the types of amendments to the bill, frankly, are simply not possible to bring it into line with the Constitution. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u143	I thank and ask my fellow Members not to mention the names of the national deputies who are not in the room at this time and are unable to accept the right of rep. I'm begging you! I made a note. Chernewsky. Since there is a draft decision authored by the Czernovetsk People’s Deputy of Inadmissibility, he has the right to base his project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u144	Highly esteemed Volodymyr Mikhailovich, high-ranking national deputies, radio listeners. I want to tell you that the bill itself, it fully fits the ideology of socialism and communism. And in this respect, it's right. So you can solve the country's problems only by two ways: either privatization or reprivatization. In this sense, I have no claim to the author of the bill. But I would like to remind you that the most evil decision of the former criminal authority was such a ban. And this bill is going to hit small businesses because they're working with big state-owned businesses that are just going to bankrupt them. When the time comes, they'll say, "Sorry, guys, you didn't know we have 25 percent of our government property, so move on." Moreover, this is totally contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine because all court decisions must be implemented. Thank you for your attention. That's why I want to think about it. That's a very serious question. In Ukraine, both pensioners and workers and entrepreneurs and all Ukrainian citizens should know that. There is a major problem: poor management of enterprises that work in the public sphere. There are very decent people out there. But their units. They're mostly working on their own pockets. The whole scheme of government enterprises that are damaging the State to tens of billions of dollars per year that could go towards the payment of pensioners' savings and other social benefits is as follows. Production by the State of understated cents, low-priced contracts with foreign bourgeois, pocket differences and distributions in the ministries and departments of the money, and shipping them to off-shore areas. The most important problem that can be addressed by the State Property Fund is to announce a competition for the best entrepreneurs, government managers. Bringing to them what we promised in the square during the revolution, bringing to them the percentages they earn. Then we will find people who will think of people in the Power. That's a very important subject. Therefore, please respect my ruling and thus the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss whether we can move on to making a decision? It is, isn't it? They signed up for the board. Please show me the names of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u146	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština It is known that the size of the state economy, of the state-owned enterprises, depends primarily on the proper and proper application of bankruptcy and liquidation mechanisms. In general, bankruptcy legislation seems to be changing more and more each day. Today, however, business leaders and arbitrators still face a host of problems. In the case of companies and state - owned enterprises, the courts have recently decided to declare bankruptcy and to open liquidation procedures, with at least 25 percent of the state’s statutory funds. Even though the laws in force prohibit the sale of property in the process of liquidation. But, as we can see in practice, deciding to accept bankruptcy leads to an end to productive activity. And this is not allowed to keep assets in connection with the absence of funds, although the law prohibits the sale of property in the process of liquidation, why is it that 11 sugar factories in Kirovgrad work only two, while the rest, like bankruptcys, are cut into scrap metal, which is cynical and vile. For example, the second month the manufacturers of the Salkovsky Sugar Factory stand a wall in defense of their factory so as not to let the “lords” put it on a scrap metal. And how much longer will the workers and their families stay in the cold? Regrettably, the authorities are also in a position to wait for the right moment, even though they have the right to legally prohibit the cutting of equipment, but it is evident that it is inconvenient. In the same way, sugar factories in Mali Vista, the Persecutors, the Charitables, and others disappeared. This is the so-called realisation of the assets of the bankruptcy by the method of the “national” elected presidents of Ukraine Kravczuk, Kuchma and Yushchenka. Thus, the amendments to article 1 of the Act are to protect the property rights and interests of the State, namely, to prohibit the courts from declaring bankruptcy and to open liquidation procedures for state enterprises and economic societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u147	Yes, Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys of the Julia Timoshenko Block, please have the right to speak. We're still getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u148	Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, the bill proposes to prohibit the courts of commerce from making decisions on the recognition of bankruptcy and the opening of liquidation procedures for state-owned enterprises and companies whose statutory funds account for at least 25% of the state's share. Since this law establishes a moratorium on the forced sale of property of listed enterprises, it does not limit the court’s decision on bankruptcy. Dear colleagues, if you look at the changes that colleagues are proposing before this bill, there is only one legal norm to supplement, except for the moratorium, it is proposed to prohibit the courts from making decisions on the recognition of bankruptcy and the opening of the liquidation procedure. And what's interesting is, to improve, as defined by the laws of Ukraine, the mechanism of enforcement of property, that is, until the mechanism is developed. I would like to remind you that by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of bills on improving procedures, restoring the ability of the borrower or recognizing his bankruptcy, and forcing him to implement it, is the first step towards such a mechanism. Since this is about imposing a moratorium and ban, I would like to make such an offer. Take into account the seven bills that are presented in this question, unite them into a pile, return them to the work and to the first rereading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u149	Yes, Vladimir Yeshchenko, a faction of Communists. Please. Prepare Alexia Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u150	Fucking Communist faction. In November 2001, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property aimed at ensuring the economic security of the State, preventing the destruction of entire assets of state enterprises, protecting the interests of the State while implementing the assets of statutory societies, with a share of the State of at least 25 percent. I'm going to say that a lot of businesses were expecting this law, first of all, that is, I'm fully supporting my colleague, Puzakov, the sugar industry. I've been here many times, and I've told you what the state of affairs is with the sugar industry in the Chercas region. And the Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Disposal of Real Estate Objects and Other Essential Productions, which are part of the whole single property complexes and enterprises that make up the production of sugar, was on the Committee on the Agricultural Complex, and then they pulled it out, and we voted for it, and we sent it to the President. What did President Yushchenko do? He vetoed and based this, as he wrote in his proposal, so this law, which I called to be considered, limits the right of owners of the listed objects of all forms of property, since the law does not establish any other, including private, property. So we have sugar factories -- about bankruptcy that was accepted back in 2000-2001, in 2002. It's a factory, the Rizhavsky Umansky district. I've already asked a few questions about these factories. I get the answer from Deputy Prime Minister Melnik, what is it, "we are now studying, we are going to do everything we can." But, Your Honor, we need to go to these factories and see what the situation is. In 2000, the former Prime Minister arrived in Shramkavka, and he was shown the Shramkian sugar plant to show that he was active and that he was already in bankruptcy. They lit the sky in a pipe because the pipe was visible far away. She's been drinking. And they put Kamaz with a sugar beet at the entrance of the plant. This is how the authorities show that such factories work. We don't have 11 factories operating in the 22nd, operating in Cherkaschi, operating in Soviet times in the Cherkas region. Therefore, this law should, first of all, allow for the possibility of avoiding what has been allowed before. This law is late. So we have to change the first part of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u151	Please turn on Alexia Malinowski’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u152	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Respectful colleagues may have no doubt that what we are discussing today is extremely relevant. Because we all understand that the bankruptcy system today is clearly focused on asset acquisition, ownership of state-owned enterprises. Therefore, it is necessary to accept it, and socialists will vote in favour of the bill. Because the other way out is to preserve what's in the state, it's impossible. I'd like to stay on the other side for a while. Today we are discussing what has always bothered socialists and our colleagues in the left camp. But I'm surprised when the chairman of the committee, one of the committee heads, is making political assessments of a decision or a decision in the form of what he advocates today. I would like to remind you that this is the morality that one of your representatives spoke of. And in general, I reiterate, the socialists will vote in favour of this law and ask it to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! We finished the discussion. One minute, please, Hinzburg, one minute, microphone. Then we ask, the government will say its position and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u154	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I just can't help but say, when we're considering this law, one very valuable thing. We're talking about saving state enterprises. I've just come across such a problem. It's being adopted by the Ministry of Defense. It's a decree to shorten the military. Then, throughout the year, documents are drawn up to transfer the entire military complex to municipal property. The whole year the military part is shot, it's all left, it's all stretched out, it's looted, and there's almost a transmission procedure going on for a year. Right now, I'd like to make an offer, if government officials listen to this, you just can't let that happen if we're so concerned about government property. We need parallel to the outcome of this state doctrine, us. or a decree, we must immediately make the decision to transfer this state property to the utility property immediately so that it is preserved or implemented somewhere else, or applied otherwise. And this 25 percent, or 100 percent, is all our property.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u155	I'm looking at Vladimir Cherniak written down here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u156	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we now have a situation where there has been a conflict between economic relevance and the Constitution. I am impressed by the legislator's intention to preserve state property, but this is done by banning commercial courts from making bankruptcy decisions and opening liquidation procedures. We'd rather have the courts of commerce be on guard over state property and not take bribes. In view of the fact that this is contrary to the Constitution – the Basic Law because the Basic Law states that the jurisdiction of the courts extends to all legal relations that arise in the state. So, how do we get out of this colossal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u157	Yes, all those who had the intention to speak took the floor. A minute more Chernewicki. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable radio audiences! I want to say this. It's a very noble idea to support businesses in general. And, in principle, there may be no public problems. All we have to do is establish the rules of the game. This is only the case if the rules of the game exist if the management of the public interest and the team in the results of their work then all vote unanimously in favour of such a law. Unless there are rules. And the public many businesses, including here in Kiev, have created lots of all kinds of parking facilities, for the GECOs and more, don't be. But if they're cheating there, for example, yes, but they have a 25 percent share of the state, then we can't talk about their responsibility because of what they're doing. I mean, it's all upside down. Let us first address this problem, after we, for example, appoint all representatives of the left-wing parties as factory and factory managers. But I trust them, they're good people. Then we can talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u159	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the introduction of a Moratorium on Industrial Realisation of Property. [[on the prohibition of bankruptcy decisions]] Registration number 7481. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:52:43]] For-83 Not accepted. Can we do it again first? Then it's rejected. Dear colleagues! I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Before that. Oh, sorry, sorry. Yeah, that's right. I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Montenegrin People's Deputy on the inadmissibility of this bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:53:44]] Z-77 The bill was rejected. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 2.2 of the Ukrainian Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Anatoliyovich, into the National Block of Lithuania. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being complied with. [[on the Centre for the Improvement of Children]] Registration number 7741. Reported by National Deputy Feldman Alexander Borisovich. Get ready for the Musiyaki committee. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Draft Law 7741 provides for re-subordination from the adoption centre of the Ministry of Science and Education to the Ministry of Family Affairs and Sports Youth. On the one hand, this is a technical draft law, as the Family Code and the Civil and Procedural Code are being amended on the basis of Act 2342 of January 2005. On the other hand, the bill provides for a difficult resubordination of the adoption centre and for a new quality of working with the most disadvantaged children. In other words, the draft law establishes a new name and a new meaning for the body: a body, a government body for the administration of adoption and the protection of the rights of children will be created instead of the adoption centre. For the first time, we are talking about the State body protecting children and taking responsibility for the rights of orphans, including those adopted. The changes started last year. In cooperation with the Ministry of Family and Youth, a draft law on the institutional and legal protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care has been implemented. The whole system of child care, care and adoption will be reformed. This involves giving each child a family, not a boarding school. We have not been able to establish a civil liability system for abandoned children over the years. Instead, it is necessary to establish a system of interest for our citizens in the adoption of children and a system to combat social poverty, which is of great scale. Today, there are more disadvantaged children in our country than there are since the civil war. Juvenile Services will be renamed and reoriented to protect the rights of children. In the end, the number of workers who deal with orphans and children deprived of parental care will be increased. This will improve work separately with each child. Please support Bill 7741. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u161	Thank you. What shall we vote on? Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the adoption of children. Registration number 7741. Please vote. For children and daughters, sons and daughters. [[13:57:04]] For 261 Copy that. Can we take it in general? The committee's offering to accept. I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law. Please vote. Make it less orphans. Vote. [[13:57:33]] For 283 Thank you. We have come to this law for a long time, but we finally accepted it. Yes, the following laws are in our judicial system. But Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko asked us to look at them later. Important, but a reporter. A draft Act on the addition to article 37-1 of the Ukrainian State Service Act is under consideration. [[on Recalculation of Pensions]] Registration number 7627. Reports Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, this bill deals with the actual situation that has arisen. The bottom line is this. In a further increase in salaries for civil servants, under all equal conditions, people working in different ministries and departments and public administrations receive different pensions. [[internships, services, posts and everything else]] Everything depends on how a ministry pays a pension. A bonus. And we get the situation, for example, that the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, after the first-January wage hike this year, had to reduce the pension of existing retirees by 30-40 per cent. My bill assumes that regardless of how wages are paid at the moment in a ministry and department from which they are formed, pensions should be the same. All of it. Everything else is conditionality.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, from the State Building Committee. And now we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Hersonian. The idea of the Bill of People's Deputies of Nadrag and Vaschuk is good. However, on September 21, 2005, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting a bill on the recalculation of pensions, which is proposed to amend the procedure for recalculation of public officials'pensions in order to prevent a reduction in the amount of pensions. During the discussion of the matter at a committee meeting, members of the committee made a number of substantive remarks to the bill. In particular, regarding the inadequacy of the definition of specific constituents of the civil servant's earnings in the law, since the question of paying for the work of this category of working persons is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, pursuant to article 33 of the Law on State Service, the disagreement between the rules of the Bill of Individuals, the uncertainty of the scope and the sources of the additional costs of the State Budget in the case of the adoption of a bill that does not comply with the requirements of part two of the Sixth, Second, Seventh, Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 27 of the Code of Budget for Ukraine. And at the end of the resolution of the bill, the matter was essentially a matter for the Cabinet of Ministers to decide. In view of what has been said, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, while not supporting the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on the adoption of the bill on the basis and agreeing with the comments made to it by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Chief of Staff of Ukraine, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill in its first reading as one that has lost its relevance in connection with the adoption of Cabinet Decision No. 646 of July 2005. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Shall we vote? I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law on Supplementing Article 37-1 of the National Service Act, registration number 7627. [[on Recalculation of Pensions]] [[2:02:03]] For-43 Well, I think the result is clear. The factions? Please. By factions, please, by factions. The bill was rejected. Communists, “Ukraine’s Regions” – Zeros, National Party – 17, “Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 1, Socialists, Ukrainian People’s Party, Social Democrats – 0, National Block Lithuania – 18, “Trust of the People”, “Reforms and Order” – Zeros, “Ukrainian One” – 4, National Movement of Ukraine, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – Zero, Postfactional – 3. The bill was rejected. Yes, dear colleagues, let's adopt in the first reading a draft of the Law on Amendments to the Basics of Ukrainian Law on Culture in order to preserve culture. [[on the elimination of children's institutions]] I'm betting on the first-reading vote. We're voting friendlyly. [[14:03:10]] For 211 Dear colleagues, a little relaxed. Mobilize. I put it to a vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Fundamentals of Ukrainian Legislation on Culture. [[on the liquidation of active establishments]] Both the P.I. and the Scientific and Scientific Chief Executives are proposing to support it in the first reading. Please vote. Let's finish this meeting in a timely fashion. Vote more friendlyly. [[14:03:51]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, all that we have indicated for today, you and I have worked hard. So thank you for your cooperation. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Our next job is at 15 hours of parliamentary hearings dedicated to cooperation between Ukraine and Germany, and work on committees, factions and parliamentary groups. Tomorrow morning’s session will begin at ten o’clock. Good luck.
