ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:15]] Registered -415 There were 415 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, One Alexander Josephovich. He was 45 years old. Let's welcome him and wish him well. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the departure of Ukrainian national deputies Eudochemov Valerija Alexandrovich and Lisina Mikoli Pavlovich from the Socialist Party of Ukraine's Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let us see what the reason for blocking the rostrum is. What needs to be done to unlock the rostrum, and we continue our work. I don't see the need for advice. Where's the application? There's no such thing as a statement, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u2	So then you tell me what reason you want to take a break, and then we'll consider the next question. I don't know what this is about. If we vote on that decision like you say it, let's do it. So then you are. Yes, your honorary colleagues, two factions -- the Social-Democratic Ukraine faction, as well as the "Regions of Ukraine" -- require a recess, either to make a statement. [[united]] Please make an application. The two factions -- the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, as well as the parties of the "Regions of Ukraine" -- demanded a 30-minute recess. [[united]] Now they're going to make a statement that called for a break. And then we'll continue to determine, make the right decisions. Please, Vladimir Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u3	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished representatives of the media! We asked 30 minutes for a recess to hold a coordination council with a view to putting into order the day-to-day issue outlined in the draft decision that was tabled yesterday under the signatures of the National Deputies of Bogatyrov and Vladimir Hare on the settlement of the issue of the detention and arrest of John Rizak, the ex-governor of the Zakarpatsky region, as well as the heads of the Donetsk District Council, also now "ex", Boris Koleznikova. We wanted to ask the Coordinating Board, but if we can do that directly in the session room, put this issue in order of day first, report it, consider it essentially, and if we adopt that draft decision that we are going to propose for consideration, we are ready to continue to engage in the work of the session room as part of that project that is approved today. Until this issue is considered, our position on the work in the session room remains unchanged and will be an extension of our conduct line that took place yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u4	Yes, Your Honor, the position of two factions to your knowledge is proven. In view of the need to adjust work and make urgent decisions, I would like to ask you to consider a proposal that has just been made. This is to include in the agenda a daily draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine. If we include it, then the project's authors will give us a little bit of information, and then we have to get the Supreme Council to decide on the decision. That's it. Is there no warning against such an act? Please, let's log in, three minutes to exchange thoughts on this. Please. Dear colleagues, you will be able to block the rostrum. Please have a seat. No one will break the rules. Please, Yuri Orobec, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to stop pushing the prosecutor, stop pushing the investigators. John Rizak — a well - known governor who held the Mukatov elections, where a mass of national deputies, such as governors, ministers, and health ministers, were beaten. He fell in love with a gang of 300 guns in his territory. This gang was arrested at Avantgard Stadium. I personally recognized the gang’s work in the election. I was brutally beaten. It's a person involved in mass forgeries in elections, public order violations, abuse of power. All of these crimes have to be investigated, and there's nothing to be done by the FDA that led this gang to press for investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u6	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u7	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I support the proposal of two factions to put into the order of the day the question of these two people who were called here. The thing is, when I'm in different regions of Ukraine, I always hear from people that all those who voted for another candidate are being persecuted. It's totally unacceptable. Yeah, yeah, well, shame on whoever's doing it. And let's talk about it and we'll make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u8	National Deputy Turmanov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u9	I would like to take the floor to my colleague on the Pecklusenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u10	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u11	Alexander Pecklusenko, "Regions" faction, Zaporozhye district. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I draw your attention to the geography of political persecution: Odessa, Simferopol, Donetsk, Sevastopol, Yalta, Zacarpatje. Tell me who else needs to be planted, tell me who else needs to be shut down so that society, the public and parliament can ask the prosecutor why Kolesnikov is sitting, why Kolesnikov is sitting, where you please have your facts. Therefore, until Kolesnikov is released until Rezak is released, our factions will block the rostrums. We demand one thing: justice and justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u12	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u13	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Of course, Parliament should be informed about the demands of fellow national MPs. But the faction of the Socialist Party comes from what we need, it is imperative that we examine the oil products immediately in this room today. What is happening in the state today is not within any bounds at all. It's all stopped. What we're talking about might end up very sad for Ukraine, for Ukraine's economy. That's why we'd like, if colleagues are asking, to hear information about the issue they've raised, but we need to talk about it immediately, and we need to talk about the issue of oil supply in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision, registration number 7493, on the application to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:13:58]] For 184 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 5, "Ukraine" - 48, People's Party - 25, SPU - 17, Block Timoshenko - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU - 20, "The only Ukraine" - 9, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 14, "The Union - 7, non-fractional - 15. A break of 30 minutes is announced. In 10 hours, 45 minutes, the heads of MPs and factions, please meet in the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats, we'll continue our work. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues! Let me inform you of the outcome of our agreements during the meetings of the Conciliation Board. We agreed that we would have to consider three questions and make the appropriate decisions today in 14 hours and 30 minutes: this is our planned issue, which is foreseen on Government Day; the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Attorney General of Ukraine, as well as information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the situation in the oil market and the adoption of the relevant decision in the form of Ukrainian law. We agreed that we would not take a break because we had run out of time for a break. We agreed on this order of action, please note: first, we will now return to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine. In case of your support, the question of including it in the agenda will be put to the vote. After that, we will vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the situation in the oil market and on the inclusion in the agenda of the relevant decision in the form of the draft Law. After 1.5 hours, we will consider the planned issue of Ukraine's entry into world trade information, and then we will consider for 15 minutes the question of the appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine. And within 45 minutes, we'll listen to the information and discuss the draft decision in the form of the Law and make the appropriate decision to stabilize the situation in the oil market. There are no warnings about such a proposal by the Conciliation Council? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, please calm down. So now we're going to vote the decision, and then we're going to figure it out for a minute. Well, we vote for the inclusion of issues in the agenda, Julia Volodymyrna. I am voting for a motion to return to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7493, to refer the matter to the Attorney General of Ukraine for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:14:06]] For 283 We have returned to the consideration of the matter. Now I ask your attention, now I am putting to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the application to the Attorney General of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7493]] About getting into the daytime. [[11:14:42]] For 291 Decision taken. Questions are included in the agenda. I am now voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the situation in the oil market and on the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on the stabilization of prices in the oil market. Please vote. [[11:15:27]] For 342 Decision taken. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the time that we are offering to consider these issues: the question of the progress of Ukraine's entry into the WTO -- an hour and a half -- to consider the draft regulation -- in 15 minutes, and the question of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the situation in the oil market, and the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on the stabilization of prices in the oil market -- 45 minutes. [[Registration number 7493]] Thus, within 14 hours, we consider and make appropriate decisions. No warning? None. Please, the prime minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I thank all the national deputies for including the issue in the agenda, which has to do with the situation in the oil market. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you to consider this question before the WTO, because part of the government will have to go to a big meeting that is about the problem in the oil market. I would very much like, after voting, to ask the Attorney-General to ask the second question about the market in petroleum products and to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, that is exactly the kind of offer I made during the meeting of the Conciliation Council. But all my colleagues, without exception, I would like to point out that everyone, without exception, told me that I should follow the Rules. The first question we're going to consider is the WTO. The second issue that we're going to consider is the draft decision. And the third question is oil. But we agreed that we would make that decision by 2 p.m. What should I vote on? Dear colleagues, I have put to the vote proposals that have been reached on the Conciliation Council. If we want to break down and not make any decisions, let's vote differently. But it was a difficult compromise that we had achieved. It's being announced before the government day -- about the move to take action on Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. Such rules of procedure are proposed. For information to the government within 15 minutes, 30 minutes on a question to the reporter, written and directly from the national MPs, up to 10 minutes from the profile committee, the rest of the time, within an hour and a half, to discuss the problem. No warning? Please. The report invites the Minister of Economics and European Integration, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u18	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would ask once again on behalf of the government and on behalf of the Prime Minister before asking a rather difficult and interesting question about the World Trade Organisation to allocate 10 minutes to solve all issues concerning the oil market. I can report it in five minutes all the exhibitions, all the price dynamics, and so forth. The hall can also vote in this kind of thesis mode. So there is a request to consider now the question of the market in petroleum products.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u19	And once again, I would like to say, dear colleagues, that there is the Rules and Procedure of the Supreme Council. We've reached a compromise and don't control me, please. You don't want to report it, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u20	I want to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u21	And I want to do it again. Report on the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u22	Okay. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished participants in Government Day, as you know, 95 percent of all international trade is carried out among 148 WTO member countries. The remaining five percent are almost entirely divided among players such as Ukraine, Russia, Kazakhstan, Iran, and Algeria. Compared with other global organizations such as the UN, IMF, the IBRD, the WTO has considerable limitations on its activities of resources and personnel. The SAT performs three main functions. The first is the venue for negotiations on the establishment of rules for global trade in goods and services; the second is the depositary of international agreements on rules and standards for international exchange. And the third is the role of international arbitration in disputes between countries. In doing so, countries that do not belong to this organization are effectively deprived of the right to defend the interests of public or private exporters. Ukraine’s introduction to the World Trade Organization is an important factor in deepening economic reforms and adopting a socially oriented innovative model for economic development. The introduction to the organization will ensure an additional increase in GDP to two percentage points per year, an increase in exports of produce to two billion US dollars, an increase in business income to nearly eight billion US dollars, and an annual increase in the volume of foreign direct investment to two billion US dollars. And for that, creating new jobs, increasing the income of the population, filling the budgets of all levels, and eventually implementing the government's "Meet People" program. Only the overall positive impact on the income of the Ministry of Economics will reach three billion dollars a year. Membership of the organization will reduce the tariff and non-tariff restrictions on access of Ukrainian goods to the most important commodity markets in the developed countries of the world, and thus increase foreign exchange revenues from high-processing exports of domestic products, obtaining the most favourable trade regime with WTO member countries, i.e. at the same time improving trading conditions with 148 countries in the world, which are said to be more than 95 per cent of the trade, applying to the SOTO trade dispute resolution mechanism, which will allow for the strengthening of the position of Ukrainian producers in anti-dumping and special investigations and preventing the loss of Ukrainian producers from introducing anti-dumping and special measures on the part of other countries that make up more than one billion United States dollars today. In some cases, the liberalisation of the import tariff as part of the entry into WTO is disturbing, but after analysing the structure of the 2004 customs payments, it has to be noted that only 31 percent of the imports are subject to the duty. On the other hand, bringing a national import tariff in line with the commitments made in Ukraine’s introduction to WTO is an internal need for the country’s economy, supported by the fight against smuggling, corruption and increased budget revenues. I would like to stress in particular that Ukraine's accession to the WTO significantly strengthens the legal protection of the internal market and national producers will not only become defenseless, as anyone might think, against powerful and competitive cross-border corporations and foreign producers, but will have reliable protection against unfair competition, which is effectively used within the WTO. In order to protect the internal market, there remains a temporary increase in tariffs, non-tariff measures, or so - called quotas, and sanitation. It is also legitimate within the WTO to apply restrictive measures against dumped and mass imports. There is already a positive experience in Ukraine of applying anti-dumping legislation, which in general meets the requirements of the WTO and has already confirmed its effectiveness in preparing for entry into the WTO period. In addition, the introduction to the WTO is a key prerequisite for integration into the European Union, the creation of a free trade zone between Ukraine and the EU. I would like to briefly focus on the positive impact of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO in a separate area of the national economy, such as industry. The main positive effects in the industry since Ukraine's acquisition of WTO membership will be: first, to boost production in export-oriented sectors as a result of the liberalisation of the regime of access to external markets; second, to increase the volume of foreign investment needed for the technological re-arming of engineering, metallurgical, chemical, light and other industries, to move to the production of goods of higher value added. Increasing foreign investment in the metallurgical complex is essential. To date, the weariness of the medical devices is up to 60 percent, making the problem of technological rearms the most relevant. The involvement of foreign investment will allow for the export of more quality products with higher value added. Third: the possibility of liberalising quotas for exports of Ukrainian metallurgy to the European Union and other WTO member countries. According to a previous estimate, only by removing quantitative restrictions is it possible to increase the export volume of this product to EU countries by about US$ 150 to 180 million per year, i.e. to increase the total export volume of black metallurgy to the EU by about 30 per cent. The same is true of markets in China and the United States. Agriculture. The main positive effects for the agricultural sector since Ukraine's acquisition of WTO membership can be: the promotion of technological upgrading and the re-arming of national production according to world standards, the revitalization of export-oriented industries, including the APC, as a result of the liberalisation of the regime of access to external markets. You know very well that agrarian production is the most sensitive product in international trade, and unfortunately, Ukraine is not properly represented according to its capacity in the world's agricultural production market. Expansion of production in export-oriented industries Excuse me. Accelerating structural reforms in the agricultural sector. Structural priorities will be determined by the potential of the competitiveness of industries and businesses in the external markets, and simplification of access procedures for these markets will accelerate structural changes: expansion of the range and quality of food products offered in the market, lowering their price, which is positive for consumers. What is important is that WTO rules do not provide for the abolition of subsidies for agriculture but simply require the introduction of a ceiling for state subsidies. In the accession negotiations, Ukraine stands for an internal state support of $1.14 billion. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} A year that we haven't chosen, as far as you know, from the state budget. There is a much lower level of government support for agriculture in Ukraine than in developed countries. And while Ukraine has to limit the use of reduced subsidies, it can accordingly increase the use of permitted subsidies, such as funding for research, education, advisory and marketing programmes, the creation of state reserves for food security, insurance and income security, disaster relief payments, structural reconstruction aid, payments for environmental protection programmes and regional aid programmes. We have the shortest deadlines to increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of State support in this important area. Allow me to briefly pause the negotiating process of Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Today, 30 bilateral protocols have been signed by Ukraine and reports have been received that there are no requirements for Ukraine from two member countries. In bilateral market access negotiations, more than 95 tariff positions have been agreed upon. Unagreed positions consist mainly of duty rates for particularly sensitive goods for Ukraine, mainly the salt sector. Negotiations on access to the service market in Ukraine are at the final stage. Talks have been completed with most of the member countries. On March 22, this year, the 14th official meeting of the working group took place in Geneva to consider Ukraine's application to join the WTO, a multilateral meeting on agriculture and a round of bilateral negotiations on access to markets in goods and services. The agenda of the working group was to review the draft report. The draft report is 70 percent aligned. Some chapters provide additional information and clarification. The most important results of the multilateral and bilateral negotiations can be seen as support for the head of the General Council of the WTO, the Director General of the WTO, the Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the WTO, the head of the working group as soon as possible for the conclusion of the negotiations on the acquisition of membership in the WTO and the inclusion in the agenda of the WTO Ministerial Conference in Hong Kong in December 2005 of the accession of Ukraine to the organization, the decision to hold the next official meeting of the working group in September this year, and consideration of the issue of the approval of the report of the working group in September this year. The role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the process of our State's accession to the WTO is crucial, since one of the challenges is to ensure the adoption of amendments to the reform legislation in line with the WTO requirements. Important examples of constructive government cooperation, the Supreme Council and the adoption of the Law of Ukraine amending the State Budget and some other legislative acts in the area of tax evasion, the adoption of changes to the Customs Tariff, and the creation of non-discriminatory business conditions for all business subjects. Dear National Deputies! We are faced with a complex task of ensuring Ukraine's entry into the WTO by the end of 2005, which can be addressed through concerted action by the government and the Supreme Council. In doing so, the basic laws of the Supreme Council are to be adopted during May-July this year. The government has been set up for fruitful cooperation with Parliament and coordination with a view to adopting a number of important bills. Taking into account the current situation of problematic issues that impede the completion of the WTO accession negotiation process, I consider it necessary to adopt the following laws by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the end of July 2005: to abolish export subsidies; to reduce, starting with the entry into force of Ukraine into the WTO of export duties with transitional duties, clearly, a period of up to 10 years; to tax businesses and support and social standards of their workers; to eliminate the requirement of mandatory exports of sugar produced from imported hearts; to amend the A, B, C system; to review the last two quotas; and to review customs approaches to waste and waste. black metals; reducing the number of products subject to mandatory certification; implementing legislation to the requirements of a multilateral agreement on The commercial aspects of intellectual property rights without the substantial support of this process by the Supreme Council, without the adoption of relevant laws aimed at harmonising national legislation, the entry into the WTO in 2005 during the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference, is virtually impossible. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to supporting the Ukrainian Parliamentary Corps. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u23	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for Sergio Anatoliovich, and there is a written question. Let's make a deal: one in writing, one in the national MP. Please write, Sergey Anatoliyovich, while the MPs are being recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u24	European Integration Committee. Questions about the composition of the delegation of Yuri Karmazin, the Party of Fatherland Defenders, the Solidarity of the Ukrainian electoral bloc in bilateral negotiations with the countries of the working group, as well as the composition of the working group and the delegation from Ukraine at the meetings held in 2004-2005? The composition of the delegation from Ukraine's entry into the WTO in 2004 was approved by the President of Ukraine's order for the Ukrainian delegation to negotiate Ukraine's entry into the WTO since 21 June 2004 No. 148. To date, a draft presidential decree has been drafted to execute the Prime Minister's mandate to approve the new personal composition of the delegation in the negotiations on Ukraine's accession to the WTO. The working group considers Ukraine’s applications to 42 countries, members of the WTO, taking into account the new EEU warehouse. Well, I don't think there's any point in counting all these 42 countries. The number of member countries in the working group is 42. Today, 30 bilateral protocols for access to the market for goods have been signed. These include: access to the market for goods and services with Canada, South Korea, Latvia, India, Hungary, EEU, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Cuba, Brazil, Poland, Thailand, Switzerland, Paraguay, Argentina, Turkey. To the goods market: Mexico, Uruguay, New Zealand, Slovenia, Georgia, Bulgaria, Israel, Estonia, Malaysia, Lithuania, Sri Lanka, Honduras, the Dominican Republic and Mongolia. Negotiations with 19 countries are under way, negotiations with Romania and Morocco are completed, official confirmation of acceptance of tariff obligations is received and not initiated with Armenia. The country’s position is based on the conclusion of a multilateral negotiating process without entering into two foreign negotiations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u25	Blackwolf, faction of our Ukraine. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Hennadovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u27	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u28	Thank you, Alexander, for the word. Mr. Secretary, I think you've prepared quite a bit to hear this issue of importance to Ukraine in the Supreme Council. And this is evidenced by the fact that you've made almost every page of this very big note. And this indicates that you too may be in favor of Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. But in October 1994, the then foreign minister, a very respectable and respectable person, stated that somewhere in early 1995 we would join the WTO. It's been 10 years. Today you say that it is likely that the entrance to the SATs will be misled and accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u30	The question was whether you believe we will enter this year. I hope so. I believe. I hope that the Supreme Council will help both itself and the country and the government to adopt those 5 percent of the unagreed positions in the laws that we have left to regulate. Over the past 10 years, we have adjusted 95 positions that have prevented Ukraine from entering the international community and which are now these 148 countries that are members of the WTO.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u31	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u32	Letters. What mechanisms have been developed and implemented to take into account bilateral agreements in the process of joining the WTO? The question needs clarification. In our view, this issue concerns signed bilateral protocols as part of Ukraine's entry into WTO. At the final stage, these bilateral protocols will form a single common document that will include bilateral negotiations and signed protocols on market access. The principle of operation of such a document will be as follows. This concession, which is the most liberal among these signed protocols, will extend to all 148 WTO member countries. For example, if in the negotiation process Ukraine agreed with the EU on a 15 per cent reduction in the duty rate for individual goods, and suppose with the United States up to 20 per cent, a 15 per cent lower tariff proposal for Ukraine will be in place within the WTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u33	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, I understand it's very important to address this issue, that we will not benefit from changing the base threshold to the latest with the support of agriculture. I also understand that the change in the quota for the export of black metal or metal scrap metal and the permission for the export of colored metals, the intake of undisputed cheese, and the export of oil to the sunflower or sunflower seeds. I'm interested in something else. I really can't understand one very simple thing. Why do some countries say that we should withdraw from the scientific educational institutions the citizenship of Ukraine, which will lead our educational institutions? Why have we come to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u35	Yeah, that's a very interesting question. It refers to access to services markets, including educational ones. It is meant that national legislation can set strict requirements for teachers and professors, that is, for those who will be in direct contact with a child or a student. However, managers who do not even have a professor’s education can manage such educational institutions. You know that. This is a manager who is not a teacher. So it is noted that without the permission of such an official to participate in the educational process, we can agree. Clearly, there cannot be a removal of these requirements for a teacher. That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u36	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u37	"Expectations, forward-looking deadlines for the conclusion of bilateral negotiations and the conclusion of the working group on Ukraine's accession to the WTO?" I have already said in part that during the 14 working group meetings, the main ways of completing the negotiation process were identified. We will hold an informal working group meeting in June 2005 and the next 15 official working group meetings in September of this year. Multi-party meetings on health and phytosanitary measures on technical regulation of agriculture and several rounds of bilateral negotiations on access to goods and services markets by July 2005 to address systemic issues and to conclude all bilateral negotiations. And under the conditions of implementation of all commitments, the possibility of incorporating the issue of the WTO agenda of the sixth conference in Hong Kong is being considered. I can say that about 40 employees of the Ministry of Economics, only the Ministry of Economics are now in negotiations with the member countries of the working group, with 42 member countries of the working group in Ukraine. And they're going to continue this work for a long time and they're only going to finish it in a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u38	Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u39	Dear reporter, I have two references to the national centers of Ukraine. This is the National Forum of Ukrainian Trade Unions and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions who are asking for the attention of the national MPs, the government for that caution. If we go to the WTO, it's going to be a reduction in new jobs, it's going to be a big migration, it's going to be unemployment, it's going to be a decline, it's going to be the spread of poverty. Why? Because until now the government has not developed a program to adapt each sector and every region to the WTO. Light industry lies down, our agriculture dies, and much more. So first of all, I want you to answer now, is there really a government programme for proactive measures for the social protection of Ukrainian citizens? Second, do you consider it necessary to ratify the WTO, to ratify the European Social Charter, where there is great social protection, and to ratify the European Social Security Code? Failure to do so will result in negative results.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u40	You know, before you ask these questions, you have to operate on numbers and trends, not facts. So in the question, you know, if there's an answer to that question, it's very difficult for me to answer that question. I would like to point out that the Ministry and other central authorities have analysed and assessed the possible impact of the entry into WTO in the field of industry and agriculture in the field of transport and communications, PEC and other sectors of the economy, and the level of employment in these areas. The report was discussed during parliamentary hearings and on the Government Day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a year and a half ago, which resulted in the decision to recommend parliamentary hearings on the state of preparation for Ukraine's entry into WTO and on the Cabinet's progress in implementing measures for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, which we use, among other things. The results of the survey were used in consultations with WTO member countries on access to the market for goods and services. The report was also sent separately to Minpraci to calculate the social consequences of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO on the basis of economic consequences to the economic sectors. So the state Employment Centre of Minpraci, with the participation of the Intellectual Perspective and the Institute of Rural Development last year, conducted an analysis of the social economic consequences of joining the WTO, including a change in the labour market, the overall impact on economic and average citizens, who found their reflection in the Social and Economic Consequences of Ukraine's accession to the WTO. Expert grades." Among other things, this report was given to every deputy at the end of last year. In addition, a number of scientific organizations, including the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and projects for international technical assistance, measures to improve the competitiveness of domestic producers, the prevention of possible negative socio-economic consequences, are the competence of relevant ministries and other central bodies. So Minprompolitics and Minagropolitics have developed programs to train businesses to work under the conditions of Ukraine’s membership in the SOTA system. In order to ensure the development of the main sectors of the Minprompolitics, a number of programmes and measures to increase the competitiveness of industrial enterprises have been developed and implemented. Similar programs and measures have already been developed and implemented by MINAgropolitics, the Ministry of Health, the National Bank of Ukraine, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u41	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u42	Catherine Vaschuk, People’s Party Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, you have stopped separately, what will be the impact on the agricultural sector since the WTO entry. I'd like to get an answer to the following question: why is this low grant allowed by the APC, when compared to small Poland, it's six orders higher, six times higher for small Poland than for Ukraine. And the second. We don't have certified products today. You say they'll move west. We need to do more than a thousand kinds of certification. It takes a lot of money and time. And aren't we going to turn Ukraine into a market, not an internal market: we're going to be driven, not driven? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u43	Thank you. A very important issue in the context of agrarian politics, the general agricultural policy, and not so much within the context of contact with the World Trade Organization, but how much internal agrarian policy. Why is there such a level of subsidies? We took, as far as you know, the basic period of 1996-1998, where there was the highest level of support for the village in recent years at that course that existed again and again during that period. This is an adequate amount of about nine and a half billion. For a year. Unfortunately, some countries with which we have very difficult negotiations, I'm not going to call them for diplomatic reasons, insist on moving the base period for a longer number, where it falls about twice. We don't agree with this approach and we stand for this base period -- nine and a half billion -- that gives us annual support. Regarding the question of comparison with Poland. There's a little confusion. Because in Poland, these compensatory grants were allocated not by the internal budget and not by the WTO, because the WTO does not have a budget, but by the budget of the European Union, as compensatory measures for the removal of any customs duties in general when entering the Customs Union within the framework of the Single Economic Area within the European Union. When Poland joined the WTO, it had the same transition periods, the same levels of subsidies existed a little less than we suggest. And about market access. Dear Catherine Timofievna, you know very well that this week we will be talking about tariff proposals for the first and twenty-fourth group. You know very well that we haven't really given up on those positions that were fully aligned with the agrarian representatives. And these positions we're going to stand for at the entrance to the WTO. We won't change them. What's more, on certification issues, let's say we take large transition periods, adaptation periods, up to 10-12 years! In order, you say, not to open up the internal market without its previous preparation for normal competition. We have to make equal competition. And then we'll make decisions about opening borders.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u44	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u45	You know, a lot of questions, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, are duplicating. I'll miss some, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u46	All right, go ahead. Is the government’s work market forecasting? This has already been said. Agrarian sector. Let's do it orally then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u47	People's deputies. Dmitri Rudkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u48	I ask you to pass the word to Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u49	Mikola Rudzkowski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u50	Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! Please tell us what is necessary for Ukraine to reduce the average import tariff rates to, let's say, 5.5 at a time when Poland today has 9.9; Hungary 6.9, and we're moving so fast in that direction? Look, in principle, we wanted to make zero bets on agricultural production from an easy hand. Only the opposition of the hall led, as it were, to constructive work. In those changes to the Customs Tariff, which the government has re-applied, for example, is producing wallpaper products in Ukraine, we input 10 percent of the import duty into raw materials, and zero bets on finished products, and so on. Would this not lead to an end to Ukrainian production, as with easy industry, and what steps should be taken to avoid it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Rudzkowski! It cannot be installed in such a way that, let's say, Poland, which was in the working group in Ukraine with regard to the entry into the WTO, would have different rates for Ukrainian products, and Ukraine would have lower rates for Polish. The main principle of wagering is the equivalence of rates, both for exports and for imports between the member countries of the working group of Ukraine. So you have the wrong information, we have all the same bets. It's about opening markets. But nobody's going to open markets. We are looking for a compromise between removing all restrictions on Ukrainian exports to the markets of WTO member countries. Today, I'm telling you again, what ideology, I've talked about this briefly, but what's going on, why do we need this SAT? For two reasons: today, compensation duties, anti-dumping procedures, simple quotas, and we cannot go beyond internal procedures, not through external procedures, resisting such unfair competition. Well, let's remember, let's face it, let's remember the behavior of the European Union on textiles and pipes, the behavior of the United States on selicate and metal products, the behavior of the Russian Federation, by the way, on the same pipes and so on, and the removals there on sugar, on the duck and so on. There is nothing we can do until we have entered, accessed WTO, and adopted arbitration rules for the resolution of such disputes. That's what this is about. So in order for us to access the WTO, we need to find a compromise of interest, but without giving in to the national interests of our manufacturers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u52	Andrew Schlell, Faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u53	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter, of course, I am thinking of discussing whether to join Ukraine in WTO or not? It is, I'll tell you, quite complimentary, because we understand perfectly that the Ukrainian economy will not survive without being integrated into the world, the world economy. So one question I have is, how much Ukrainian goods are definitely protected, I'd like to make that sound again. Because the main argument for opponents of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO is that the Ukrainian producer will be destroyed by, let us say, inequitable competition. I actually think that competition can be, either there is or there isn't. And whether it's quality or not, it'll be decided by now, I'm sure, by Ukraine. So I'd like that to be true again, not just the agricultural producer, but the producer in general, how much is he going to be protected in this situation, and what is the Ukrainian manufacturer's introduction to the WTO, what are the benefits, what are the downsides? I'm sure it's positive, of course, more, but I still wanted it to sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u54	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat two digits, average. I'm sorry, 31 per cent of the turnover of imports in general today have zero rates of duty, 31 per cent. It's in customs. If you look at the trade in general, with free trade agreements in mind, we have about 60 percent of the trade does not pay the price at all. What are we talking about? Regarding the reduction of total customs load. Eight percent on average. What are we talking about? Regarding the protection of a domestic manufacturer. Any unfair competition that is today can be severely punished today. Why do we all forget about such a wonderful mechanism as anti-dumping persecution, setting up compensatory duties, installing anti-supply drugs, closing targeted imports. All these powers are in the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. Many MPs come to me and say: And what to do about the deamped supply, let's say, the horseshoes in Ukraine won't tell me which country. I'm saying, guys, you don't have to change the customs tariff. Let's get some papers. We're going to make a decision and we're going to take a huge toll on them until they place a normal price to compete with. That's the same thing, let's say. We pumped four countries. Normally now, three Ukrainian factories were supported. They're normally competing. Come on, I urge you, distinguished national MPs, where there are examples of unfair competition, demilitarized supply, go to the government, give these testimony, and we will punish them. We have the entire legislative framework for this. Thus, there will be no problem with discrimination against a national manufacturer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u55	John the Rabbit instead of Nasalik. Your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u56	Mr. Secretary, I have a few questions for you. First. The Ukrainian economy is incomplete and weak, especially vulnerable to agriculture. Therefore, a transitional so - called adaptation period for a whole range of productions is critical for Ukraine. I'm asking you to tell us more about the adaptation period. What kind of production has Ukraine succeeded in achieving this period? Second question. After entering the WTO, Ukrainian authorities will have to protect the internal market with so - called nontariff methods of trade regulation. It's standardization, veterinary requirements, quotas. What preliminary steps have been taken or are planned by the government in this area of state economic regulation? I especially stress this issue because I know how stubborn the government does not want to introduce quotas for imports of meat or sugar. Please give me the answer to these two questions. And the third is administrative management. Do they contribute to the entrance to the WTO, which is now widely practiced by the government? Administration is simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u57	Let's start with the last question. The government does not follow administrative management methods. The government responds to the proper behaviour of companies that violate fair competition rules. So I would ask you not to ask such questions to the government. Regarding adaptation periods. There are, indeed, sensitive, especially in agriculture, sensitive productions. Like the production of sugar, the meat-milk production, the raw materials, and so on. There are eight positions in which the Ukrainian delegation establishes different transition periods depending on the negotiations with MinAPK and the Ukrainian market entities and the possibility of concessions by the WTO member countries. So the biggest periods are set to 12 years. It's about liberalizing the sugar market. And so by the time we're eight years old, let's say, and so on. Over the years, I hope Ukraine will make sufficient infrastructure changes to compete with the global economy. Regarding non-tariff measures. That's a very good question. You know, government structures that are now responsible for standardization, certification, in the past, have focused more on where to take more money for something there, you know, measures, not to protect the internal market. Today we plan and have the Prime Minister's mandate, we plan to introduce a new programme to develop a certification system, standardization, to adapt it to international standards, to change the rules of veterinary, hygiene, phytosanitary and so on, other types of control. And this program goes hand in hand with our progress towards the World Trade Organization, the development of this. And about quotas. Once again, I would like to stress that quotas can only be set as a safeguard against unfair or unfair competition. If competition is found to be subsidised, the supply of goods is subsidized or depreciated, or imports are directed, then a set of non-tariff restrictions, including tariff restrictions, including quotas, can be applied. Just setting quotas like this is a violation of the general rules of competition. I'd like to read it in writing if I could.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u58	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u59	"The ratio of the number of complex administrative protocols on intellectual property rights infringements compared to a small number of court decisions on the imposition of the relevant charges is either evidence of a series and quality of complex administrative protocols or of the impossibility of effective application of applicable legislation. What is necessary to improve the quality of work of authorized persons at the stage of the drafting of administrative protocols and their decision-making in the courts?" This is in the context of Ukraine's introduction to the WTO, because one of the biggest issues that concern Ukraine is the level, the insufficient level of protection of intellectual property rights. In 2002-2004, the Ministry of Internal Affairs compiled a 5191 protocol on the administrative violation of intellectual property rights, articles 51/2 and 164/9 of KUAP. According to the trial, only 62.5 per cent of the total number of offenders were drawn to administrative responsibility by imposing a fine and only 58 per cent of the offenders were confiscated. Offenders are fined a total of 719,000 dollars, an average of 222 dollars per person. During the reporting period, 26.6 per cent of the total number of cases of administrative misconduct were closed, with 13 per cent of the cases being the dismissal of offenders from administrative responsibility for the minority of the offence committed. The IMF units are returned for proper processing of 9 percent of the total number of folded admin protocols. In order to improve the quality of making and taking decisions on administrative procedures, we have proposed that the Supreme Court of Ukraine undertake a generalisation and analysis of the status of cases of administrative infringement in respect of infringement of intellectual property rights. As a result of the analysis of the reasons for the large number of returns returned to properly address closed cases, send appropriate recommendations to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to the officials whose authority is to draw up the protocols and the territorial courts by which they are dealt with. M.V.S. that. Having regard to the recommendations received from the Supreme Court of Ukraine to undertake an analysis of the state of the art of filing for a misdemeanour to ensure the effective interaction of the courts in the conduct of these cases. Well, to be honest, we have to deal with the consequences, not the consequences, but the root causes, so we have to regulate, strictly regulate imports of counterfeit products and smuggling products, as well as the illegal manufacture of them by craftsmanship in Ukraine. That is why consultations have already been held with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Economics to strengthen this work. It's going to be done and done now, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u60	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u61	Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u62	Yes, from the committee's profile, the head of the Committee on European Integration, Sergey Pavlovich Kasianov. Please, Sergey Pavlovich, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u63	Kasianov Sergey Pavlovich, 37th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk district, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, venerable Julia Volodymyrical, respected colleagues! The strategic external economic interests of the state and the current processes of globalization dictate the need to accelerate Ukraine’s preparations for the accession to the World Trade Organization. In addition, the introduction to the WTO is a key element in the implementation of Ukraine’s Euro-Integration Objectives. 2005 is the year of the conclusion of the long-standing process of joining our nation in this global economic structure. For the first time in the history of the negotiations, there is the express political will of the executive power to introduce Ukraine to WTO. At the same time, I would like to point out that Ukraine's possible entry into the WTO at this time depends on solving two priority issues: the first is the harmonization of national legislation with WTO rules and regulations, and the second is the conclusion of the technical part of the negotiation process. With regard to the conclusion of Ukraine’s technical negotiations with the WTO working group, this is the sole authority of the government. To reconcile positions between Ukraine and the WTO countries, there is only one official and one informal meeting of the working group. Within a few months, a substantial array of documents must be prepared and the tactics of the Ukrainian delegation's negotiations should be clearly formulated to reconcile the positions of the parties quickly. Although the negotiations and preparations for WTO membership are led by the government, the final decision on Ukraine’s accession to WTO will be made by Parliament itself. And the ratification of the protocol for joining the WTO is not a simple symbolic political act. By ratifying the protocol, the Supreme Council will, by its decisions, approve the commitments made in bilateral and multilateral negotiations with the WTO working group. I will point out that many deputies are willing to participate in the discussion of the WTO issues not only before the ratification of the protocol but also during the entire negotiating period. Unfortunately, this is not always possible because of limited access to information on the course of negotiations. Perhaps someone has the illusion that the protocol for joining the WTO will automatically be ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its normal working mode. I personally had no such illusions left after the heated discussions on March 15th around the adoption of the changes to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. For a few days, the government convinced Parliament that it was necessary to adopt changes that concerned goods that accounted for only 2.3 percent of the total imports into Ukraine. The same situation was repeated on April 21, when the government proposed to approve new import tariffs for agricultural products. It is known that this bill has been sent for further work. By entering the WTO, Parliament will have to determine the border rates of import tariffs by 100 percent of the nomenclature. Not for a year or a few years, but forever. In addition, the ratification of the protocol is a recognition of Ukraine’s obligation to liberalize the access of foreign companies to the Ukrainian service market and to fully adapt legislation to the WTO requirements during the adaptation period. Therefore, the ratification of the protocol is consistent with the adoption of the most important economic laws by the weight and significance of the country’s life. I can assure you that in the parliamentary groups and factions, the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will have a heated discussion before the ratifications. Real cooperation between government and parliament is needed to achieve the goal. Effective coordination is needed that will not waste precious time. In this regard, some of the last steps taken by the government are disturbing. First, an interdepartmental commission for Ukraine’s entry into WTO was eliminated. This, of course, is an internal issue of government. Surprisingly, instead, no other organizational mechanisms have been proposed to coordinate the actions of the executive authorities. And this coordination has always been, and now there are problems. In addition, a year ago, a joint parliamentary government commission from Ukraine’s integration into the WTO, which I lead, was set up for the initiative of a group of national deputies. In doing so, we were guided by a very pragmatic argument, and we wanted to involve the MPs in discussing the prospects for Ukraine joining the WTO, and we wanted to give the government an additional mechanism to push forward in Parliament bills aimed at adapting national legislation to WTO requirements. This commission can be an effective coordination tool to speed up preparations for the WTO entry. What's more, now that the commission of the Head of the Supreme Council, together with the Committee on European Integration, has been designated as a propitious committee for drafts that refer to the scope of the WTO regulation. Yet at Parliament's suggestion to renew the government's part in a joint parliamentary-government commission, we can't get an answer for more than a month. It is difficult for me to comment on this, especially in a situation that requires swift decisions and clear action from the government, I would not want to take this delay as a refusal to cooperate with Parliament in ensuring Ukraine's entry into WTO. In addition, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly given the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a mandate to accelerate the implementation of measures aimed at completing the process of Ukraine's entry into WTO. For example, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Regulation on the Implementation of Measures for Ukraine's Entry into WTO, No. 1054 of 9 July 2003, the government was tasked with carrying out a comprehensive analysis of the social consequences of Ukraine's entry into WTO. First of all, predicting the situation in the labour market and employment of the population in the regions and developing adaptation programmes, and ensuring the development, implementation of a system of measures to increase the competitiveness of the economy in the context of Ukraine's participation in the World Trade Organization. In reference materials. The government, which has been distributed among the national MPs, has information from the problems noted. It is reported that both the positive and negative impact of the WTO’s entry into the labour market has been analysed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Relations. At the same time, we have not seen a specific proposal to reduce the negative impact on the employment rate of the working population of Ukraine. Similarly, the issue of increasing the competitiveness of specific sectors of Ukraine's economy. National deputies have been informed of an analysis of the matter by ministries and other central executive authorities. In addition, according to the World Bank’s Secretary, a contract has been made to conduct such an analysis with a consortium of foreign and Ukrainian scientific institutions. At the same time, there are no specific proposals for concrete measures aimed at improving the competitiveness of specific sectors of the economy, including sensitive ones such as agriculture, space, aviation and shipbuilding. At the same time, it is known that WTO rules and regulations provide for the possibility of providing support to individual sectors and regions of Ukraine. There is also a significant world of WTO members on this issue. Thus, the government should now propose concrete measures in this direction. In this regard, we think it would be advisable to create an independent, state-fixed, single analytical centre for continuous analysis and recommendations by the Government of Ukraine on a strategy for the functioning of the economy and the social sphere of Ukraine as a member of the WTO. To sum up, it is possible to point out that it is necessary for the Government: first, to activate the work of the government part of the joint parliamentary-government commission from Ukraine's integration into the WTO and in its framework to develop a timetable for the submission and passage through the Supreme Council of Ukraine of draft laws that will ensure that Ukrainian legislation is in conformity with the rules and principles of the GAT SOT. Second, to develop and launch a comprehensive plan of action to address the negative social consequences of Ukraine's entry into the WTO, aimed primarily at predicting the situation in the labour market and ensuring the level of employment of the population in the region. Thirdly, to ensure the development and implementation of a system of measures for State support to a number of sectors of the economy of Ukraine aimed at enhancing competitiveness that would meet the requirements of GAT SOT. Fourthly, ensure the continued operation of demand processing centres, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, as well as technical regulations in place in Ukraine. Fifth, with a view to further raising public awareness of the consequences of joining the WTO, steps have been taken to increase the awareness of economic and social actors about the standards and principles of GAT SOT systems. And the experience of being a member of hundreds of other countries. Dear colleagues, the tight time frame for completing the WTO negotiations requires rapid systemic action by all the parties responsible for the process. Therefore, the government, Parliament, business, and public organizations must join forces and ensure openness in discussing the problems of Ukraine’s accession to WTO. Thank you for your attention. The report has been completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u64	Thank you, Sergey Pavlovich, sit down, please. Yes, we have 30 minutes to discuss. Please, Basil Nadrag, People's Party faction, prepare for Hirschfeld. Dear Vasil Ivanovich. I can't see. Anatoly Hirschfeld, National Party, please. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u65	Anatoly Hirschfeld, People's Party faction, 180 constituency, Kharkiv region. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected Yulia Vladimirovna, respected colleagues. An analysis of the main approaches to Ukraine's accession to WTO, both in favour and against, can be phrased: Ukraine's accession to WTO means global liberalization of external economic activities. Liberalization is indeed an objectively useful process. But we must not forget that the outcome of the process is the survival of the strongest. The problem is that Ukraine's economy is not the strongest to date. According to the CGI Competitiveness Index in 2004, Ukraine dropped 86th from 84th in 2003, and is now on the list immediately after Tanzania, Macedonia, Zambia and Venezuela. What is required to liberalize foreign trade? This need arises when the national economy has exhausted domestic growth reserves and further development needs expansion into external markets. But we can't forget that access to external markets is also a gateway to our internal market. The main external factors and baselines that affect the date and conditions of entry into WTO today. First, accession to the WTO should take place before Russia, otherwise we will be forced to negotiate on favourable terms in Russia. Secondly, for at least 10-15 years, the CIS market will be one of the key and will seriously affect the state of the economy. Thirdly, the main proportion of national exports, 61 per cent, are low-processing products, such as metal, chemistry, mineral products. Not all of them have competitive quality, mainly competitive price. Fourthly, and that's an absolute positive. The prospect of joining the WTO is the prospect of free access to the world's largest markets and eliminating discrimination against Ukrainian goods. Most experts, however, predict with high probability the negative effects on a number of basic industries. Like agriculture, automotive, engineering. In particular, in Poland's example, we know about stagnation between 10 and 15 per cent annually. Today, Ukraine has produced about 50,000 bracelets for one employee. At a time when the United States and the European Union reach more than 100,000 bracelets. With this state of technology and productivity, Ukraine's role as a supplier of raw materials and low-tech products has forever been enshrined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm a little off course. Puzakov, which I have announced, is about to perform. And then we'll go, and we'll give the advantage to those who sign up for the factions. Please, Vladimir Puzakov. Next to the faction "Democratic Ukraine" Anatoly Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u67	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today, it is unrealistic to talk about Ukraine’s entry into the U.S.S.A. Because there is nowhere to go, children, Ukraine is not prepared for this. Is it going to be able to make a common commitment to all WTO countries without any kind of trade? It's going to be a complete collapse of an economy that's still in crisis. Is today’s business ready to compete with energy prices, management? Of course not. No one understands the economic view. The leadership of the State simply wants to sit next to the leaders of civilized countries, showing this picture to their own people, saying that it is not so bad in our home: we have been recognized even within the WTO. The stated goal of SOTA activities is to eliminate customs barriers and to achieve the total free movement of capital of goods and labour. Who would benefit from that? And it's only for the uneasy people. A large number of professional experts are required to enter the WTO for each individual Ukrainian sector, or we will become a classic third-class country, where raw materials are taken and dirty businesses are placed, in return they produce colonial products. Foreign goods will come to us, but not foreign investments. So what will Ukraine win? And as a white day, it's clear that the countries that have developed will win. They put very high barriers on the way to a product that they do not want to see in themselves, especially with regard to agricultural goods. So the government is not enough to calculate the negative effects of joining the organization today, and it probably does not want to do so. And the people of Ukraine need to be told all the truth. The people need to know that for a few years the economic situation will become worse, especially for the export goods of metallurgy and agriculture. Thus, it is good to enter the U.S.A. under conditions favourable to Ukraine. But unfortunately, the general line of government today is only for Europe. Is it not clear that a certain chance of winning an entry into the WTO has areas that target their production exclusively on the dumping export, but this also raises the question: where does this profit actually come from? Thus, the introduction of STOs will lead to an increase in internal tariffs on gas, fuel, and electricity, and the wage will fall substantially after the opening of the labour force’s borders. Conclusion one: Introduction to SOT is a deterioration of the life of an average citizen of Ukraine. And people are good, don't you understand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u68	Yes, please, Anatoly Rahansky, faction of Democratic Ukraine. Prepare Oleg Yuhnowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u69	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, voters, the World Trade Organization today are 148 countries around the world, 30 observer countries, two-thirds of the world's trade volume. The introduction to this organization is one of the most important priorities of Ukraine's foreign economic policy. But we need to do a comprehensive study of both the positive and the negative consequences of Ukraine's accession to WTO. To gain guaranteed access to world markets, goods, jobs, services, appropriate rights to protect our Ukrainian interests in world markets. The procedure for joining the WTO is multi-planned. This process takes 12 years in the state. But the constant structural reconstruction, the market reform experiments offered by both domestic and foreign experts, failed to achieve the desired results. Each of the 13 governments in these years has declared readiness to join the WTO, ignoring the economic and market conditions of the state. That's why Ukraine has 86 seats in competitiveness, 117 seats in enterprise freedom, 40 percent standard harmonization, and twice as many in WTO countries. That is, Ukraine's current legislation is not in line with the basic principles of market economy and WTO rules of action. The government's desire to join the WTO in the current year has put the Supreme Council ahead of the fact that a whole series of bills are being adopted, I don't know, with a bag or a bag. More than half of them are related to a catastrophic situation in the APC. At the same time, the WTO member states do not agree to accept the basic period of 1994-1996 proposed by Ukraine for the calculation of the maximum level of State support, while applying high tariff protection, customs rates, special protection measures for their farmers. Unfortunately, WTO countries do not take into account the position of developing countries, nor do they reduce the internal support of the APC in their countries. We need to make a deal on the shore, before the WTO enters into the problems of the APC, small business, industry, banking and adoption of a whole range of state-friendly bills. Under such conditions, the APC’s entry into the U.S.A. can destroy the industry by creating unemployment, social hardships in the state. The government and parliament have something to work on in this direction together. Officials need to protect the State's interests in negotiation processes, including us, MPs who are members of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u70	Yes, dear fellows! Oleg Yukhnowsky from the "One Ukraine" faction is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Warfare Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Members of the Government! I'm going to focus your attention on the problems of the sector, which, given Ukraine's accession to the WTO, is probably the biggest risk and loss. This is agriculture. Russian agrarian scientists have boldly claimed that the loss of the Russian APC by the Russian Federation's membership of the SOT may amount to at least $4 billion. Do we have such calculations? It's not just about arithmetic, it's about concrete measures aimed at minimizing these losses and how much they are consistent with the state support of Ukraine's agriculture. As far as the latter is concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture's position is at 140 million dollars in green box action, $1.14 billion in yellow box, which is actually at the level of budget expenditure for the APC for 2000-2002. But can a national agricultural product compete in the world’s markets at a level of state support 10-20 times lower than in the EU? A clear example of this "support" in quotes is the oil-fat sector, which because of currency market fluctuations, the debt of VAT for more than 300 million dollars, the constant blackmail of the difference in import duties, essentially stopped exports of its products. If we talk about the compatibility of internal standards and technical regulations with SOTAs, they're only 10 to 12 percent co-sound. Their development and implementation require considerable costs for both the State Budget and the producers. For these purposes, the budget provides 41 million dollars. But there was another problem: this work has not yet been started, to perform it in strict terms, in my opinion, practically impossible because of the lack of proper coordination and highly qualified professionals in the department. It is therefore urgent to involve a wide range of professional associations in the development of standards and technical regulations. In liberalising customs tariff regulations, it is also necessary to focus on the application of non-tariff protection of the internal market. According to experts, the presence of a national producer in the agro-food market from WTO membership may decrease by 20 to 30 percent. This decline will take place through intervention in relation to cheap imports. How unmotivated imports can affect domestic production is enough to mention the situation in the turquoise complex. As the experience of postsocialist countries has shown. A hundred of the most competitive in the internal market since joining the WTO have been found to be animal producers. In Ukraine nearly 99 percent of potatoes, 85 percent of vegetables, vegetables, fruits, and berries are produced in the population. Thus, commercial and personal agriculture will become the most vulnerable group after joining the WTO. Then, economic problems can transform into social problems and cover nearly a third of the population of Ukraine. The analysis of only one agrofood market shows that Ukraine has made a political decision to join the WTO, the government should maximize its activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian National Party Prepare Vitalia Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u73	Honorable members of the government, distinguished national MPs! The position of the Ukrainian People's Party coincides with the position declared by the President that Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization is a strategic direction that we are really talking about for a long time, but unfortunately we are doing very little. Of course, we are all very often trapped in dogma, Soviet past dogma, which say it will destroy the Ukrainian economy, will destroy Ukrainian agriculture. Just as it was destroyed by the Communist system of farming and destroyed by our oligarchs, I don't think it's going to be destroyed by any WTO. Of course, the work of the World Trade Organization should take advantage of the experience of other nations. For some sectors of the economy, we have to anticipate a kind of transition period. Of course, standards should be entered. We still have the standards of the former Soviet Union, and here the work of the technical regulation committee is very, very important. I realize that some are keenly interested in Russia’s being more involved in the World Trade Organization than in European Ukraine. And then, of course, we, some think, will have nothing to do with staying, not in Europe, not in the world co-workers, but in the Eurasian single economic space. We can't let that happen. That's why I'm addressing members of the government. You've been doing a lot of work in this session room. If this is how the government and parliament work is unharmonized, the parliamentary majority of the documents that will speed up our entry into the World Trade Organization, in the European structure, I think, really, there will be more declarations here, there will be more words than works, because these bills, which are supposed to be adopted yesterday, unfortunately yesterday, are quite often replaced by foreign travel by some of the government than by monotonous real work with parliamentary committees and factions. We have a committee of Euro-integration that's sort of profiled in this job. I also want to ask the government to figure out who we have in the government responsible for this strategic direction -- integration into the World Trade Organization, integration into European structures. I am confident that the positions declared by President Yashchenk before the elections and now that we will be in the WTO at the end of this year will be implemented in action, and this will be implemented with that Polish experience which is, by the way, very positive. They were able to make a very effective entry into the U.S.A. to protect their national manufacturer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u74	Vitaly Majko is invited to the presentation, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Prepare Gregory the Cauldron.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u75	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, faction of Industrialists and entrepreneurs in Ukraine Ukraine’s national deputies are deeply concerned about the growing tension in entrepreneurial circles and in society as a whole regarding the progress of Ukraine’s acquisition of membership in the World Trade Organization. In the majority of Ukrainian societies, there are moods to support foreign economic policy priorities in the direction of integration into global and regional economic structures, including WTO. However, it should be borne in mind that Ukraine's acquisition of membership in this organization is a mixed systemic factor that will have a long-term systemic impact on economic development, will determine in the future the role and place of our nation's economic complex in today's international economic system. The first task of the government in the context of preparing a domestic farm complex for work under WTO conditions is to create favourable conditions for the development of domestic enterprises. At the same time, it is obvious that there are a number of objective risks and possible negative consequences of this step that will be manifested in the medium and long term. At the same time, much of the operators are not ready for fierce competition in open market space. Often, the low competitiveness of domestic enterprises is primarily linked to the downsizing of core funds, the high energy efficiency of production, limited access to investment resources, and virtually no incentives for innovation, and so on. I would like to highlight another fact that concerns me personally. It's a fact of supporting the competitiveness of our entire industry. And I'd like to draw the attention of government officials who don't exist in bed right now, those who can hear it. It's a question of how much we support those advanced technologies, those scientific research institutes, the directions that we need to work in order to increase the competitiveness of our industry. Without that, we will not enter the world of a competitive state. I think it takes a lot of attention to develop our industry, to support it, and to stand up for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u76	Yes, Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished Julius Volodymyrally, respected colleagues! Regardless of the long-standing debate on the entry into WTO, we still have no clarity on both the terms of entry into WTO and the losses and gains in particular sectors of the economy as a result of Ukraine's accession to this organization. So society obviously doesn't know what to expect from the liberalisation of the external economic regime. Obviously, not all aspects of government contracts reflect the interests of Ukrainian producers. They also contain concessions for the benefit of other nations. However, the minister’s report does not give a clear idea of the real consequences of the decisions adopted and the content of the signed protocols. If, as the minister suggests to us, we act at random, the Ukrainian economy is once again looking forward to different surprises and pleasant surprises, such as the momentary exchange rate changes. Since any action of this nature is to be taken in the interests of citizens of Ukraine and national economic entities, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine proposes: first, before Parliament approves legislative acts that determine the full adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to the WTO rules, to hold a meeting with the participation of government representatives, the professional committees and the factions of the Supreme Council, in order to identify the main consequences for the Ukrainian economy when Ukraine joins the WTO. [[united]] Secondly, in preparation for such a working council, the Ministry of Economics is expected to prepare schemes, sectoral tariff adjustment schedules and other external trade regulation rules in accordance with the established protocols and government bills that will allow their implementation to be monitored in time. Thirdly, the Government and the Supreme Council have to determine on the basis of specific arguments whether or not to accelerate the measures to lead to the accession of the State to the WTO. The actions of authority should be meaningful and responsible and based on an assessment of the benefits or disadvantages of each particular decision. The main goal is to avoid unforeseen losses and hardships for our national economy and society. Four. In order to accelerate efforts to join the WTO in 2005, the government should propose measures that can mitigate the effects of external economic liberalisation on sensitive sectors, such as agriculture, light industry, engineering, the banking sector, and so forth. It is helpful to identify tools that the authorities could use to remove or mitigate difficult requirements for the Ukrainian economy and society. Like the liberalization of metal trade exports or the demand of the United States to cancel medical education for Ukrainian hospital managers or clinicians. It is meant that in the event of total liberalisation, all objects with no armed protection will be affected, and the protection of the buildings and gardens of the inhabitants should be considered now and not later. Once again, the position of the faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is that Ukraine's preparations for WTO membership should become more open and responsible, under the conditions of the favourable people of Ukraine. [[united]] However, the Minister's report, unfortunately, does not contain an answer to the expected consequences, the proposed steps, nor does it warn those sectors of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u78	Yes, the National Deputy Turmanov, "Regions of Ukraine" is invited to the address. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the “Regions of Ukraine” faction supports the country's desire to join the World Trade Organization. We understand that it is impossible and not in Ukraine's interest to shield ourselves from the globalization processes that have gripped our entire planet. But unlike the Cabinet of Ministers, we view the WTO as not a picnic in a friendly company, but as a single, let alone friends, but a single. In sports language, each individual seriously prepares for the meeting, strengthens the muscles, improves the tactics of fighting, examines the strengths and weaknesses of the opponent. Competition is a match that has winners, but there are losers. WTO is the highest level of competition for Ukraine. The faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” raises doubts and concerns about Ukraine's readiness for the highest competition. That is, 60 per cent of current exports are raw materials and materials. According to the competitiveness index from hundreds of countries, we are at the very end of this list. Exports of core foundations of basic industries over 80 per cent. National norms are almost incompatible with international standards. For example, of the 1,500 standards that they have in the machinery industry, Ukraine has only adopted 150. Unsatisfying comparisons with competitors and at the level of technological equipment, scientific intensity, energy efficiency, labour potential, access to capital, protection of its own producer. The lack of serious development of the social consequences of Ukraine's accession to the WTO is particularly alarming, which is expected to result in Ukrainian labour, each of which is 20-30 times lower than in the European Union. The promised 5 million jobs in the country or the demeaning low-paid work abroad. In its report in 2004, the World Commission on Social Affairs. Globalization stressed that, in a global economy without a freely formed public opinion, a conscious commitment of society, without the creation of social institutions to protect human rights and the way in which human life leads to the destruction of social protection and the violation of human rights. The absence of a transparent, under-supervised system of decision-making in Ukraine does not contribute to the stable and secure development of society. All supporters of Ukraine's entry into the WTO and, above all, the Cabinet of Ministers need to understand that competition in the WTO will not be the Government, but the enterprise, the company and the Ukrainian workers will be the main and only competitors in the world economy. Therefore, the faction “Regions of Ukraine” proposes to establish a national commission on the social aspects of globalization, as recommended by the world commission, to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers to develop and submit to the approval of the Supreme Council the National Economic Adaptation Programme for WTO-specific social aspects, to develop and approve a State labour capacity development programme, to introduce a new version of the Employment Law to the Supreme Council, a draft law on professional development of staff at work. This is not only necessary for civilized entry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u80	Thank you. Andrew School, a faction of Yulia Timoshenko, is invited to the presentation. Next is Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u81	Thank you. I would first like to highlight two aspects of the problem of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. The first problem is whether or not to join the SATs? The other problem is not to come in. And there are no categories in the middle, in principle. To talk about being able to join the WTO in 10, 15, 120 years, preferably after 300, is also a good approach that we said we would be so embittered. There was already a candidate for the Presidents who said that we should not join the European Union, we should build the European Union in Ukraine. And then, I take it, the next step is to take the countries of the European Union to Ukraine. There is no such route in Ukraine right now. With this candidate defeated, there is no such move for the Presidents. There's only one move: Ukraine's introduction to the WTO, and here we have to stand up for the position of Ukraine, stand up for the position of the Ukrainian manufacturer, but remember that no one will ever finance the future competitors of the development of the competition industries here, even if we wait this 5 years, 10.15, that's not going to happen. There will be only mutual competition built to make the Ukrainian product competitive. I agree with the previous statement that Ukraine is now essentially exporting outside Ukraine and selling raw materials, I agree. But this is where everyone started, and don't forget that countries that are not poor enough, like Norway, also have a major export option -- raw materials, gas and oil, but they live infinitely better and more infinitely higher standards than Ukraine. And that's where we have to compete. So I think that the position of Ukraine's entry into WTO is unappealable, so we can't argue here, come in or not. Come in. The question is, How? You can build up your demands before the World Trade Organization, but no one will be able to compensate, because this is not Ukraine's introduction to the European Union, is it about whether we are now discussing whether to be in Ukraine on the Council of Europe or not? Belarus is not a member of the Council of Europe, and I don't think the standard of living or anything has improved. This is a representative body, this will enable Ukraine to compete equally with all the countries of the World Trade Organization, and this will only benefit, I stress, only the benefits of the Ukrainian economy, because to believe that you can develop qualitatively into a zoo, you can, but then you can't get into a living, real nature. So let's not be happy with the illusion that the Ukrainian economy can grow up in a zoo, and then, mature, it's going to be "economic jungles." This was not with anyone and will not be with Ukraine. That's why I'm stressing that you need, and this is the faction's idea, you need to go to the U.S.A., just to clearly build up your terms, your demands, but remember, you need to hurry up with the entrance to the U.S.A. And persistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u82	Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, a Communist faction, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u83	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The Supreme Council does not for the first time consider issues related to Ukraine’s entry into WTO. And if these problems were previously at the point of discussion, as the new authority came in, they began to be energetic in life, and we feel that without sufficient arguments. This was the adoption by the Supreme Council on April 22, this year of a bill to reduce the rate of duty on agricultural products - 1.24. Thus, the faction of Communists gave a political and economic assessment of these actions. Once again, we point out that the position of our party and the faction on Ukraine's entry into the WTO is quite clear and logical: we are against the hasty, groundless integration into the world trading system. We believe that today the economically weakened Ukraine is not ready to become an equal member of the World Trade Organization. I think, dear friends, that you and I have listened to the Cabinet of Ministers report and the committee's report -- and we have seen that there are no arguments. We have seen that today the gross domestic product per capita is tens of times lower than in European leading countries. Today, we see that energy saturation and energy weapons are five to ten times lower in Ukraine than in Europe’s leading nations. And we've heard today that Ukraine can only trade raw materials, and this from this rostrum was said that 60 percent of exports are raw materials. We're finally going to go to WTO today, we're going to lose aviation, we're going to lose the electronic industry, we're going to lose the power plant, we're going to virtually lose the better industries that we had before. We will finally destroy the light and woodworking industries. As for the agro-industrial complex, ten words literally. I think it's honorable friends that we understand that in 14 years we've destroyed highly productive, heavy-duty manufacturing. And we're practically on the side of civilized states today. The APC was ready to join the WTO in 1991. Today we're not ready. It takes us 8-10 years to rebuild the industry, restore the APC, and we can actually enter then. But I think colonial Europe is old today looking for a market. And such a market is seen in Ukraine’s 50 millionth. We can't let that happen! We have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u84	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u85	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Dear radio listeners! The issue that we are discussing today is very important for Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine stems from the position that we will support all the steps that the government, the President, Parliament will take in order to strengthen and make it work in favour of the economy of Ukraine. We support it. But the government today is entrusted with a very responsible task in the negotiation process. As we have learned, according to the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, 30 long-term protocols have already been signed as of April 2005 with the majority of the members of the WTO working group on the accession of Ukraine to this treaty. 95 percent of customs tariffs have been accepted. The working group has left more than 70 percent of the draft report as the main recommendation for Ukraine’s introduction. What, in our view, prevents us from moving this work forward? First of all, despite the basic work done during the years 2003-2004, many issues remain unresolved. If the Ministry of Economics believes that 30 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers are to be repealed, it is necessary to amend 30 laws of Ukraine, and the area of sanitary and phytosanitary control is generally a white spot. The latter is regulated by an appropriate agreement on the implementation of such measures by the STOS. Its implementation is related to the cost of appropriate equipment, the legislative implementation of the necessary standards, and the training of staff. As the practice of countries with economies in transition shows, these costs are quite significant. Thus, only about 85 million bracelets are needed for technical equipment and credit of only 20 veterinary laboratories and bread inspections. It's only in this position. Will Ukraine’s economy today withstand such costs? Hardly. What's more, we have an oil crisis. I think there are other issues that need to be addressed in the state. That's why we think that we need to take the steps that we're taking before we get to the WTO, very carefully to take steps not to make a mistake that will prevent the economy from moving forward that can affect agriculture and today's areas of production in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u86	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! We finished the discussion. Now we need to make a decision. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. We have two draft rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this subject. The draft decisions were made by members of the Committee on European Integration of Zarubinsky and Cassianov, or the Committee. We have an alternative draft decision, which is written by the national deputy Yuri Karmazin. Yuri Anatoliyovich, please, for three minutes to justify your project, and then we'll vote, and we'll move on to the following questions. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reputable Ukrainian people. Today the question is whether to move Ukraine forward or not, to a company of 148 countries in the world, where more than 90 percent of the world’s trade? I'm definitely giving this answer that yes, we have to move. But how can we move? To that end, apparently the government, reverend Julius Volodymyrically, has gone somewhere. The government needs to take a tour not only of the cat, not just of the theater, but of the village of Pyrogovo, but of the government's tour of the Bessarabian market, of other markets, of the AZS, of the seventh mile near Odessa, of other markets, and of businesses. And when you come to the factory, and you look at what's there, and you see why the boulder cost 50 dollars instead of 22 dollars, then you'll have the question: not how to walk, accept journalists, but how to make it cheaper. And from that point of view, I'm asking the question of what it takes, of course, to sign contracts, enter into WTO, but they have to be solely in the national interest of Ukraine. First of all, we need to provide the National Deputies with agreed graphs of bilateral and multilateral negotiations with countries, members of the World Trade Organization, information on the development of mechanisms for State support for agrarian, aviation, shipbuilding, space-based, other sectors of the economy that meet the requirements of the GAT SOT Treaty System. We need to report to the task force so that the MPs do not know what decisions are being made, but have seen and deliberately prepared the bills. We need to prepare a timetable for passing through the Supreme Council of Ukraine bills that will ensure that Ukrainian legislation is in line with the rules and principles of the WTO. We need to develop a comprehensive plan of action to overcome the negative social consequences of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO, which my colleagues, the national MPs, have talked about today. We have consciously from every consequence that may be God forbid, negative for Ukraine to take forward action to save a branch or a branch. And then it wouldn't be what's in the car building right now. When 50 to 60 percent of the unsightly fields arrive today. How so? Then, and if we get into the SATs. But they're only going to break 20%. Therefore, Your Honor, no, the woods are just being sawed, Mr. Hare. Exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u88	Yes. 20 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u89	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, in my determination, in my project, there is exactly a work plan for adapting legislation for 2005-2010. There is a prospect and a plan for the Supreme Council to act. In each Committee, create an appropriate subcommittee. It is precisely the Supreme Council’s Committee on Legislative Affairs on European Integration that needs to be brought together. Because two committees for the same subject probably don't have to answer. This is going to be both an economy and a way forward. So I would like to make a decision, at least to read the decision that I have drawn up. I think it will ensure the independence and sovereignty of the state of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u90	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We have a project that's decided by the Committee, and there's an alternative draft decision. According to the regulation, the draft regulation is the first to be voted on. For reasons of what? Please enter 3 minutes on the basis of the vote, 3 minutes on the basis of the vote. Please put the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Tkalenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. You don't? Please, Player, Communist faction. Grachev's handing over the right to speak to Yuri Solomatin. Is that what I'm saying? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Gračov Oleg Alexiyovich, thank you all. Friends! Sergio Kasianova, Aleksandra Mikolaiovich Tkachenka, our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin, was very important. I'm going to try to make these remarks in the folk language right now. I have the impression that a beautiful girl in Ukraine is being led under the arms of a marriage, but her future husband, named GAT SOT, is under some sort of opaque catch. Does not a beautiful girl in Ukraine receive instead of a man of young beauty from some One who is not dying? I don't think we should vote in favour of this kind of decision. It will be extremely dangerous for our dear, beautiful Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the point is that we have to take the basis of one of the projects and then work with the discussion that has taken place, taking into account the proposals that have been made here. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u93	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozsky region, Plugovsk electoral district. Colleagues, I think it is clear to everyone that the issue under discussion today is very important to the economy of the country. And the question is not whether or not to join the SOT. The question is, when, how do you get in? And today's issues are talking about risks that might be involved in an emergency approach to the STO. The risks that we have in the economy, the agrarian sector, the automotive industry, the coal industry must be weighed again. [[Why wasn't the question completely raised?]] In other words, it's not a case of urgency. Karmazin's colleague raised the right questions. But I think given the existence of two projects, we both need to go to work. It is only after we have chosen a positive side from both bills to return to discussion and adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u94	Yes, please, Dear Vasil Ivanovich, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u95	Vassili Nadrag, People's party. Dear colleagues, when we discussed this subject at the People's Party faction, we emphasized that acceptance or accession to the WTO was the main problem in keeping the most vulnerable sectors of the economy. Well, this is about agriculture. I can give an example of the coal industry, because liberalization can lead to cheap imports of coal that we will stop our coal industry in full programme. This will result in both social and environmental impacts. I want to say that today we must necessarily solve problems so that the international standards for which our production will be produced or the requirements that will be put forward are also in line. It takes both time and money and the efforts of the State to do so. So today, when we're talking about whether to come in or not, we should. But you have to think about the economy, you have to think about its survival in a very tight competition, where there will be no assistants, no one will have to survive on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We've exchanged thoughts on the basis of the vote, but if we're going to be working on the draft, we're going to have to take some kind of document on the basis that we're going to have to work on. Taking this proposal into account and taking into account two projects, I am voting on the basis of a draft Supreme Council decision, registration number 7450, on the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of measures for Ukraine's entry into the WTO. The authors are members of the Committee on European Integration of Zarubinsky, Cassianov and others. Please vote. [[13:00:38]] For 264 Decision taken. Please. The factions, please. I'd like to ask, honourable colleagues, as we agreed, let's do the deal, then don't provoke the resistance. "Our Ukraine" - 67, Communist faction - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 4, National Party - 33, SPU - 18, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 24, UNP - 21, SDPU - 14, "One Ukraine" - 7, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 12, "Soyuz" - 13, "Postfactional" - 20. We accepted the document as the basis. I'm asking you to make a comment, a proposal for a supplement, and a committee to work on and submit to the Supreme Council for final adoption of the draft ruling as a ruling. The question was concluded. Dear colleagues, we now turn to the following question: To the Attorney General of Ukraine. We voted in favour of including this issue in the agenda. The project is given to you. Perhaps we will make a decision and not discuss it? Well, please, three minutes. We're exchanging with motivations. Please sign in. I'm in charge of the Conciliation Board. Please, three minutes. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Then Oleg Grachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u97	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I may not have understood something, but you've informed us that we're listening to the issue of the WTO, then the government's information on the oil market crisis, and then we're moving on to that question. Please clarify, because it doesn't seem very clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u98	I think you've got it all figured out. You don't have to pretend you don't get it. We made a clear agreement, and the procedure was put out, so there is no reason to explain further. Oleg Grachev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u99	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have always been Grachev since birth. In fact, the draft which has been put before us for consideration is, in my view, juridically balanced and can be voted on without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u100	Turmanov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u101	I'd like to give the floor to Laryna, the "Regions" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u102	Sergey Larin, faction of "Ukraine". I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we met for a recess at the Conciliation Council and determined how we would vote. We agreed to this arrangement. Therefore, I propose that we proceed to discuss the matter and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u104	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, a representative of the People's Party faction participated in the Conciliation Council and a consolidated decision was taken. Therefore, he is completely in solidarity with all those who say today that there is no point in discussing it, but we just have to vote. We believe in the faction that we must vote. This is the position of the faction of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u106	Yes, Vladimir Muhin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u107	May I have a word with Mikola Rudzkowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u108	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u109	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! On this point, I think the MPs will be determined. But I think that the next question that we have on oil products is that we have to consider carefully and give all the deputies and factions the opportunity to make a balanced decision. Not without discussing how you are now putting this question to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u110	Thank you for your observation, Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that, you know, here is a question that, in principle, would need not a discussion, but actually a vote. Although I think this party that initiated would have to determine whether they needed a discussion or not. Because I'm really convinced that now those radios, our people listening to the Supreme Council, they want to hear how to get out of the oil crisis that the neighbouring state has prepared for us. So I'd like us to move on to this issue more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we exchanged views about the motives of the vote. The initiators of the draft decision refuse to substantiate the draft decision, as this was discussed in detail at the Conciliation Board meeting and you all know the problem. We decided to put the matter in order of the day. Therefore, I am now putting to the vote, please note, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, registration number 7493. Please vote. [[13:06:24]] For 277 I'll take the order. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 54, Ukraine - 47, People's Party - 32, SPU-12, Block Timoshenko - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU - 17, Ukraine - 14, Democratic Ukraine - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 15, Union - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 13, non-fractional - 23. Dear colleagues! Here's the question: "The Cabinet of Ministers Information on the situation in the oil market", and the draft Law on Change in the Customs Tariff of Ukraine. [[on the stabilization of the oil market]] We agreed on a procedure for dealing with this issue. For information, the Cabinet of Ministers. Is 10 minutes enough for you? And 10 minutes of questions, answers, then we go to the draft law. We agreed that we would take 45 minutes to consider the matter. Let's do more now, within 14 hours of making a decision. Is there no objection? Now let's figure out the information and then figure it out. Okay? Well, let's see, fellow Members, 20 minutes of information, 10 minutes of questions, 10 minutes of answers and 45 minutes of consideration for changes to the Customs Tariff. It's consistent with the rules. Is there no objection? Forty-five minutes to review. [[B in m in s a l in]] Should we put it to a vote? I'll set it up, it won't be now. Please. And there will be an hour, even more than an hour. Crybaby Ivan Vasilovich, please. Ah, Sergey Teryohin will be providing information, Minister of Economic Affairs. Listen. We'll be listening to information for 20 minutes. This report goes on this issue. And then we make a decision, right? After 45 minutes, we will consider our own Law. What do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u114	Thank you, Mr. Head, Honourable People's Deputies, allow me to provide a brief account of the price situation in the oil market. Unfortunately, as a result of the external market, the situation in the oil market in Ukraine has recently deteriorated. The resourceful filling of the market with motor fuels does not correspond to demand, and this is primarily true of high-octane gasoline. Since the White 96-98% supply in the engine market is made up of oil products produced by the U.S.O., a 39% reduction in oil supply for them has led to a reduction in the production of petrol and diesel. According to operational data, during the 15 days of May 2005, 494.5 tons of oil was added to the IPA, 38.6% less than during the similar period of May last year. The volume of processing during this period amounted to 564.5 thousand tonnes, 11.1% less than in the same May period last year. Gas production is about 91,000 tons, diesel is 173, which is less than 27.9 and 2.2 in the same May period. Practically, a fourfold decline in oil processing has led to imbalances in demand and supply. According to some estimates, it reaches up to 200,000 tons in light. In addition to the previously mentioned deficit, the delayed demand for late spring, which is now being fully realized, for high-octane petrol demand, for export of oil products from Ukraine to low-supply markets for oil products in March, early April of this year, for halting the repair of the Lysican and Hersonian MIPs, for work to be restored. Well, to the extreme extent, the Lysician IAP is still in question. Imports cannot correct the situation of the market’s resourceful filling in the existing legislative field. There are 500 euroton and 1.5 euroton incendiary imports and the introduction of new excise duties from April 1st. Helpful. Imports of motorized petrol are virtually not happening today. In 12 days, only 200 tons of petrol were imported, which is about 16,000 tons, about 11 percent less than the same period last year. The emergence of a shortage of motor fuels has led to a significant increase in prices for them in order to solve the problem in a timely manner, a number of measures have been taken by the government to regulate prices in the oil market. However, this does not solve the issue of resource filling. The most effective way out of this situation is to change the legislative field in the part of the cancellation of import duties on motor fuels and the reduction of tax pressure on the part of excise taxes. Now let me say a few words about the world market situation. The Russian Federation’s oil expert tax rate rose to $102.6 per tonne from April 1, 1995, to $83 per tonne. The government of the Russian Federation now decides to set export duties at a record high of $136.2 per tonne. This is the first time in the history of the Russian Federation that this is the level of taxation. It should be noted that the establishment of an export duty on oil does not have a direct impact on the price that is being paid for processing, since it is being introduced with the aim of eliminating the revenues of oil companies associated with the increase in the price of oil in the world’s markets. However, in order to compensate for the under-recovery, to keep the limit, companies are trying to increase the price of oil delivered to Ukraine for processing, resulting in an increase in the price of oil products. Helpful. In the first half of April of this year, oil prices imported from the Russian Federation were on average 291 dollars per tonne, and in the second half of April, 308. During the 13 days of May of this year, Russian oil was delivered at a cost of $302 per tonne, but after the installation of $136.2, it will exceed $330 per tonne. Since the beginning of the year, oil prices in world markets have both increased and decreased. At the same time, from February onward, there is a steady trend in rising prices for this raw material. During 13 days May the price of oil stamps." They're down by 2.7 percent, and on May 13 they're set at $44.35 per barrel, that's about $3,324 per tonne. It should be noted that although there is now a steady trend towards lowering the Brand oil prices, futures and semi-annuals are already talking about waiting for further reductions. We can't count on a fast decline in Urolsu, which takes about 90 percent of the total consumption of Ukrainian oil refineries. In view of the fact that the Russian Federation is reviewing export duties once every two months, so both in May and in June and July, we will have one price line with the Russian Federation. A few words about the price situation in Ukraine’s market. At wholesale prices. A Mine Economics With Commandments of 14.04 B.C.E. 2005 on the establishment of the limits of wholesale discount rates for diesel and petrol and 20.04. The number 106 for changes to this order was set to 01.06. 2005 limit rates of wholesale fuel-fired holiday prices and petrol-driven motors in the internal market. On May 13, the average wholesale prices for diesel, 92nd, 95th higher than they were set at 9,7, 1.8 and four respectively. And on the 76th, the 80th below set at 2.9. Since the beginning of May of this year, average wholesale prices have risen by 0.4 percent, fueled by 1.9 percent, and other petrol prices have not changed. The order of the Mineconomy from the 12th of this month has set the marginal wholesale prices at a level: 3528 dollars a tonne is 92nd and 3776 dollars a tonne is 95th, incinerator is 3039 tons. You know that fragmented prices and price prices are regulated, not by the central government, but by local authorities. And the government only recommended that the local authorities keep the marginal walrus in pieces, not above 13 percent, which corresponds to the average cost of the generators. We have a daily price monitoring on AZS. The average level of retail oil prices in the regions varies from 2.81 bracelets in the Zitomir region to 2.93 in Sevastopol, 76th in the city of Lugansk to 2.90 in Sevastopol. And after A95 - 3.02 in Kiev, up to 3.43 in Sevastopol. In the section of ASS networks of the largest oil companies (WOG, TNC, Lukoil, Oko, Ukratnafta, Alliance-NC and Ukranafta) the levels of retail oil prices vary from 2.85 bracelets (this is WOG, Oko, TNC, Skrnafta, Ukratnafta) to 2.87 on Lukoili. 76th is 2.84 TNCs, 2.88 Lukoil, 95th is 3.20th in all but Alliance-NC, where the average price is 3.28. You can see that by the supply dynamic, I won't be you. A few more words, I apologize for the offer of motor fuels. If possible, literally one more minute. By import-export. For the 12 days of May of this year, the supply of diesel was 15.7 thousand tons. Gas imports, I already said, 200 tons of everything that absolutely doesn't reflect the capacity of the internal market. By production. The IAPZ had reached 494.5 thousand in 15 days. tons. I've already said it's almost 39 percent less than it is over the same period. And the leftovers. Remnants of motor fuels at 01.05 - 288,000 tons, diesel at 448.7,000 tons. So I don't want to analyze why there was such a sharp fall in the supply of crude oil to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u115	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u116	Yeah, 30 seconds. There are problems and economics, there are problems, unfortunately, and there are political problems. We're trying to solve both of these problems, but until they're fully solved, to the full extent possible, if there's any questions about the technology of this resource supply, Mr. Platchev, Minister of Fuel and Energy, better answer. It takes a minute. So the government is asking the Supreme Council to adopt a temporary bill that would allow the production and consumption of oil products in Ukraine to be maintained. The next government will move on to. It's already over, it's already started a fast-deversification delivery program, creating an intervention reserve, and regulating prices by market methods. But it takes time. Sadly, past governments did not pay enough attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u117	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Please sign up for questions. Yes, please show me on the monitors. Ten minutes. Please, Gizka, follow him, Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Minister! Whether the government has prepared further action if the measures that are being taken today do not produce the expected results. That's the first question. And secondly, transporting one ton of oil a thousand kilometers across the Baku-Novorosian pipeline costs $13.8. What is the cost of transporting Russian oil to Ukraine? And is this price of transporting oil across Ukraine convenient for Russia today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u119	If we start with the last question, unfortunately we did not agree with the Russian government to review the tariffs that have been set many years in advance for the transport of crude oil through Ukraine. Clearly, there was a connection at the time of the supply of oil to Urals at prices that were lower than the prices that were at. and this was linked to a decrease in oil transit tariffs. But unfortunately, today the prices for crude oil delivered for conversion to Ukrainian IAPZs are not lower, but higher than the equivalent prices for Urals on Platsi (?). And there's a very clear question about why Ukraine should support tariffs that are much smaller than transit tariffs in countries where these transit transports go, well, this is what Eastern European countries are meant to be, let's say, and so on. The government will hold further negotiations with the government of the Russian Federation on this issue, but I think this goes beyond the competence of economic agreements and has to be decided at a higher political level. Unfortunately, I can't tell you any more about this. Regarding the set of steps taken to correct the situation further. Yesterday, if you heard Prime Minister Timoshenko speak at a press conference, there was a set of measures that the government is planning to take. This is also the diversification of supplies, this is the solution to the fate of the Odessa-Broda pipeline, this is the construction of the switches from this pipeline to the refineries, this is the solution to the fate of the project, this is the solution to the fate of the construction of the oil refinery that would be connected to the Odessa-Broda pipe. And, in the end, this is the solution to the question of the further share of government property in the capital of the two IPAs and also to the solution of the fate of one IPA, which has been privatized, in our opinion, by a violation of legislation. After all, we have to have enough crude oil to consume 90 days of the country, and this is not a year, you know, it's expensive. And we plan to do that in at least three years. And this is the task of managing at least thirty percent of the retail market for oil products. Nor can this be done in one year. These are directions. That's a lot of money. We will appeal to the Supreme Council to provide adequate budgeting for the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u120	Sergey Anatolyevich, I'd like to ask you to respond more quickly. Because there are so many who want to hear the conviction or vote for the law. Please, Paklusenko, the faction of the regions. He's behind him, Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u121	Mr. Secretary, first of all, I want to thank you for being one of the governments that spoke the truth about re-evaluation. And today you must reaffirm your truth and say that it was an adventure that brought you here today for this rostrum in this capacity. Second question. We all know that the future is the future. And the real problem is being solved in Russia. And the wrong relationship that power is building with Russia today is not going to do any good. When will you build a proper good-neighbourly partnership with Russia? Second question. Again with the truth. When will the petrol breakup be over? And at what price will they stop? And third, tops. In order not to allow anyone to hide behind Parliament, I and my faction will vote in favour of your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the reason for my standing behind this rostrum. I'm not reporting the bill of National Deputy Salmin and I'm not commenting on it. This is going to be a separate procedure. So I'm reporting the current price situation in the oil market. Regarding your first question. It was put in context, if it was already clearly put in place, that the revision was related to the price market for petroleum products. I answer responsibly. No, I wasn't. Absolutely other reasons and motivations for the decision on such a harsh review were adopted as a basis. There was no relation to the situation in the oil market. The second question. About our relationship with the Russian Federation. I can tell you that our relationship is built on friendly and equal principles. I met twice, personally, with Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Victor Borisovich Christenko, where we discussed further cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, where we spoke separately about the development of our relationship in a fuel-energy complex. The Minister of Fuel and Energy was in Moscow many times, as his colleagues were in Kiev from the Russian Federation, where negotiations were resumed on all painful issues. I can tell you that not only did I have to meet with Christian, but with other seniors, let's say, with my call Mr. Greff, with whom we have a complex of problems, including the unification of approaches to the accession of Ukraine and the Russian Federation to the WTO, we have been discussed. So we're trying to build a friendly partnership with our neighbor. Unfortunately, the arrangement of private oil suppliers, once again, private oil suppliers, which is cartel-related, is not within the jurisdiction of the Russian Federation government today, because it is not subject to antitrust legislation by the Russian Federation. This is Ukraine’s problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u123	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u124	People's Party, Catherine Vaschuk. Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, as I analyzed the situation, I realized that it was the result of the well-known changes made to the budget that changed the total excise system for imported oil and processed oil in Ukraine. This has had a serious impact on oil supply, the price of oil products, or the situation in Ukraine. Sergei Anatoliyovich, I would like to know, who is the author of these great ideas, and who will answer for today's loss of hundreds of millions at the price of oil? Thank you. Unsaturated fields are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u125	I would answer yes, very briefly. Pricey, change in price patterns may and may have depended on the changes that were accepted in the budget in April, may have depended, however, on the greatest dependency again, and I am absolutely confident, as an economist, in the fine agreement of two suppliers, two suppliers of crude oil in Ukraine. That's it. So I don't want to answer: who is responsible for one reason: the issue of taxation, Katerina Timofievna, is no longer within Sergey Teryochina's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u126	Leonid Gaddewsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u127	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u128	Mikola Rudzkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u129	Rudkowski, Socialist faction. Mr. Secretary, instead, it doesn't seem to you that instead of standing on the stand and reporting on how many times our ministers are meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, discussing Ukraine's entry into the WTO, it might be possible to resolve the issue of an increase of 300,000 tonnes of supplies per month of crude oil to Ukraine, let's say on the Reserve. Recycle it in Ukrainian factories and thus remove the problem. It seems to me that once again, this form of warfare with the monopolies created in Ukraine, which is why millions of citizens suffer and walk, is not effective. As long as you don't sit down and settle down, the Supreme Council can give you a tool for that, by adopting the law, there will be nothing. You have to make a deal, you don't think.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u130	Thank you for Mr. Rudzkowski's advice, we do it and we try to do it. Two government memorandums have been signed and Ukraine’s oil - processing entities have been signed. These memorandums recorded mutual obligations, on the one hand, on price terms, on the other hand, on government regulation, on the other hand, on the assumption of repayment of VAT debts, on the other hand, on the basis of tariff policy and so forth. Unfortunately, this memorandum existed, its operation took place in a normal situation for a month and was violated by one of the parties, not by the government of Ukraine. So you know, when there are gentlemen's arrangements and when they're not being implemented, then there's got to be some kind of protective measure that's going to be applied. We accepted them and sat down again at the negotiating table. The Minister of Fuel and Energy can tell us what mode we've been working with representatives of the oil processing sector for the past three weeks. I'm sorry. Here's an example for you without a last name. So let's say it's said that it's promised that there's a supply of 200,000 tons per of these NCDs in these terms. We plan the price of the conjuncture, the supply to the market, and we tell you the glory of God. Then we do price regulation and things like that, coming out of these quantities of processing and supply. After that, it takes four days and there is no oil. He's asking, where's the oil? Someone didn't sign the certificate. And that's where Weinstoch didn't put the transit. And that's the wrong quota. You know, we're an honest government, I hope. And we want to work honestly with our partners. The problem in one country is that the state of Ukraine is now completely removed from the management of the oil market at all. So I told you what measures we want to take to restore government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u131	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider our own Act amending the customs tariff of Ukraine on the stabilization of prices in the market for petroleum products. Three minutes, please log in. Prepare Oleg Salmin and then head of the committee. On the board, please. Yuri Carmazin, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Do we have the head of the Cabinet of Ministers Salmin? No, it's not. So far, Julia Timoshenko. Thus, perhaps once so, it should also be clearly recorded in the procedure, namely, the procedure and the law, where the position of the government should be clearly expressed. And there was the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'd like to ask her to consider this, because the whole country is standing in the ears today. Nobody understands why several of the owners of factories stolen from Ukraine put the country in a position called Odessa, the letter "Zu". So let's now invite both the government and let the government draw their conclusions and draw the conclusions of the Budget Committee. They should also be invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I think we have a procedural problem. When the information was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, but it is not discussed in an orderly manner. So, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't think it would be a violation of the Rules if, during the discussion, not only the bill of our colleague Salmin, but also the information discussed by the representative of the government, Sergey Terjohin. I think it's gonna be okay. And a replica, part of my reply to my esteemed colleague, who claimed a few seconds ago that the NCDs had been stolen in Ukraine. I would like to add: during the Prime Minister of the Honourable Victor Andriovich Yashchenka and the Vice-Prime Minister of the Honourable Julia Volodymirirovna Timoshenko. And to whom you have gone away, you will understand without comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u135	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, we are currently discussing procedural issues. And I think we need to go outside and see what's going on, what's going on next to filling stations, how do we provide industry, oil agriculture? And it will make it easier for us to understand how and what we need to discuss with you. Therefore, there is a proposal - let us follow the logic of the Conciliation Council - to discuss and make a decision rather than to engage in casusism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u137	Yes, thank you. More? Please, Rudzkowski. There's still time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u138	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Two months ago, we warned that the oil supply situation in Ukraine was quite critical and that radical measures were needed. Some steps have been taken to reduce the supply of oil in Ukraine. And I'm saying to the Minister of Energy right now, this disgraceful decision to ban the export of light petroleum products from Ukraine has led you to reduce the radical supply of oil to Ukrainian NPPs because they don't know at what prices they're going to supply oil. And now you're signing yourself up, passing this law that there's no oil available, and you need to apologize for the oil. That's how we have to cancel that decision first in order to re-load our factories, and secondly, to regulate price excises in light of the oil products. Otherwise, we will not get out of the crisis, and this law will not help in its entirety.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u139	Thank you. We exchanged thoughts about the procedure. Dear colleagues, we are now going to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on price stability in the oil market. I think in the process of discussing this bill we're going to talk about both the reasons and the state of affairs in the oil market. Oleg Salmin, three minutes. Please. Prepare Sergey Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Today we have a very important bill to consider, which will largely determine the future situation in the oil market and in general in the country, what is being said today is that we need to go out and see what is real. To date, this market has faced a very difficult situation: high-octane A-92 gasoline, A-95 are missing and there is no free sale of cash in most areas of Ukraine. For example, out of 6,000 filling stations, 3.5 thousand are now in cash and only 2.5 thousand are in cash. This situation is getting worse every day. A relatively stable situation exists only in the three-region auto-fuelling stations - Winnitskaya, Odessa and Poltava region - and this is a temporary situation. There are several reasons for this tension. First, there was a decline in the processing of Ukrainian NPPs in connection with repairs at factories in Lisicansk and Herson. Second, the supply of oil to the Cremenchug and Drogobyczski NPZ has decreased. The Odessa PNP processing decreased. Thirdly, steps have been taken to delineate the oil sector and increase the taxation of petroleum products, leading to the emergence or increase of a tax component in the price of U.N.P. oil products. In addition, the cost of importing fuel has increased, which has always been a market counterweight for Ukrainian producers. As mentioned here, the price of Ukrainian oil today varies between 3.25 and 3.40. Moreover, since June the export duty will be raised by Russia to $136. This will all affect, again, the price policy for June and the following months. With a view to normalizing the situation in the oil market by reducing the tax component, as well as liberalizing the supply of imported petroleum products in agreement with the President's Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, and, at a very important point, the oil market participants by all participants: both oil traders and refineries, the Bill 7407, which you have received today, is proposed. I would like to point out that this is one of the few examples where a compromise has been found between all the parties and a concrete result has been obtained in the form of a bill. He proposed eliminating import duties for imported high-octane petrol and diesel. In addition, the bill proposes to return to a fixed excise duty rate of EUR 60 per tonne of petrol-95 and 95 and all other light petroleum products and EUR 30 per tonne of diesel. I remind you that these rates have been in place in Ukraine for the past few years. At the same time, according to the changes in the 2005 budget, the excise duty rates on petroleum products have also been changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u141	Is there no objection to continuing? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u142	In this situation, I am discussing the essence of the law: 60 euros per tonne of light petroleum products and 30 euros per disfuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u143	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u144	Okay. Suffice it to say that individual shipments of imported petroleum products were distributed in April with excise duty, twice the ex-fixed rate being more than 120 euros. This was one of the price increases at the filling stations. Moreover, this has been one of the steps taken in the refinery of petroleum products. And so far, very much is being imported through black schemes into the market. There is absolute confidence that the proposed bill, which removes the import duty and establishes, above all, excise duty rates, will fill the market with petroleum products, as well as create the ground for the creation of a highly competitive market for petroleum products. The calculations show that, at today's import price level, 92 and 95 and the proposed reduction in taxes on imports of these petroleum products into Ukraine will be able to provide an acceptable level of profitability for retail networks for trade at the price established by the Cabinet of Ministers, i.e. 3.20 per 95 petrol and all other components of the price of 92nd and diesel fuel. But most important. I want to make sure that your attention is more focused. The most important thing, however, is that the adoption of the bill will allow the owners of the NHRIs, the Ukrainian NHRIs. So it's a June contract starting at the 20th. That is, if we do not adopt this bill today, factories are failing to negotiate oil for June, and we are with you with a complete deficit in June. I would like to receive special attention. It should also be noted that the abolition of import duties lies in the context of Ukraine's eventual accession to the World Trade Organization. Finally, I note that today the National Bank needs to take a closer look at the exchange price for the bracelet and the dollar that went up is now $5.1. And that's why it's also going to be a fraction of the price of petroleum products, because all of the calculations will go through this component. I would like the National Bank to take this carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, please sign up for three minutes. If there is-- sign up, there's no-- we'll thank you. Three minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u146	..to hand over the Kachure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u147	Paul Kachur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u148	Dear reporter, I have two short questions. First. In its underlying economic and financial impact, it's such an interesting phrase that it might have an impact. If so, he will be partially compensated. The budget is a very clear document that has an income section and a corresponding expenditure portion. Please specify whose account will be taken of the calculation of the fuel-energy complex policy? And the second question. The reduction in rates is still an impact on oil processing. Rates were introduced to load oil companies. What happens if two or three weeks from now, oil comes into Ukraine and oil refineries work, how does the reduction in the rates that we put in today work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u149	On the first question. With regard to the budget component. To date, unfortunately, there is virtually no budget for the deficit in the oil market, and you understand that very well. And we need to understand clearly, diversify revenue into the budget. If we put a real price on excise, we get real income in the budget. If you and I drive the oil price back into the corner tomorrow, and it will automatically go there, we won't get any budget contributions. This regulation is therefore applicable in all countries of the world. If we want to have a fixed price at the filling stations, the State should include a control mechanism through excise duties. That's what all countries use. That's the first one. Second. To date, this bill, I said, is a compromise, including the days of refineries. They are interested in buying Russian oil today at the price that it is, in parallel, to import light petroleum products, for example 95, because production is very small at factories, and thus they will diversify their arrival through imports of light petroleum products and the purchase of oil, processing at their own factories, on their own capacities in the implementation of the same diesel fuel and implementation, for example, of oil and all other components.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u150	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u151	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Peter Vladimirovich! In his report, Sergey Anatolevich Terehin described the four main elements of the situation, why we have found such a situation very little from Russia, reduced the share of income and processing by four or more times. One of them was exports of petroleum products from Ukraine, exports from Ukraine were petroleum products. I cannot understand why we allowed Ukraine's exports of petroleum products, which reduced its status in Ukraine. This time. And my voters are wondering, "What's the price of gasoline going to be when we vote on this law? What will people get, what will be the price for one or the other?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u152	Thank you for asking. I've already been Prime Minister, Peter has become Prime Minister now, thank you. Actually, I want to tell you that prices will remain the same. And the bill specifically places pricing at the level of filling stations. This is the first, that is, we are approaching the adoption of this bill. That's the first one. Second, on exports of light petroleum products. I support what the Cabinet of Ministers did for one simple reason: in fact, refineries knew that there would be a shortage of light petroleum products in factories. However, the same Cremenchug oil refinery has made large export components and other refineries large export components. It can be said that the State has not examined, has not developed any concept of working with oil refineries. The only thing to say at that point was that there was a new Cabinet of Ministers, and probably a vacuum, so to speak, and there was this situation in the oil refineries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u153	Yes. Thank you, sit down, Oleg Volodymyrovich, time is up. Sergey Burjak, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we are all well aware of the situation that has now taken place in the country's oil market, but what is the problem? According to the Committee on Finance and Banking, the problem is that Ukraine's legislation to amend the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 and some other Ukrainian legislation introduced a combined rate of excise duty on petrol and motors, diesel-sized: petrol engines - 20% to turnover from the price of implementation, but not less than 60 euros per tonne; diesel fuel - 10% to turnover from the price of implementation, but not less than 30 euros per tonne. We remember well who voted in favour of this bill, that is, we are all together. During the time that has passed since the entry into force of the Law, the imperfections of the system and the level of the rates introduced can be noted. So the draft law was submitted by the MP. is proposed to return to the system and to the level of excise duty rates for petrol and motor and diesel fuels that worked before the adoption of the above law. So gasoline, motors -- 60 euros per tonne, diesel fuel -- 30 euros per tonne. In addition, I would like to stress the proposal of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act to introduce a zero import rate for petrol-fuelled motor and diesel fuel. In our view, the changes in legislation that have been noted will contribute to the saturation of the oil market and thus allow the situation that has arisen for the time being. The Committee on Finance and Banking considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u155	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen. And we don't usually assign honorary colleagues to the committee. Just a minute. Have a seat, please. We continue our work for 15 minutes to consider this bill. Please give the name of the national MPs who signed up for the speech. Let's have 20 minutes to talk. Oh, we're still talking about unacceptables. Time is set for us. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. Please tell me if we are going to the GAT SOT, as we discussed an hour ago, right here in the upper room of Ukraine, this is a question that we have even adopted the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue, an acquittal. Although our faction did not vote in favour of this decree. Come on, the Council has decided. Then the second question. Do we want to play by market economy rules on the oil and gas market? And that's where the key question is no. Ukraine wants to integrate itself into Europe and the World Trade Organization, but so that post-Radians will provide it with oil and gas based on those old Soviet habits, by rules and prices. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be honest and honest. That's impossible. And again, and again, we're hanging a paw on our ears, as if that northern neighbor is doing the wrong thing and not the right thing. Like that notorious dancer. The cartel plot mentions two oil suppliers. Would you please tell me this is Lukoil? Please tell me, is this TNC, BP? Please tell me it's just Russian capital and business? There's the world's capital and business, and it runs Russian capital and business! What do you want to fight with the World Trade Organization and Europe, even besides Russia? Please move in this direction! And I want to say again and again and again, the question is not to intimidate any of the owners of these IPAs who got these IPAs from the lenient attitude of former Prime Minister Yashchenk and Deputy Prime Minister of the fuel-energy complex Timoshenko, the question is that this whole set of natural monopolies should belong to the State, that is, the Ukrainian people! On this we stand, stand, and stand! And finally about the bill. What are they offering us? Let's see. We're offered zero rates for imports of light petroleum products from Baltia, Poland, etc. Who's going to win? A consumer? I'm sorry, no! They're going to win those commercial structures. who will choose, as it were, an honest and transparent government to carry out this commercial activity. And who and who are going to get away with it, we can not only guess, but we can even count. So what I'm saying is, this bill is extremely dangerous, it's on two sides, just like the stick -- and when and who.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u157	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Michael Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk oblast, People's Party faction. The situation that has taken place today in the market for petroleum products can be expressed as they say in the people: "Well, glory to you, O Lord, have been made. Because first it's 95th, now it's starting to disappear, including diesel. Hence, our eternal question is: Who is to blame, and what should we do? So speaking of who is to blame, I would like to recall that two months ago, when changes and additions were made to the current budget this year, the faction of the People's Party proved that changes in excise policies in the market for petroleum products would result in a deficit and therefore a lack of petroleum products for the consumer. That's what we got today. I want to say it again. Two months ago, when budget changes were made, the People's Party's faction suggested that the topic should not be touched. We have been accused of any mortal sin, except what we wanted and did not want. Regrettably, once again, today we find a solution to what our faction insisted on two more months ago: returning the excise system as it was. Moreover, the proposal of zero import duty for diesel fuel 92, 95 can be discussed today, as would be the case, but the problem is once again the following. We will now be able to fill the market with petroleum products, products or we will continue to talk and talk again about the fates of the nation, the problems of the average citizen, and the oil products, both absent and absent. And the last. I would still like to focus on two aspects of the investigation and the proposal for what to do for the future. First. We are deeply convinced that we must, first of all, advise, as the Supreme Council, and that the Cabinet of Ministers must take the appropriate action, and we must establish a contingency fund for oil products for cleaning. Otherwise, the cleaning will come, and we will again face the fact that oil shortages will be present, and this will again create problems that will eventually grow in the absence of and prices for oil products. And the last. I would like to hear that, unfortunately, this topic has not yet been heard by the Special Fund, through which roads are being repaired, which is today about 3.8 billion bracelets in this year's budget, which are being formed through oil excises. Roads - we also have a problem in the State and I would like to understand, accordingly, how will this problem be addressed when making changes? In general, the faction of the People's Party believes that the bill must be adopted, not only because our colleague is a co-sponsor, but because the oil situation does not tolerate any delays and needs urgent solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u159	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u160	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I want to talk to the radio audience: the national socialists who have come to power today are systematically and constantly putting us in some kind of crisis: meat. Today we are looking at a petrol crisis. They always say, "If you don't vote, the country is over." I want to tell the radio audience about the oil crisis. The first is the criminal privatization by the Government of Yushchenko of NHRIs and the destruction of the public filling system. Secondly, this is our country's free policy towards Russia. In 100 days, what did Russia go through? It was driven from the Black Sea fleet, it was kissed here with Georgia and ripped off Russia, it's the UN-OPA, who. It's a non-recognizance of the outcome of the Great Homeland War, and it's Uzbekistan today. And to tell you the truth, any respectable country should have finally responded to that question, and it responded. Dear radios, just so you know, Russia just stopped supplying oil for seven days and made an imbalance of petroleum products. Now, they want to carry out this law of so-called deversification. What is it? It's the imports of light petroleum products, past our NPPs, that thousands of people are busy. If we adopt this law, we are necessarily leaving these people unemployed and these people will be thrown overboard. And the other side of the question, very nicely, Kachure asked his colleagues a question. He said, "What happens if the oil starts pumping?" This law creates the conditions for oil, which even if processed, to pass through zero rates. That's the ideology of this law. If we agree to that, then we will continue to exacerbate the crisis. The nationalists are screaming here. I will tell them what needs to be done: it is the first thing to do, as in any European country, to resign. As soon as you retire, we'll sit at the negotiating table, talk to Russia, and we'll get oil. If we don't do this, we'll make things worse. By procedure. In no case do we have the right to ask the question "in the first reading and in general". We must accept it in the first, we categorically object to the question of “in general”. That is, today’s speech can be like the first reading. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of the bill. And let us not be intimidated by the fact that the country is supposed to stop there and so on. This government will leave, life will be restored.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u161	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u163	May I have your attention, fellow officers? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u164	You know, after I saw on Sunday that the Minister of Transport is taking on a new mode of transport, cognac, I realized that there is an imminent energy crisis in this country. But such a law will not solve the energy crisis in Ukraine. I'm talking to the Minister of Economics. You're basically putting oil refineries in a situation where you can essentially cut them into scrap metal, because you're adopting a law that, on the one hand, you're putting them in unequal conditions of the Ukrainian manufacturer: you're putting zero in the light of the oil products on imports, while Russia and Belarus are all interested in keeping our factories standing. These are thousands of jobs. On the one hand. On the other hand, there is a way out. You're not saying you're coming back in three weeks with a new law and you're changing excise duties, or excise rates. Because these bets, 60 euros, don't solve the price problem. Of the 60 euros and the export duties that Russia has, the price of the oil products will be 3.50-3.70. You're not saying anything. First of all, we need 60 euros of excise duty to be reduced to 30. This will give us the opportunity to have 2.80-2.70 price in light of the oil products. Right away, if we vote. This is the first time. Second of all, there's no way you can import a zero bet in the light of oil products! We need to vote, Sergey Anatoliyovich, listen to me and agree to give the government the right to regulate the amount of oil duty, let's say for three months. What this will give you. Sergey Anatolyevich, please listen. Ivan the Hare, stay out of it. This will allow you, Sergey Anatoliyovich, to sit down with the producers at the table and say, "Or we'll make you a low import duty in the light of the oil products, or look for oil and process it here, we'll keep it high." Otherwise you don't have a tool. You're going from one liberal administrative extreme to one liberal. And you need tools that will allow you to arrange with the oil traders if they don't want to. The government's right to regulate import duties in light of oil products is what you need. Otherwise you'll take a zero bet, no one in the government will go to you, because you won't be needed. And you'll be in Moscow at least 20 times, you won't solve anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, is invited to speak. Prepare Yuri Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Let's talk and look the truth in the eye -- there are elements of an extraordinary state in Ukraine that threaten Ukraine's national security. Period. Next. How to get out and who to blame. Now I care as much about who's to blame as how to get out of this situation. Please tell me, is there an oil refinery in Ukraine? There's nothing left. The government says, and it's broadcast on television, so let's build a new factory in Odessa, and we've given it up for three million -- artificial debt. I wrote, I asked a question here from the rostrum. Where's the Attorney General? Where's Piscoon? Why isn't anyone in the guard yet? All factories are illegally taken, all of them. Return the factories, they will draw oil and find where her brothers, the honourable ones, will find where the brothers are. Next. What's the cost of transportation? The price of transporting oil on the Baku-Novorian pipeline is $16.6 per tonne by 120 kilometers. We're transporting a little less than a thousand. Let's count the price of oil. We have the world price, the world price. And what about the quality of our oil products that are sold to us that match the quality of the world? You've been diluting all of our gasoline with ass urine for a long time. Well, that's why they used to put you in jail, and now nobody's gonna check who's doing it. Therefore, Your Honor, this problem cannot be approached. They spill water because no words are spoken today, water is poured out, donkeys are moved to other chairs. All right, ladies and gentlemen, until we have control of the NCDs. I could give you an example. The "Qurtatnafta" tricked the stupid Ukrainians just 43 percent, not 50 plus one; take "Lukoil" too, and they don't even put documents on securities today, on everything else. And so every factory, every one of them. So I think we need to take completely different measures to make the situation normal. And here we have to invite not only a minister who is not responsible for these questions, but also the head of the company Scrooge of others, so they have to be invited here so they can inform us. Well, we invited a minister who's not answering today. Why It Is Not Responding
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u167	Yes. Thank you. Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko, a faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, is invited to speak. Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party has spent more than 10 years trying to draw the attention of many governments to an energy crisis that is on the rise each year. What we're going through today is the payout for the absence of a state policy on energy security for an independent Ukrainian state, it's the payoff for all the years of government independence, not Yushchenk, you're talking about Yashchenka, and governments have all taken steps to increase energy dependence on Russia, not reduction through the adoption of systemic decisions. I'm going to remind you that every developed state of the world has laws on energy security for the state. Because without energy, the economy of the state can't function, and that's how any state exists. So these laws limit the power of the state to buy oil, to buy nuclear fuel from one source more than 20-40 percent. For five years now, I have been in the Cabinet of Ministers with a bill that neither the Cabinet of Ministers nor the Supreme Council are considering. And whose approval would allow it to be forced by the act of government law to think about diversification of energy sources. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that the energy crisis that has been experienced in most countries of the world is being resolved at a systemic level. Not by adopting a reduction in duties, or by transporting light petroleum products, or even oil, but through the government's systematic multi-level actions to reduce the energy consumption of the economy, not just diversification, aloe and development of those energy policies that the state has. I'm going to remind you that France, without its own sources of organic fuel, is doing 80% of its energy consumption exclusively on the basis of nuclear energy. When did we, dear friends, consider such a problem complex in the Supreme Council? Not once. So to conclude, I want to say that by supporting these urgent steps by the government, I would like to emphasize that a comprehensive programme is needed, that respectable government officials, without which Ukraine will necessarily be in an energy crisis, and then the whole economy will stop. And to the end. It is necessary to determine the operation of this law by September 1, 2005, that is, to set the term, and to import products forever, and the economy is falling apart. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u169	Bogdan Hubsky, "The One Ukraine", the last speaker. Prepare to justify the draft decision on the inadmissibility of Yuri Carmazin. Invite the national deputies to the session room. We'll be making decisions soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u170	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I think that the situation in the oil market needs to be addressed in the context of general changes in the state, in society. Today, in fact, the struggle for the fate of the President's radical change, the struggle for the fate of our Ukrainian people and for our future. And today's fuel crisis is one of the key moments in this fight. It is not a secret that the very high level of dependence on external energy sources is the main Achilles ’ fifth economy. And we need an alternative source of oil and oil. But for the future. It is now necessary to take urgent measures to eliminate the current crisis. Clearly, this crisis has in many cases been provoked. Because we understand that some want to continue to use their monopoly to gain income. Let's compare. In the United States, a gallon of fuel is transferred to the bracelet about three bracelets. So why do we have low wages, relatively low taxes, low-cost pipeline transport prices for gasoline are significantly higher. And that's why we think that the government in charge of the Prime Minister is absolutely justified in fighting for it. Monopolies. This fight for our Ukrainian people. And the "One Ukraine" party is absolutely supporting the fight for our fellow citizens. And a perfectly logical step in this direction is to participate in the internal market for imported petroleum products. Now we have to urgently lower the price of oil products, because it's not just a matter of the welfare of our fellow citizens, it's a matter of the national security of our nation. Each cent of the increase in the price of gasoline is in the pocket of a Ukrainian citizen. That's 15 million. Ukrainian citizens. And Ukrainian peasants have to be provided with cheap oil products? Who says no? I have to. Moreover, the cost of oil products affects the price of each unit of food — the meat, the milk at a price at which we are fighting with you today. It is therefore necessary to urgently adopt a bill that will allow the number of imported petroleum products to be increased and the price of gasoline reduced. We'll bring the price of gas in the next week to two bracelets and 90 copies. It's totally real. The inclusion of imported fuel will allow us to fill our market. So the "One Ukraine" faction will certainly vote for lowering the price of gasoline, for saturation of the Ukrainian oil market, for cheap fuel for Ukrainian peasants. And we ask you to support this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u171	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin for the basis of the draft decision on non-admissibility, please. Are you filming, Yuri Anatolyovich? Oh, no? Yeah? Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I have decreed that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the stabilization of prices in the market for petroleum products is unacceptable because the draft Law I have called 7407 does not correspond to the provisions of the first and second sections of Article 6.2. 7 The Supreme Council Rules do not contain guidelines for expected socio-economic and other consequences of their application, financial and economic justification and proposals for the coverage of material and other expenditures at the expense of the State or local budgets that require the implementation of the bill. As a result of this adoption, Ukraine’s government will disagree with a reduction in incomes or the emergence or increase in expenditures from Ukraine’s State or Local Budgets. If it's in the first version of Law 7407. And we've already been given a third version of the law for today. During the day, we received a third draft of this law. I remind those who have missed, perhaps alone. If the first version of the law suggested that the law was imposed for three months, it is not written at all for what time. It's just being introduced forever. Is that normal? It's not normal. Therefore, to adopt laws like this from a condom in the first reading and in general when they do not have the conclusions of a budget committee, when they do not have the conclusions of a government when there is no such thing. Let them sign here and give it to me, the Prime Minister. I can't see where. What are the more important things today than the energy security issues of Ukraine? There is no more important question in the state today. I don't know what we've been turned into today, why that's what's happening today. A complex question has to be written about factories. And there's no such thing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that we ourselves comply with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an organic part of our legislation. And I would ask that we write down in the decree that we draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council, who is honored by me, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, to the inadmissibility of registering and putting into order the daily plenary meeting of drafts, whose implementation requires an increase in the material and other expenditure on government or local budgets and which are inconsistent with the government and do not have the conclusion of a committee on budgetary matters and other economic committees. We should have these conclusions in our hands. In order to stabilize the situation in Ukraine, the author and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within two days to provide the Supreme Council with calculations on the expenditure of the State or local budget that will require the adoption of the draft laws. And give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u173	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Now we, my dear fellows, are going to talk about unacceptableness, and then there will be motives. These are other projects if the Supreme Council doesn't support them. Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, author of the Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Karmazin on the inadmissibility of Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on price stability in the oil market, is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 7407/P]] Unacceptability is a matter of voting. [[14:18:38]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Attention, fellow citizens, before voting on the draft Law, for our own reasons, they were not able to speak. Please, for your reasons, give you the right to do so. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare. Well, you're gonna come out, but don't yell, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u174	Dear National Deputies, John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I think you understand from the discussion that this bill will not solve the fuel crisis in principle. In order to solve this crisis once and for all, we need to make essentially three decisions. First of all, it's to determine the term of this law, and I'd agree to it for three months. The other one. The government should submit a bill which obliges the government to work on energy diversification, to specify the specific terms as they work to fill the Odessa-Broda pipe and so on. And the third thing I'm proposing is to strengthen the state's influence on oil refineries. Those shares that the state has, they get stronger. And management needs to get stronger. We should always keep in mind that a wise nation buys raw materials, not ready - to - produce. That's why we need oil, not fuel. Oil today can be bought and processed in our factories and given to our people. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u175	Mikhailo Ratushny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u176	Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian National Party I reaffirm once again the position of our faction that we are only considering adopting such a law by September 1st, once again. And once again, we need to pay particular attention to the technical possibility of receiving non-Russian oil from the West Ukrainian NPPs since April 2003. Both the factories -- "Drobic" and "Outdoor" -- reported "Stricttransnaft" about the willingness to take processing, oil from the Caspian region. That is, if the Odessa-Bride oil pipeline were directly operating, we wouldn't have had this situation today in the fuel market that we're seeing. The Odessa-Brody oil pipeline has robbed Ukraine of its technical ability to get oil. I told the Prime Minister today that the same people -- Boyka, Pinchuka -- are staying in that market segment again. As long as this is the case, the widow will hang on the neck of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u177	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u178	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, I was intrigued by the offer of a previous speaker to remove them from the market, these people. I don't know, I'd like to make an offer right now. And once again, I would like to point out that at this point we are talking about making the customs border that is in Ukraine an economic border -- let's not forget. And then the state can, should and should regulate the situation. If it's three months or two months or months or months, it doesn't play a significant role. In this situation, the market will tell you when to give up a similar incentive to import light fuel here. So I fully support the government's position, and not just because I'm in the right faction -- so that's the logic and the healthy spirit of this law. I'd go even more radically: I'd give up excise duty, but once we've gone to the producers' concessions, then, in principle, I want to emphasize that this is a sufficiently balanced law. And I'm saying once again, whoever wants gas in Ukraine to go cheap has to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u179	Valentin Zubov. He's refusing, isn't he?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u180	No, it's just not connected. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you very much. Dear colleagues, to be serious, we are today considering, not an economic problem, but a purely political problem. For the first time in 2005, a serious and very active attack was launched against the new Prime Minister, the new President and the entire people of Ukraine. In fact, they're showing us, trying to demonstrate one truth -- who's in the landlord's house? Therefore, I appeal to all those present in the Hall, to all the people's deputies, to forget for a moment at least all our contradictions. We have indeed found ourselves in a very difficult situation. Those who planned this action are well aware that if we do not solve this problem, then there will be a threat to the new crop, so there will be no longer an economic problem, but a food problem that poses a serious threat to the economic security of the country. So about you, let's vote it all out in the first reading, and finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-17-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I beg of you, we must prepare for the parliamentary hearings yet. At the vote, everyone's attention, please. Proposal by the Committee on Adoption as a basis in the first reading and as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian law on amending certain Ukrainian laws on price stability in the oil market. Registration number 7407. Please vote. [[14:24:24]] For 310 The law is passed. The factions, please. I, the honourable colleagues, put to the vote a proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis in the first reading and generally as a bill of law. You voted. "Our Ukraine" - 67, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 36, National Party - 32, SPU - 21, Block Timoshenko - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, SDPU - 20, "One Ukraine" - 20, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 12, "Union" - 13, non-fractional - 22. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 3 p.m., parliamentary hearings will begin, and there will be committees, parliamentary groups and factions. Tomorrow we'll start our plenary meeting at 10 a.m. schedule for Wednesday.
