ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, turn on the council system. Let's register. [[16:02:17]] There are 388 national deputies registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Yes, dear colleagues, as we agreed, I will make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “By the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and the protocol of the National Assemblys of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies of 7 September 2005, I inform you of the formation in connection with the restructuring of the faction of our Ukraine’s political party Reform and Order, the faction of the Reform and Order is reduced. The Reform and Order Party's MPs include 15 Ukrainian national deputies. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Vladislavovich, was elected Head of the MP. People’s deputies were elected as authorized representatives of the faction: Soboljeva Sergia Vladislavovich, Bondarenko Volodymira Dmitrovic, Filenko Volodymira Pilipovic. The entire list will be resolved. Dear colleagues, this is the Reform and Order Party, and I have the appropriate documents from the Ministry of Justice that say that since August 2, 2005, there is a political party of Reform and Order. It's very good that we took you and agreed to the faction, took the time-out, as they say, and now everything, as it were, is legal and corresponds to the real state of things. We're continuing our consideration of the short-term issues -- those are the issues that we left unresolved yesterday. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on age limits for civil servants and scientific workers]] Short-term procedure. Registration number 7648. The reporter for Musiak's initiative, Viktor Lavrentiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the current Pension Insurance Act, the State Service has established that the age of service is 60 years for men and 55 years for women. If necessary, the head of the public authority, in agreement with the Chief of State Service at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, may extend the term of service but not more than five years. Moreover, in exceptional cases after the end of the term, government officials may be left in public service only in the positions of counsellors, or consultants, as decided by the head of the relevant public authority. In addition, there was a problem when it came to leaving high - school officials who had reached the age of 65 as if they had reached the age of 65. And the Constitutional Court of 56 National Deputies concluded on 7 July 2004 that it does not conform to the Constitution of Ukraine is not a constitutional position according to which the candidate’s age for head of the higher education institution of the third or fourth level of accreditation cannot exceed 65 years. The position of paragraph 2 of Part 1, article 39 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is declared unconstitutional and invalid. The bill proposes to bring the laws of Ukraine into force, which are regulated in relation to the sphere of public service and in the field of scientific activity, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, here are the positions I am talking about. Furthermore, article 24 of the Constitution provides that Ukrainian citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law, and according to part two of this article there can be no privileges or restrictions on race, colour of skin, political, religious and other beliefs, sex, ethnic and social origin, property status, language or other characteristics. Of course, such signs include the age of a citizen, and restrictions on human and civil rights cannot be imposed on age. The International Labour Organization also said that there can be no restrictions on the right to work for older people. They have the right to work as long as they want to work on their own, of course, with appropriate data that they can work on their health and so on. There are limitations to the law as to where the conditions are natural, of course they are recognized, and such restrictions are established. For example, when it comes to law enforcement officials, military officials, and so on. Well, for the employees of the higher education institutions, the scientific institutions are also being asked to make an appropriate change, which provides for the removal of this restriction. We have to say that the practice of countries in developed democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u4	Germany, the Netherlands, France, and so on testify that the retirement age means the right of a civil servant or a scientist to form a pension, in no way presupposes a requirement without the desire of a person who has reached retirement age to leave the job or position that he holds. Thus, the draft law will remove the contradictions that have arisen in the Ukrainian legislation on public service, in the legislation on scientific, scientific and pedagogical activities and in the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as international normative instruments in the field of human rights protection and the exercise of the right to work. Moreover, I'll tell you that the project does not entail additional budgetary costs, so it does not require financial and economic justification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Vitaly Oluiko Profile Committee, the State Building Committee, and local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u6	Honourable National Deputies, during a meeting of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government made some remarks to the bill. Given that the committee agrees with the Committee's decision on science and education issues and the conclusion of the General Scientific and Export Authority on the adoption of the bill as a basis and in the first reading, taking into account the comments made and proposals made to it by the legislators. In favour of 9 votes against 2 national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u7	Yes. Thank you. Shall we discuss it? It's all clear. Dear colleagues, I propose to support the wise decisions of the committee and the authors of the legislative initiative and to support this bill in the first reading. I am betting on a vote on the adoption of a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on age restrictions for public officials and scientific workers. Bill registration number is 7648. Please vote. [[16:11:01]] For 217 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 49, National Party – 29, Block Timoshenko – 35, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Socialist – 1, Social Democrats – 0, “One Ukraine” – 4, “Democratic Ukraine” – 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, National Movement of Ukraine – 1, non-fractional – 11. There is a proposal to vote on the vote. I'm asking you to vote for the offer. [[16:11:55]] For 227 We've made up our minds. Dear colleagues, here we were exchanging thoughts, reminding me that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court to restrict, remove, age. And we confirm that, by this law, we confirm the Constitutional Court's decision, in fact, we regulate it, and we regulate it by law. It'll be the butter of mush, as they say, you won't spoil it. I am voting on the adoption of a law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on age restrictions for public officials and scientific workers. Registration number 7648, please vote. [[16:13:08]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions? Please. “Our Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 50, National Party – 37, Block Timoshenko – 38, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Socialists – 0, Social Democrats – 0, “One Ukraine” – 18, “Democratic Ukraine” – 17, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 15. I mean, I mean, second reading, there's a denial of acceptance, right? I see. Cibenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u8	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm in the morning today, but the last one in the agenda for consideration of the reduced procedure is Bill 7529. “On amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection”. [[on the credit supply of a cremated balloon gas]] The questions are extremely painful. Social. And he needs his immediate solution. I would ask that we now use what we are currently doing in this procedure to consider this bill. It'll take us five minutes, no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, will there be any objections? Then it is your will. A draft of the Law “On Amendments to the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection in respect of Spent Gas Payments, Registration Number 7529. The author of the initiative of Legislature National MP Noshchenko Mikola Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u10	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I, as a Ukrainian national deputy, as well as my colleagues, have received numerous appeals from disabled people and participants in the Great Homeland War about the return of the clumped gas to domestic needs. I'll just read the last one. It came from the invalids who participated in the war yesterday. [[Sumska oblast, Krolevetsky district, Bistrick village]] Stepanka Katerina Ivanovna writes: “ By the end of March 2005, a new government had taken away a gas balloon that had been issued for a year even at Kuchma. We need this one balloon very much. We, the disabled, are very concerned about this misconduct and ask the people's deputies to return this gas balloon to us." Two words about the history of this question. For 10 years in a row, this aid was granted in accordance with the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection, but this year officials found out that there is no word for “gas scrapped” in this law, there is a benefit for natural gas. I raised this question from this rostrum on July 6th and asked Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrina, former Prime Minister, to put these two words into the Cabinet of Ministers' decision and settle the matter. Moreover, in the 2005 budget, 36 million 686,000 are foreseen for these purposes. However, the government did not hear the requests of my constituents, which I spoke from this rostrum. It is therefore proposed to settle this issue, to make these two words in paragraphs five, parts 12, 13, 14, 15 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection, and to write after the words “for the use of utility services to supplement accordingly with the words“and a crinkled balloon gas for household needs). [[gas, electricity and other services]] In paragraph seven of article 16 of the same law, these two words are also written. The additional budget for this year, and in the following year, we will anticipate, is not foreseen, as already foreseen in the budget. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Committee is positive, which I thank you for. Please support this bill. It will really be a concern for our disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u11	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. A little clarification: Not just your constituents, but all of us are required to do so. And we thank you for taking the initiative. Shall we vote? Let's vote. Are they written down for the performance? I don't have a record of this. Dear colleagues, let's vote. It's like God's day. Vote. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on bonded balloon gas payment]] Registration number 7529. Please vote. [[16:19:00]] For 296 Dear colleagues, here are two sentences. Perhaps if it were your will, we would accept it immediately as a law. No objections? We are voting for adoption as the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on bonded balloon gas payment]] Registration number 7529. Please support me as a law as a whole. [[16:19:40]] For 315 Thank you. I say again, don't throw it in my face. I have a computer that shows me what. You prove it, go there, not prove it to me! Get out of here! I repeat, I have a computer on which everything is explained. I'm not going to run there for you, you explain to the secretariat. The cultural writer was found! Prove it there, not me! Come on, look at me on the computer. Yes, sorry for the emotion, we're going to continue to consider the issues of re-reading. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on Mortgage Development]] [[re-read]] Registration number 7482. Reported by Deputy Finance Minister Lisovenko Vitaly Vasilovich. Prepare the Holy One. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, the development of mortgage lending depends primarily on adequate and comprehensive legislation in any country, which should be based on a very simple principle: it is a reliable protection for all mortgage participants, both the lender and the borrower. At the moment, we have mortgage lending, but it's developing, unfortunately, not at the same pace and not with the dynamics that we would like to have. Although we have recently seen progress in adopting appropriate legislative and regulatory rules on mortgages, there are still many questions about the harmonization of many such instruments among ourselves, so that, honourable national deputies, to your discretion and to vote on the first reading, a bill is proposed that amends the 23 laws of Ukraine to comply.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, it's just you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, you probably haven't heard. I said I'd report to Deputy Finance Minister Lisovenko Vitaly Vasilovich. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u14	Thank you. So if you sum up what this bill is about, you have a few goals in this bill. First of all, it's to reconcile the entire terminology apparatus that we have in the legislative field to the only denominators so that at least the terminology is the only one in the mortgage legislation. And secondly, it's to ensure reliable protection for all mortgage lenders, both on the lender's side and on the side of those taking mortgage loans. The main problems of mortgage lending, among other things, apart from the legislative arrangement, are the deficit of long-term and low-cost mortgage loans. And this, unfortunately, leads to the fact that interest rates on such loans are extremely high. We believe that by adopting these changes to legislation in Ukraine there will be more opportunities to engage long-term and cheap resources into the market, and thus, the price of the mortgage, the price of housing and the development of the real estate market in general will be further positive. Please support you in your first reading. And in the process, we're going to take into account any comments, any suggestions made by the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u15	Thank you, Vitaly Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee is Sváš Dmitro Volodymyrovic, Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u16	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! For your review of the re-first reading procedure, a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on mortgage relations has been introduced. This bill is introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is included in a package of billings for the implementation of the Quality Housing Territory. I want to remind you that we have reviewed these bills on several occasions in this very room, and it was on June 21st that the bill was discussed at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was then recommended by the Committee to accept as a basis, but unfortunately it was directed at reiterating the first reading. This bill was further elaborated on the rereading of the first reading. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Finance and Banking, participated in the work. I would like to point out immediately that the bill has nothing to do with the mortgage on land and especially agricultural land. It is aimed only at legislative improvements in the area of housing financing. The bill provides for the development of a single approach to the regulation of legal relations related to the enforcement of obligations in the mortgage lending system, housing construction, the identification and establishment of the principles of legal and organizational principles, the involvement of natural and legal persons in the management of housing financing and the specific management of housing. Please note that in the process of processing there was a small technical malfunction, which led to a small technical error, namely, the change to sub-paragraph 2, paragraph 17, of the first section of this bill, relating to the changes to part one of article 2 of the Ukrainian Financial and Credit Mechanisms Act and the management of property in the construction of housing and real estate operations. This issue has already been settled by a corresponding change to article 11 of this Law. I'm asking you to bring this to the transcript. Thank you for your attention. And I would like to support our Committee's proposal to adopt a draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u17	Thank you, sit down, please. Shall we discuss it? Yes, then for the reasons of the vote, please, Mikola Oneschuk and Victor Terrence, and Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u18	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mikola Onischuk, Political Party of Entrepreneurs. Honorary colleagues, a bill that is really important and aimed at settling mortgage - lending relationships, especially construction. And in that sense, he's worthy of support. At the same time, there are two observations that should at least be worked out by the government as the author of the legislative initiative at the time. if he is voted, his preparations for second reading. The point is that the bill foresees that financial resources can be transferred to trust authorities, in fact, to those organizations that will be involved in these construction costs. And so given the experience of trust societies that we've been through in the 1990s, we need to strengthen the protection institutions to manage the financial resources, and then at least there's an early distinction between the financial risk insurance institutions that might arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u19	Yes, please, Victor Terrence. Good luck with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u20	Dear friends! I would like to explain the situation that just came out with Adam Ivanovich. The situation is this: 7 in the morning, I repeat, 7 in the morning, I signed up for the performance. The application was there, but the Secretariat works so that it was not introduced into the computer. I mean, why doesn't the Secretariat introduce our applications for the speech, I don't know, questions to Zajczuk and others. I apologize to Adam Ivanovich. He really didn't have it on his computer. But understand us, our faction wanted to express its position. We signed up, and we weren't given a speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u21	Thank you. I'm sorry. There's probably no big fault in the Secretariat. There's our fault with you that we've moved on. They just didn't come in. So we're all guilty of consumption, unfortunately. We're all responsible for the consumption. Yes, please, Basil Nadrag, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! The fact that the securities and stock market situation should be properly addressed is, of course, unquestionable. But I believe that the second reading requires that mechanisms be put in place, that we think about two things: the first is that we don't have to raise the cost of mortgage credit, because the payment of the public fee will, accordingly, result in the cost of mortgage lending. Accordingly, it would be impossible to establish mechanisms that would not allow some of the treaties to be shaded. Because it is easier not to pay, it is easier not to give money to the State, not to put it into the budget, but simply to go around some mechanism. Therefore, I think that, if these two points are taken into account, in principle, the law is well placed to take a journey into effect and ultimately. In any event, this is the position of the People's Party of Lithuania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u23	Mikhailo Melniczuk, a faction of socialists, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u24	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine stands in those positions, we have already voted, we have not voted, we have already considered the issue. The bill that was tabled today for Parliament's consideration won only 35 votes in the last vote. There are no significant changes and additions to rereading. Therefore, the faction will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u25	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, registration number 7482. [[on Mortgage Development]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:31:31]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Since we have already directed it back to the first, it has been rejected. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Production and Implementation of Sugar is under consideration, registration number 7568. [[on the internal quota system]] [[re-read]] Reports the secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Oleg Ivanovich Yukhnowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Since the draft law has already been considered twice in the Supreme Council, I will briefly recall the content of the draft and the arguments of the committee of the relevant decision. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Control of Sugar Production and Implementation, registration number 7568, introduced by the Government, proposes to remove the concept of quotas B and C from the mechanism of internal regulation of the sugar market as one that restricts the external economic activity of economic operators and contravenes the principles of WTO. In addition, the proposed bill repeals article 3(11) on mandatory export of sugar produced from imported raw materials as being contrary to the rules of the WTO and prompts numerous comments by the WTO member states in the negotiation process. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee of the Supreme Council considered Project 7568 and suggested that it be rejected, or left its previous decision unchanged. What are the arguments of the committee? First, the production quota does not conflict with the WTO requirements, the government's treatment of quotas B and C as restrictive on exports is just allogeneic. Secondly, the deletion of article 3, paragraph 11, of the basic law is contrary to the interests of national producers, since it guarantees that the internal market is only filled by sugar produced from sugar beet for state support in accordance with the applicable basic law. It was this part of the government project that attracted the most attention from agricultural producers, sugars, and national deputies — members of the committee. Having carefully read article 3, paragraph 11, I will quote with your permission, “the production of sugar in Ukraine from imported raw materials is only allowed under the conditions of further exportation of finished products in full beyond Ukraine’s borders in terms foreseen by Ukraine’s legislation”. You don't need to be a lawyer to conclude that the current legislation of recent government decisions on importing sugar from sugarcane into Ukraine and implementing it into the internal market. This is another confirmation of the need to keep article 3, paragraph 11, in force to prevent further manipulations in the sugar market. Once again, the committee is proposing bill 7568 to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. True, our colleagues here have come up with an interesting situation. But I think we're probably going to be looking. The thing is, these are government bills. There's no government. But the government did not call them back. I think let's maybe we'll look at and determine, though they were in us. Give it a minute, if you don't mind, those who signed up. Please, Hinzburg, follow her, dear. Please. In a minute, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u28	Dear National Deputies! Hinsburg 161 constituency. We all know the problem with the sugar we have. This problem has burdened our voters today — the price of sugar. But I wanted to say from this rostrum, considering this law. If it's so obvious to say that you're the head of the country, the president of the country, and you're running the country. And you're being told by some SOT organization: that's how much sugar you have to make in Ukraine, that's all. And you're sitting there thinking, no, and what am I supposed to do to produce that much, when my country can produce 5.6 million tons of sugar in bags to provide cheap sugar and to give jobs? No, we are being imposed today, and you and I accept it. You and I aren't the masters then. So I suggest that the people's deputies approach this problem from the position that we are the master of our country. And so that the price of sugar isn't as expensive as it is now, and that we have jobs, and that our colporteurs grow sugar, and that our sugar plants work, we have to go to this position to get all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u29	Thank you, Olga Petrovna. Please, Basil Nadrag. Next Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u30	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the People's Party faction cannot support this bill. Because the essence of it is that if we accept it, then all those who produce and process the sugar beet and then process it as a domestic commodity, today we will find ourselves unneeded. I can only give you a few digits. Look, once all of this happens, this bill, we will be able to deliver only 75 per cent of our own production sugar from our own domestic needs. That is, we are from a country that has exported sugar, a country that will import sugar for its own consumption. And that's terrible, because there are other numbers here that are even more frightening -- the question of what to do with the 100 sugar plants that exist and, accordingly, will cease to exist. Accordingly, what to do with half a million jobs that the sugar industry will provide. On that basis, I repeat, the People's Party and its faction do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u31	Mikhailo Melniczuk, followed by Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u32	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, respected villagers. The government, which has already resigned, has again tabled a bill to Parliament that will not be supported by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We insist on the creation of an investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the import of sugar-sparing sugar into Ukraine. She has to figure out who's behind the sugar-scart truck, who these people are, let Ukraine know. Who is destroying the sugar sector of Ukraine, who are these people, and let them know their names. Who's to blame for the loss of peasant labor by transporting sugar-sores. And in the end, the people of Ukraine should know who washed $38 million through sugar-sparing without permission from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u33	Solomon conveys his word to Peter, please, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u34	Victor Petrov, Communist faction, Vinni district. This bill was rejected by the Supreme Council in July. But the Government, which has already resigned today, continues to insist on policy not for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. The adoption of this law will now create another 600,000 unemployed – a sugar industry that will be completely eliminated in Ukraine. I think it's not enough that we have to reject this bill again. The Office of the Prosecutor-General should also consider the commission of inquiry set up in the Supreme Council to determine who is drawing these bills, who is of interest, because these laws are clearly not in the interests of the people of Ukraine. That is why we must finally reject this law today. When the law was voted in July, there was a multi-thousand-mass demonstration of sugar workers, today taking advantage of the fact that today the sugarmakers who produce sugar, they start the season, have already begun to work. Therefore, today all these people are waiting for the Supreme Council to protect them, to protect the sugar industry in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I remind you that we have conducted quite serious parliamentary hearings with you on sugar issues and our sugar industry in Ukraine, and we have adopted quite serious recommendations in the form of a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, really, most importantly, right now it's completely out of time for this bill, because we've already started an active season of sugar-making in the state and right, those of you who have spoken, ashamedly once, we've fed sugar to the world, and now we're going to be our own, cutting factories like they did, and let others bring in and someone takes advantage of it. But the law is and must be determined by a vote. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar on the system of internal quotas. Registration number 7568. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:41:44]] For the The board is red, and so is the sugar beet. “For” is only 3 votes. Clearly, the bill. The factions? Well, please, by the factions. “Ukraine” means one vote. Come on, please. And two voices from Democratic Ukraine. Bill rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on Sanitary Epidemic Food Standards]] [[re-read]] Registration number 7595-D. Reports Loboda Mikhailovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Maternal Health and Childhood. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u36	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In a revised draft of the bill on quality, food and food safety, the Committee proposes to reject sub-paragraph 4, paragraph 2, and paragraphs 5 and 6, of the previous edition, which proposed to reverse the certification of agricultural products and sanitary and epidemiological surveillance of food production and circulation, including with a view to protecting populations from infectious diseases. In view of the above, we ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support a draft law that does not require additional budgetary costs. So this is about sanitation and hygiene control from the food supply station and certification that comes with food products.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u37	Yes, thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Yeah, those who signed up. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u38	Mikhailo Melniczuk faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec Region, the Ukrainian Association of Land and Estate Owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. But I'd like to say this for a few seconds. Whether we actually have an epidemiological service in Ukraine, I have a lot of questions. We have cases, hundreds of thousands of cases of poisoning of our citizens from the canoes that come from Poland, from Hungary, from wherever you want, from Turkey, and so on, that happens more in April, May, June. And then, in general, if there's any of that sanitation in our markets. You go, please, and look who's going through there, collect the refund, put it in your pocket, and leave. So this issue should be addressed in a broader way. But the bill has to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u39	Let's do it. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of a law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on sanitary and epidemic food standards, registration number 7595-D. Please vote. Let's vote more friendlyly. [[16:45:39]] For-137 The decision is not supported, since this is the first time. Overruled. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 55, “Regions of Ukraine” – 1, National Party – 16, Block Timoshenko – 12, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Socialists – 24, Social Democrats – 0, “One Ukraine” – 2, “Democratic Ukraine” – 10, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 11, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 6. A draft Law on the Definition of Property Rights Subjects is under consideration in Ukraine of the property of the state-owned civil associations of the former Soviet Union, registration number 1093 - d. Reported to the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. [[organizations]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable Ukrainian People's Deputies! In accordance with a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 January 2003 on the re-reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Definition of Persons with Property Rights to the property of the Union-wide associations and organizations of the former Union of the Soviet Union, the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investment prepared and submitted a bill to the Supreme Council for its consideration. The draft law lays down the legal basis for determining the subjects of ownership of the property of former Union-wide associations and organizations of the former Soviet Union located in Ukraine. It is intended to remove from the scope of the law the property of former republican and regional social associations and organizations, their bodies, which had legal status in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, separate property and as of 24 August 1991, i.e. the declaration of independence of Ukraine, were not part of the Union-wide social associations or had the republican central and governing bodies in the Ukrainian Soviet Union. In accordance with article 4 of the bill, the identification of the subjects of the right of ownership of the property of allied public associations and of the organizations of the former Soviet Union shall be carried out by the judicial authorities. The amended draft law took into account the comments and suggestions made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which were made in their opinion on the bill. New comments and proposals have been made in this office's conclusion to the amended bill, which we believe can be taken into account in preparing it for second reading. A summary of the expert management's conclusion, as a result of the first reading review, the draft law could be adopted as a basis for subsequent adoption, taking into account comments and proposals made. I would also like to inform you that the Committee has reached the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers, which states that the Cabinet generally supports the bill, but requests that its proposals and observations be taken into account. We believe that this request can be accepted. However, our attention is drawn to the fact that the amended draft law was registered on 8 April this year, and we received the opinion of Kabmin on 22 July. It is therefore proposed that their proposals be considered in the preparation of the second-reading bill and that representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers be invited to participate directly in the work, a new Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet decided at its meeting on 2 March to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption, as a basis, of a revised draft law on the definition of the subject of property rights in the territory of the former Soviet Union social organizations. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u41	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who signed up? Melniczuk, Cloud, Nadara. Then, please, in a minute. Solomonine, okay. Oh, dear, please. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u42	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues! The authors of the bill were absolutely right to ask about the property of former federal public organizations that owned and managed property in Ukraine. Why? Because to date, I think I need to get a little bit wider on this topic. We have everything that's ever been allied to some extent. How legitimate is one question. But in my view, it is necessary to look not only at the rule of law, but also at some of the options of justice, because what is privatized to quiet, distributed and so on, and so on, is now privately owned, must be more rigorously monitored. Therefore, I think that for the second reading, special provision should be made in this bill for the responsibility of those who, through all kinds of schemes, have allowed the embezzlement of public property. In general, I think it is quite enough that this bill should be supported on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u43	That's right, Vasil Ivanovich, but we can write it down in our determination, and we can't get the law to hold it accountable. Please, Yuri Solomatin. Behind him is Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u44	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The issue in this bill has been raised correctly, and I am right in view of the fact that everything that could be stolen and belonged to the entire Soviet people, including the Ukrainian people, has been stolen. Indeed, the question must be raised not only about the review of the results of the privatization of Krivoroztali, the Nicopol Ferrous Plant, but also about the fact that democracy had been stolen by the national conscience since the year 91. Give it back, you bastards, what you stole! I believe that this issue will be resolved after the resignation of the Government of Timoshenko and the resignation of the President of Orange Yushchenko himself, who has usurped power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u45	Yes, Stepan the Cloud, followed by Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u46	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, such an important bill is not to be discussed in one minute, but much more so because it is property that is more than 20 billion, which is stolen, owned, illegally used. This is the first time. Pro-second. This law would not order the use of this property and the use of this property by the people, but would only confuse these things. There is a general inadmissibility that courts are supposed to determine the owner of a lawsuit, or government, or those who use it. Excuse me! On February 4th, 94th, the Supreme Council passed a decree recognizing this property as a national property. And the very name of the law is not appropriate. The law should be called the use of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u47	That's absolutely right. Let me finish. Let me finish. Talk to me, Stepan Ilkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u48	I want to say that the law is necessary, but it's the law that governs the use of this property. But there can be no question that this property is public, do you understand? And let's put it in order. But that's not the law. And that's why I'm asking you to change the whole ideology of this law. In the first reading, it cannot be accepted in this state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u49	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u50	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree in part with the arguments of the previous speaker, because the situation as of February 4, 1994 in Ukraine was this property -- please think about it for $3.8 billion. Now it's estimated that there's about 1 billion dollars left. Where's the rest of the 20 billion dollars? Where are they? So I think the title of the law is going to have to be changed. It was said that all property belonged to the State, meaning all Ukrainian citizens. They put money into this property, they have to inherit it all. But you can't pass the law, you have to adopt, you have to change the name, you have to change the ideology, but you have to adopt it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u51	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk. He's been followed by Cherniak Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u52	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Regardless of what the bill has, we'll talk, misunderstandings, and we'll see that it's not perfect, but the faction of the Socialist Party will support it in the first reading. And we need to work on it in the second reading. Everything equally can't foresee an inventory there, but some more, we'll say, measure, but the faction of the Socialist Party suggests that after the adoption of the second reading and signature by the President, we do inventory these objects, determine their legal status, and certainly find out whether or not they've already sold more than half of them Bakai in their time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u53	Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u54	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u55	Switch the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has long been “knocking” at the door of the Supreme Council. I'd say it's been 14 years since he was supposed to be here. Since the absence of the Soviet Union, there has remained property in the territory of Ukraine for all - State social groups, organizations, and its fate has evolved in such a way that whoever was closer to it, who could steal it, stole it. It was stolen by officials, entrepreneurs, and anyone. And so far the Supreme Council cannot accept this law. So we really need to approve of it, but there are serious flaws. Indeed, it is necessary to determine clearly, to invent these objects, and it is necessary not to allow the courts to decide fate. Why does the court decide? This property is already known to be owned by public organizations. So this new one needs to be written very clearly. And we have to decide what the mechanism is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, we will vote. Please, Matthew, microphone, Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u58	Dear People's Deputies, well, above all, I would like to draw attention to two points. The first point is that we define the subject of ownership by law. Without the adoption of this law, we cannot even determine who is the owner of this property, which has remained unconcerned, which has been rightly said. Indeed, this law had long had to be passed. Last time, this law was not passed solely because of the lack of two votes. That's the first one. Second. It was said that this property was being destroyed. Vladimir Kirilovich, they weren't upsetting, they were upsetting. In July, the new owners of the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, the state-owned stock package of the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, sold a non-founding house called the Sudostructor in Mishora, Yalta for two and a half million grevens, where only two and a half hectares of land are left alone. It's for no price to anyone without having the right to do so without the consent of either the trade union committee or the collective, nothing. And it goes on and on and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, I think everyone here has rightly said that we need such a law. Perhaps those who make comments to him are right, but let us act wisely, accept him in the first reading, and actively work with him when we finally adopt the Law, so that he may be as we would like to see him in order to preserve the common, national good. So I ask: Let us support him in the first reading, Adam Ivanovich to his second, and the name can be changed, and the corresponding articles can be changed. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Recognition of Property Rights in Ukraine’s Commonwealth, Public Unions, Organizations of the former Soviet Union. Registration number 1093-d. Please vote in the first reading. [[17:00:30]] For-198 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 54, “Regions of Ukraine” – 4, National Party – 30, Block Timoshenko – 32, Socialist Party – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, Social Democrats – 0, “Only Ukraine” – 11, “Democratic Ukraine” – 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 12, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 10. Dear colleagues, well, you all say you need such a law. We don't finally accept it, we accept it on the first reading. Stepan. ‘, you support. Let's support the first reading. Then we'll change the name and everything, but we don't have to steal what's left. Who's to go back to voting on this law, please vote. [[17:01:40]] For 216 No, then let's do it this way, it's been on again, it's us again first. Again? Well, who's in charge of re-reading the first reading, asking for a vote. Vote. [[17:02:13]] For 231 Copy that. So I'd like to ask quickly, really, those who are interested in this project, let's redefine it and take a quick look. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 6418 is under consideration. [[on responsibility for violations of electoral law]] [[re-read]] As reported by National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. To prepare Mary Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u60	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! It is proposed, taking into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council after the law has been sent for finalization, that amendments be made to the Code of Administrative Offences for the Supplementation of Chapter 15 – “Administrative Offences affecting the exercise of national will and the establishment of an order for its security”. These changes are made in order to protect the electoral rights of citizens, to increase the responsibility for their violations and to prevent the repetition of negative examples of these violations that took place during the first and second rounds of the presidential elections in October and November 2004. Proposed to exclude from the Ukraine Code of Administrative Offences of Articles 186-2 and 186-4 and to supplement it with chapter 15 of the draft, which will be called “Administrative Offences affecting the exercise of national will and the provision of security, which will include 16 articles that will address the issue of responsibility for violating voter information or lists of voters and the use of such lists, violation of citizens' rights to familiarize themselves with the list of voters, violation of pre-election advertising procedures with the use of mass media, violation of restrictions on the conduct of electoral agitation, failure to simplify non-proprietary information, distribution of documents, enforcement of documents, violation of rights to pre-election by means of mass media, violation of restrictions on the conduct of electoral campaigns, enforcement or the production of non-proprieveal documents, violation of the law enforcement of legal rights, violation of the law, violation of the law enforcement of the law and regulation of laws and regulations These are the proposals that come from those that were calculated, which were complained of by the participants in the pre-election process. Both the winners and the losers. But there will be no losing side of the parliamentary election, and there will be no losing side of the other side. It can only be lost to all the people of Ukraine. So, dear friends, I would like to ask you to consider these suggestions carefully. They fit the legal technique completely, they match the situations that were, each of them, and they prevent it. Thus, the adoption of this law will make it impossible to create obstacles to the exercise of the electoral right of a citizen. Its implementation does not require additional spending from the State Budget, it will contribute to reducing spending, especially by avoiding re-elections and recalculations. It will change the situation in which dirty money will flow into electoral campaigns. In addition, we propose, and the drafters of the bill are, in addition to your humble servant Yuri Karmazin, the national deputy of Bandurka, National MP Marcus. Thus, the law also provides for amendments to the Criminal Code on criminal liability for violations of election laws. What is proposed? It is proposed to do so as is already the case in countries such as France, Belgium, Spain, Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, Holland, Turkey, San Marino, Poland, in other countries. A new type of criminal punishment is proposed, and this type of criminal punishment is a denial of the right to choose. Ladies and gentlemen. That's what it's called-- the deprivation of voting rights. We propose that the Criminal Code be supplemented by such an article on “Deprival of electoral rights” and foresaw. I'm going to talk about the Constitution. If I were to speak in the sense that now my colleague here is yelling out of place, although I would have put it this way, you wouldn't have to, then there wouldn't be a right to be deprived of the will, to be held in a disciplinary battalion, to be confined to the will, to be arrested. Because there is a constitutional right to freedom, article 29. Nowhere in the Constitution does it say that it can be restricted by a court’s decision on the basis of law. So, dear friends, I've brought you civilised countries, where there's a voter's deprivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u61	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Maria Marcus from the committee. Maria Andriyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u62	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, discussed the bill to amend the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. The bill, designed to improve the legal protection of the electoral rights of citizens, proposes to amend articles 157, 158, 159 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and to supplement the Code with new articles. Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine are based on novelties of the Criminal Code, as well as to supplement the Code of Administrative Offences with chapter 15a “Administrative Offences affecting the exercise of national will and the establishment of an order of security”. Dear colleagues, you have repeatedly created temporary commission investigators for the violation of election rights. These bills will allow for the elimination of gaps in the law and the protection of the rights of citizens, both to choose and to be chosen. The committee supported the bill and considered it possible to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for its consideration in the first reading. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is of the same opinion. It noted a rather high level of drafting of the bill and suggested that the bill be adopted in the first reading. Please, Your Honor, vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u63	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Do those who sign up for the performance insist? Yes, please, after a minute, if you don't mind. John the Rabbit's microphone. Get ready right away. There's Ivan Alexanderovich. It's just being measured to a different place.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u64	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! I want you to know that whoever doesn't vote in favour of this bill will knowingly or willfully act for great miracles to always be created in the elections. The thing is, most of us have criminal responsibility today, and administrative responsibility is for campaigning on election day and issuing a ballot in improper hands. And when it comes to procedure, the mechanism of accountability, there's a militiaman or a wife, and so on. So what are we talking about? The point is that minor violations, which always form the basis for criminal misconduct, should be normalized, and that there should be sanctions for liability. So I think it will reflect the desire of many to break the law. If you first apply administrative remedies to him, then criminal remedies will be available. That's why I'm asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u65	That's right. Vasil Ivanovich Nadraga microphone. Behind him is Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u66	Vassili Nadraga, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues! It is absolutely right that there should be order in the country. And it is absolutely right that we should make our legislation as perfect as possible. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in all our discussions on improving our legislation, we have, after the elections, 18,000 people fired from our jobs on official statements. And the question is, by removing them from office, and by firing them, maybe we are, and we have paved the way for today's crisis, which is a face-to-face in the public administration system. Therefore, I think that, when it comes to making arrangements in elections, we need to understand, perhaps, one more thing, that when we decide to improve legislation, we should also think about how to use those laws, what it goes on and why it is done. And so, we're creating an instrument that, once again, we're going to allow, excuse me, to treat others because someone didn't vote like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u67	It's important that there be order after the election. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u68	Mikhailo Melniczuk, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. I am very grateful to my colleagues, Karmazin, the Hare, who warn that there can really be processes that are out of control in the elections. Judging from the fact that in the Novoseltsky region, the head of the Revega administration has hurriedly appointed the head of the administration of education for the Ballan Valencian regime, which has great experience in falsifying elections. So we understand that in some regions they're preparing to falsify elections and apply administrative resources. So we still have a lot of time left, and we did everything we could to keep this from happening in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u69	Please, Mikola Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u70	Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine Dear friends, the Honourable Chairman, the faction supports this bill in voting on the basis that the drafter of the bill will now withdraw his proposal for a bill in the part where it concerns the introduction of a criminal responsibility such as the removal of election rights. Dear friends! Even those who are condemned to be deprived of their liberty and who are in places of deprivation do not lose the right to choose or to be elected. So in support of not the author that he actually did a useful job, particularly by introducing a whole range of administrative ones, i.e. administrative responsibility for a number of violations that were not previously protected by law, I would like him to conclude the discussion now on the condition that he removes the proposal on criminal liability, we vote in favour of the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u71	And that's the right thing to do. Before voting, there is a decree of inadmissibility. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. Nigger, microphone, please excuse Vasil Vasil Vasilovich, then you're arguing about the inadmissibility clause.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in my opinion, this law is necessary, indeed, to be punished for violating electoral law. Up until now, we've only been punished by two violations. It's like the issue of the ballot papers in the wrong hands and the agitation on election day. Now it's expanding significantly right now around those violations that need to be punished, so I think we need to support this, except criminal punishment, administrative punishment. But I have doubts about the punishments that are recorded here. It seems to me that these penalties will not be effective, and I think that in preparing for second reading, we need to make it more clear what the punishment will be, what their mechanism and effectiveness will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u73	Thank you, Basil Vasilovich Onopenko, for the inadmissibility decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u74	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you. Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I would like to draw your attention to one feature of this bill. I have great respect for my colleagues, but there are things you can't miss in this room without even looking at the positive conclusions of the Science and Export Authority. In particular, it is proposed that the Criminal Code be supplemented by another form of punishment — the deprivation of election rights. Today, article 51 foresees 12 species, different species, from a fine to permanent deprivation of rights. What does it mean to be deprived of the right to vote? This means a grave violation of the Constitution itself. Article 70 states: “Right to vote in elections and referendums are citizens who have reached the age of 18. They do not have the right to vote by citizens who have been declared ineffective by the court.” The only category of citizens who don't have the right to vote are incapacitated. I mean, they're citizens who can't understand and manage the meaning of their actions. But that's not enough. In order to declare ineffective, there must be a court decision at the hands of the prosecutor, according to psychiatric expertise, and the court's decision should take effect. If we accept this additional form of punishment as basic, you realize that it will be what it once was in Stalin’s time “the exercise of rights. ” We can't do that. And it's going to be anti-constitutional. So I think that we talked to Maria Andriyevna Marcus, with Yuri Carmazin, and we came to the conclusion that, in general, a bill is really necessary to improve legislation. Therefore, I do not question the inadmissibility of the entire law, but it needs to be improved, and it can be directed to the first reading, but except for this article in the Criminal Code. To read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u75	Thank you. Or perhaps we should do more wisely. Vasil Vasilovich, if you don't mind, we'll take him out on the first reading immediately, removing what you say. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u76	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u77	I mean, honourable colleagues, we're removing, in fact, the anti-constitutional rule of disqualification and voting on it in the first reading. Carmazine, please, microphone. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u78	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I do not agree that this anti-constitutional norm will otherwise offend all countries. But for compromise and for us to move on, I'm taking off article 54 prime. Disenfranchisement. But all the other bill that's been worked out. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'm filming article 54 prime. Now. Please do not vote for it, the changes to this article, and the whole other bill needs to be adopted now and soon, because we are going to the elections. And just the changes to that, they're going to prevent the falsification of elections by any force or by Carmazin's block, or by Martinyuk's block, any block, any political party wins from being protected by administrative legislation, criminal legislation. Here, it is also a violation of the funding order of the electoral company and other problems that need to be in the law right now. Thank you. Please support this position by removing 54 primes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u79	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. We'll make two of you. So, with the proposal that we remove what concerns the deprivation of voting rights, we vote in favour of the draft in the first reading by removing the rules on the deprivation of voting rights. Vote. [[17:20:50]] For 271 In the first reading, the law was passed with the deletion of articles on the deprivation of voting rights. We work for, we prepare for second reading. The draft Act on Supplement to Article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Assignment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to Other States is under consideration, registration number 3416-d. [[about the callback]] [[re-read]] The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This project is aimed at bringing two legislative acts into line, both basic and other, and thus eliminating discrimination in relation to the Supreme Council. The Basic Act on Ukraine’s participation in international peacekeeping operations provides that the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which have been sent to other States, may be revoked under certain conditions and that decisions will be taken in accordance with Ukraine’s international obligations, Ukraine’s President of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, agreed with the Ministry of Defence, or at the suggestion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is no such provision in the Act on the order of deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states on the possibility of recalling the Ukrainian Armed Forces at the suggestion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So these two laws need to be brought into line. The lives and facts of recent times show that the Supreme Council cannot be removed from these issues. It doesn't make any sense. The Supreme Council, after all, is the last institution to agree to the direction. And the Supreme Council cannot be deprived of the right to approve the decision to withdraw. I repeat, the events of the last time that we have been very alert and that we may be talking about tomorrow when we discuss the government's report on the peaceful activities of our nation, they dictate the necessity of adopting such a law. We propose, our committee, a committee in foreign affairs, the legal committee proposes to adopt this law. We offered to accept it immediately and in our second reading. But the facts of the last time that, let's say, we've twice taken decisions by the Supreme Council to recall the Ukrainian Armed Forces from Iraq, and they've been ignored, this suggests that we should probably consider further guarantees of the fulfilment of the will of the Supreme Council, which should be enshrined in this law. So we suggest that we accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u81	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich, sit down, please. Those who sign up, raise your hands, who sign up and want to speak up? Please, Yuri Karmazin's microphone, followed by Bunny Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u82	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! You may remember how I asked you not to send an army to Iraq, as I convinced you that it was a violation of international law, that it was an occupation, and that we would become invaders. It took time for the United Nations to determine what it was, indeed, an occupation. But the civilized member countries of the United Nations have unfortunately not reached their conclusions. I believe that this law must now be adopted immediately in the first reading and in general, because there is nothing here but the right to address the Supreme Council to the President with a proposal to recall the troops of the Armed Forces from other states. In large numbers, we had to make changes to article 85, paragraph 23, of the Constitution, and write about the direction of divisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u83	Please, John the Rabbit, microphone. It's Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u84	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! I personally do not believe that this bill is in line with the provisions of the basic Act on Ukraine's participation in peacekeeping operations. That's the first one. It's different. I think we have in the Constitution and in our practical life the principle of power. And the Supreme Council, before it sends out, has to write down in its document all the absolute conditions under which Ukraine participates in one or the other peacekeeping operations. We are proposing in essence today that this law create a mechanism of additional political pressure on the President. We're here to address you, Mr. President, and you're going to decide whether or not to take it. Dear friends! This is not the case in other nations, for it distorts power, distorts that political will, and shakes the state. So I think let's live by the Constitution instead of just dragging the consumer into the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u85	Yes, please, Basil Nadrag, Solomonine Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u86	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to appeal to the previous speaker. He is absolutely right to live, so to speak, in accordance with existing legislation. But the question is quite interesting. So when it comes to sending, the responsibility must be shared by the Supreme Council with the executive branch to ensure that the troops go to a foreign country. When it comes to taking, the Supreme Council, it's kind of like, in that process, it's not necessary. Therefore, the author here, who said that if the Supreme Council was involved in the decision-making process to send troops abroad, it should therefore be involved and should also have a mechanism for withdrawing. If we disagree, then let's take a picture of the rule that the Supreme Council authorizes. Let the executive do all this, and let her take this responsibility. The only thing I wish to say is that I agree with the need for a second reading to establish a mechanism so that the decisions of the Supreme Council are not so desirable, but as mandatory. And that will be objectivity in the matter of responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u87	Solomatin Yuri. Behind him is Mikola Melniczuk, Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u88	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have recently witnessed that our soldiers, in the form of peacekeepers in Iraq, in Lebanon, do not always take such positions as we can be proud of. In general, it is time to recall the declaration on Ukraine's State sovereignty, which was adopted back in the 1990s on Ukraine's non-block status, and to stop this practice of sending our mercenaries to hot spots. Let the Americans, the Germans and other Europeans spoil what they have brewed all over the world and are responsible for it! It's the same thing. And the second. It could be fully agreed that the responsibility of the Supreme Council should be adequate. We agree, and should adequately tell the President that it is necessary to withdraw and that the President has no right not to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u89	Mikhailo Melniczuk. He's been followed by Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u90	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support this bill, and we agree with the conclusions and arguments expressed here by colleagues. And yet we're not just going to support, we're going to insist. We've talked about this more than once, socialists, and we've made statements that we need to get our contingent out of Iraq immediately. And we don't have to speculate on this, we don't have to go to elections or anything else, because then we're going to go through maybe something else that might happen in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u91	Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u92	Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. The questions are usually plentiful. In my view, the problem is not only to create a political pressure mechanism against the President to resolve the issue of the withdrawal of troops, but to create a mechanism to comply with the conditions on which troops are introduced. I mean, you need specific criteria for what the purpose of the military is, on what conditions, and it's written in the basic law. But maybe you'd have to introduce another novelty to break these conditions if we were to allow troops to enter on one condition, and it turns out that the conditions are different, so that the mechanism for the withdrawal of these forces works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u93	Thank you. He's very persistently asking for the word of Army General Kuzmuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u94	Thank you. I fully support the statement of the Black MP. He was right to say that there are conditions under which decisions are made and that may be created in the area of action by our peacemakers. And on our committee there were serious discussions on this issue. And the purpose of this bill is to resolve the discomfort and contradictions that exist in existing legislation. Yes, the Supreme Council, and it alone, agrees to deploy our troops, but it still has no rights. That's why even today there's the possibility of a dot: the Supreme Council agrees – the Supreme Council has the right and to recall our troops if such an environment arises. So I ask my colleagues to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think everyone has rightly talked about the problem that exists. We'll talk more about it tomorrow because we'll listen to the information. Regrettably, according to recent reports about our peacekeepers, there are many and many problems, and it is a pity that we have always responded to the legitimate requests of the United Nations and sent our peacekeepers. Let's really settle this question, let's take it on the first reading, ask the profiling committee to prepare for the second as we discussed. I bet: on the adoption as a basis of the Act on Supplementing the Article of the Eighth Law of Ukraine, “On the Order of Assignment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to Other States”. [[about the callback]] Registration number 3416-d. Please vote. [[17:33:55]] For 255 The Law was adopted in the first reading. Thank you. So let's move on to a simplified procedure, because Ukraine has us, dear colleagues, very many issues, and we are working very hard, and I'm going to continue this session for 15 minutes. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of National Producers from Dumping Imports is under consideration. [[on Procedural Issues of Anti-Dumping Investigation]] Registration number 7117. Yes. I can't see Osika. Please, from the profile committee, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the management of the national economy, property and investment – Maceinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u96	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Domestic Workers from Dumping Imports, on certain procedural issues of anti-dumping investigations. The purpose of the bill is to increase the level of responsibility of Ukrainian anti-dumping legislation to GAT, WTO and international trade law. Our colleague introduced this bill, which is called upon to improve domestic anti-dumping legislation in procedural matters, to violate and investigate, to apply anti-dumping measures on the results of such investigations. The bill has a number of observations and a number of comments from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Ministry of Economics. However, given the relevance of the bill, our Economic Policy Committee supports this legislative initiative and proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading. Then Ukraine will continue to be a real opportunity to take all the comments carefully into account, analyze, prepare this bill for the second reading. Please support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u97	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, those who sign up for it. And here 2 is the pro, 2 is the against. Please, are we going to discuss those who have signed up or are we going to vote? We'll vote then. There's no Dashutin written down. No, no, no. Yes, then I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of National Producers from Dumping Imports, registration number 7117. [[on Procedural Issues of Anti-Dumping Investigation]] Please be supportive. [[17:37:08]] For 240 The Law was adopted in the first reading. There's a draft Law on Amendments before. Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u98	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Adam Ivanovich, I want the protocol to be written “with motive”. Part four of article 27 proposes to grant the right to exempt foreign producers from paying taxes. The science-experts department said that we need to find out, specify, which taxes are exactly what we're talking about. I don't think the regime in foreign producers can be better than ours. So let's rule out this situation on second reading, and then we can adopt the law. As long as we can crawl in front of foreigners, why this must all be a foreigner. Any other conditions than what we have? Why are we writing this down? Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to pay attention, and, accordingly, to the preliminary committee on this, article 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u99	Thank you. I say shame with you, and we ask that the second reading do not come to this. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Application of Special Measures for Imports into Ukraine, registration number 7127. [[on procedural issues of special investigation and special measures]] [[new editor]] Yes, from the profile committee, please, makinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the application of special measures for imports into Ukraine. The import into Ukraine of procedural issues, special investigation and special measures. This bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act of 22 December 1998 under the number 332/14 “On the application of special measures” in order to increase the level of compliance with international standards. [[concerning import into Ukraine]] After the adoption of the so - called anti - dumping code, Ukraine’s position on the international trade arena had certainly increased significantly. This is not only about combating dumping but also about taking special measures to protect the internal market from out-of-quota imports. This bill has also been commented on by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, and the Ministry of Economics. But the committee also takes into account the relevance of this bill. And the committee supports this legislative initiative, and proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading. The committee will then carefully examine all comments, analyzed and prepared for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u101	Thank you. Shall we vote? Then I put to the vote the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Application of Special Measures, registration number 7127. [[concerning import into Ukraine]] Please vote. [[17:40:47]] For 265 Thank you. 265. The law passed in the first reading. There's a draft Act amending the article of the first Ukrainian Act on Black Metal Waste and Garbage. Registration number 7563. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Economics, Andrej Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, your attention is given to the draft Law on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs to Waste and Black Metals, which is being prepared to accelerate Ukraine's integration into the EU, to join the World Trade Organization, and to strengthen the country's export potential and to implement it. The bill envisions a gradual reduction in export duty rates for waste and scrap of black metals from 30 euros to 18 euros per tonne. In particular, the establishment in 2006 of 25 euros and in 2007 of 18 euros per tonne. One of the main tasks of this bill is, on the one hand, the implementation of the strategic objective of the government's activities – Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization and, on the other hand, the provision of the needs of domestic metallurgical enterprises in raw materials. In this context, it should be noted that in 2004, compared to 2003, there was an increase in the supply volume of scrap metal by metallurgy enterprises in metallurgical combinations, which enabled the production needs of the latter to be provided in full. In 2004, a 15.6 percent increase in scrap metal was made in 2004 and steel smelters in 2004 increased by virtually 5% to 38 million tons. The general need for metal - mining combinations in scrap metal produced by domestic enterprises for 2004 amounted to 6 million, 564 thousand tons. The scrap metal exports in 2004 increased by 1.4 times from a million 807 thousand tons to 2 million 450,000 tons compared to 2003. In the first half of 2005, metal scrap metal exports amounted to 768 thousand tons and decreased by 28.4 percent compared to the corresponding period in 2004. There is still a current 30-euro rate of duty per tonne increase in the economic attractiveness of the resident-country export operations with which Ukraine has entered into the Free Trade Agreement. In the Republic of Moldova, 665,000 tons of scrap metal were exported, 14.5 more than the corresponding period. The adoption of this law allows us to increase the volume of supply of metallurgical products to the European Union. There's a deal that's already been made this year that makes it possible to put up 900,000 tons and then one million in the next year and one million in the next year when it's down on the right schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u103	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich. It's an abbreviated Anatoly, Yuri Anatolyevich, abbreviated. Please, from the Committee on the Finances of Banking, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u104	Dear Chief! Dear fellow national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Garbage of Black Metals. The purpose of the bill is to ensure Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization and to increase the state's position in negotiations with the European Union on free access to the European market for Ukrainian metal products, by reducing export duty rates on waste and scrap of black metals. According to the government, the gradual reduction of the expert duty on scrap metal will improve the conditions for access to the market of Ukrainian metal products within the framework of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the EU on trade in certain steel products, as well as contribute to Ukraine's market economy status. In discussing the bill at a committee meeting, members of the committee proposed the introduction of the bill, not since 1 January 2006, but since the introduction of Ukraine into the World Trade Organization. This proposal was supported by the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Economics, Sergio Teryochin. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the bill can be based on it. In view of the above, the committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on the basis of an amendment from the committee regarding the deadline for entry into force. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u105	Thank you, sit down, please. Shall we vote? Let's make this happen. Who supports this bill from those who have signed up? Let's define by vote. Three minutes Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, we haven't heard from him in a long time. Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, express yourself clearly and clearly, as always.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u106	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues. And so, we're going to propose to lower the budget now without any calculation of what these revenue will be, as short as possible. I can't see, Adam Ivanovich, here's the budget committee's help. And the loss is going to be huge because you want to reduce from 25 to 18 euros per tonne. That's 7 euros, or 10 dollars. Let's look at this: at one ton, and the other negative effects, it's going to be less for our businesses right now. And then, this motivation will help accelerate the negotiation process with the EU on increasing access to national metallurgical production. Ladies and gentlemen, these are fairy tales! What negotiation process with the EU? Who needs you there? Especially after these corruption scandals, nobody needs them! Then let's write in the Transitional Regulations that the Law enters into force since Ukraine's accession to the EU. It's going to be clear, okay, I'm willing to cut it twice then, but this process is not going to happen soon, and you understand very well that it can't happen soon. So I don't see any justification for the adoption of this bill, except that the science-expert management on the 5th page wrote the non-conformity of this project, wrote this conclusion. According to the results of the first reading of the bill, it is appropriate to send them to further work so that the Cabinet of Ministers can finally determine its proposals in a single bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. In addition, there is a violation of the Ukrainian customs tariff, which we have approved, there is an inadequacy between the commodity descriptions listed in the customs tariff code and in the article of the law on export duties on waste and scrap of black metals. So let's, dear friends, let's see, we don't have to look at the WTO issues, but at what price, the price of this introduction, in any case, the improvement that they've offered now on behalf of the committee that comes into force later, that's after that, and now the budget needs to hear the coming, that's all the reduction in the income part. For the sake of strengthening our positions in the negotiating process. What positions there is nowhere to be gained. So far, it's all gone. And all our trips abroad have changed everything. I'm glad I haven't made a single trip in as many years, and I'm proud of it. Therefore, Your Honor, I will not vote for this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u107	Yes, but that doesn't mean, Yuri Anatolyevich, that you're not leaving, you're just working actively in Parliament. Please, Your Honor, now I'm going to give Matvienkov one minute, which with knowledge of the matter, we will vote and determine the vote. Please, Sergey Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u108	Matvienkov, 55th District. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! With so much difficulty, remember, we introduced this quota here, and with great difficulty we were able to reduce exports from 5 million to 2.5 million. What do we want to accomplish today? Today we are covered by figures that we will improve our relations with the EU. I'm bringing in specific numbers. 54.7 per cent were taken to Turkey, 27 per cent to Moldova, and 12 per cent to Egypt. And here's the EU. Greece - 0.9 per cent, Poland - 1.4 per cent, Slovenia - 0.04 per cent and Austria - 0.05 per cent. What are we talking about? We don't have the law working fully on the ground today. Cash is on the way. The garages are working, and they're taking a crap. The hammers are breaking open. It's full-blown, so to speak. To date, we must not weaken this system, but rather take effective measures to set things right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the Amendment Act to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Export Customs Act on waste and scrap of black metals. Registration number 7563. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:52:38]] For-83 Not accepted. The bill was rejected. The factions. Our Ukraine – 15, Communists, Ukrainian Regions – 0, National Party – 7, Block Timoshenko – 30, Socialists – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 20, Social Democrats – 0, “Only Ukraine”, Democratic Ukraine, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 10, Postfraction – 1. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement, and then we will proceed. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary group “Democratic Ukraine” of 8 September 2005, I inform of the reorganization of the parliamentary group “Democratic Ukraine” in the parliamentary faction of the political party “Forward Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Short for the “Forward of Ukraine” faction. The “Forward Ukraine” faction consists of 19 Ukrainian national deputies. The leader of the parliamentary faction “Go ahead Ukraine!” was elected national deputy Sharov Igor Fedorović, authorized representatives of Sharov, Musiyak and Zoshchenko. That's what I welcome them to. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I'd like your permission to consider a few of the laws we have burning, burning. It's about making changes to some Ukrainian legislation, the registration number is 1846, because we're a little hasty here and we've done miracles. [[on the identification of the court by technical means]] Will there be no objection? Then, please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, and we will be determined. 8046. Did I say that? 8046 Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u110	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! After the adoption and entry into force of September 1st of the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Justice, there is a collapse in the judicial system. The point is that, in implementing the Constitution, we have recorded that a court hearing held in civil proceedings or in other proceedings should be technically fixed. Sadly, though, there is such a situation today that, for example, we do not have enough halls. Each judge needs a separate hall. Taking our Kiev, where more or less courts are provided, for 20 or 25 judges, 4 halls, I'm not talking about the periphery anymore. Today, we need to find about 25 million dollars to buy technology. And there are many problems related to services, diskettes, media, and so forth. So, over the holiday season, I prepared a bill to amend the Criminal Procedure Code, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Civil Procedure Code, the Master Procedure Code. And these suggestions are that this technical record should be conducted at the expense of the party, the party insists that a dark record be kept in court, please, or at the initiative of the court. So we're going to get out of this difficult situation. In any case, only 5 percent of the decisions are challenged. Very often, people do not want to write down personal intimate relationships. We looked at this bill on the committee yesterday, and we took into account the observations of scientific and expert management, the legal administration, which we are very grateful for. They were accompanied by the leadership of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And today you've been handed over a bill that's being passed by a committee on legal policy. I'm asking you very much for your support. We're going to make this clear. Today, literally all judges await that decision. If we don't, it's going to be a difficult situation. In the final positions, we wrote that this was allowed until January 1, 2008. And then we're going to do what we have. And in addition, the following proposal is written: “For the sake of the parties or the initiative of the court, this position has been in force in the Criminal Procedure Code since 2002” and no complaints have been filed with the Committee or the Supreme Court. So I ask you, on behalf of the committee, to adopt this bill on both the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u111	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, I think the problem is quite clear. Unfortunately, we were in a hurry, as always. At first, judges were elected on an untimely basis. And they're going to do miracles, we can see that. Now we're in a hurry to give the equipment to a weapon that doesn't exist. That, if I'm not mistaken, would take 50 million dollars to equip the courts, and they're gone. Here we have written that only in the national language and that there are no translators to provide this process. And so on and so forth. So let's support the desire and initiative and the committee of profile, and so we've talked to the Ministry of Justice, and they also support it, and we're going to adopt, as a whole, as a law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to fix the trial by technical means. Registration number 8046. I put to the vote in general as a law. Please vote. Mobilize, please. [[17:59:08]] For-188. Dear colleagues! That's Michael's microphone. In the meantime, prepare, please. It'll be all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u112	Dear colleagues! I realize that by the end of the day, we were a little tired, perhaps not all of us had listened carefully to what was going on. Parliament was not wrong when, by adopting the new Administrative and Civil Procedure Code, it provided for the implementation of the constitutional norm, and we were not in a hurry, a government is late that cannot ensure the implementation of the law that we have adopted with you. Thus, after considering the situation at the request of the court and the judicial system, the committee decided to postpone the imposition of a mandatory fixation for two years so that during this time: (a) premises were built and repaired, including courtrooms, so that the courts could send justice to the halls and not to the offices. That's the first one. The other one. In order for the equipment to be installed during this time to be able to record at the right level. So, respectable colleagues, on the matter, really, really serious. Please support the committee. We have carefully studied the situation and are not mistaken in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u113	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, go to work so I don't announce what you're doing. Please, I put to the vote on adoption as a whole, as a law amending some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 8046. [[on the identification of the court by technical means]] Please vote, mobilize. [[18:01:15]] For 248 Thank you. The law is passed. And another initiative. Dear colleagues, we have next Saturday, if I'm not mistaken, we'll have the day of the company's employees. We have a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. [[on the title "Deserved employee of the Ukrainian Foundation"]] Registration number 7408. Is there no objection? In general, we vote as the law. I'm voting as a whole as a law. [[18:02:11]] For 256 Thank you. Another honor we have entered with you. Yes, please turn on Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. The law was passed in general as a law. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! In the 2005 budget, technology parks were shut down. The government offered to change the tax on subsidies. We changed the law and introduced it instead of taxing the subsidy. But the government did not agree. Then we offered to give the government representatives to work out a common, acceptable law. The First Deputy Minister of Finance and First Deputy Minister of Economy were sent to us. We worked together on a new formulation of laws. It is different from the law we have passed. Therefore, the committee requests that Law 7248 be re-examined for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u115	I mean, dear colleagues, we should be looking at the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks. [[on the subsidy system]] The author is the national deputy of Yukhnovsky. Registration number 7248. They're making proposals for us to do it. I don't understand, and why send it back first, if you're working on it, we'll consider it when it's ready. I don't see the need to vote him now. It's just protocol that we're going to assign you and the committee to make a new choice, and we're going to look at it because it's in order of day. Do you have a deal? No problem. I can't see. I don't see any problems here. Yeah, and we still have Law 7037. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Sectoral Academy of Sciences and the Status of Their Property Complex. [[on income for the payment of services]] Bill number 7037. Reports by Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! It is proposed to extend to the law that Adam Ivanovich announced by Martinyuk article 63 of the law in force, the Act on Higher Education. Especially. The aim is to introduce into the law "On the specificities of the legal regime of the activities of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the sectoral Academy of Sciences and the status of their property complex", including Article 105 adds one part, which fully repeats the text of the Higher Education Act. It's about giving scientific institutions the right to use legitimately earned funds to solve social issues, such as the granting of bonuses, material aid, travel and so forth. The Supreme Council Committee on Science and Education fully supported this initiative and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this law, which is an addition in the first reading. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also recommends accepting this supplement, these changes in the first reading. I'm asking you, dear friends, because it's about the social concerns of scientists and scientists, to support this proposal, this project. I hope so much for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u117	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Have a seat. Please microphone Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education. What's the Committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, the Committee fully supports this Law and all that Sergey Ivanovich said.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u119	Thank you so much for your surgery. Yes, shall we vote? Yeah, two words won't work, because you're not written down. From Nadrav, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u120	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today's higher education institutions, I have not been approached once by the same Lugano Pedagogical University, with the opportunity to earn money, are not actually managed by them. There are a lot of people who want to rule out where and how this money goes. Therefore, the People's Party faction would clearly support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m1.u121	Thank you. Vote? Vote. Better, better, Mikola Vasilovich, support the vote. I know that you want to support Ukraine as a scientist, let's press two hands with one button and everything will be right. We are voting on the Act on Amendments to the Law on the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Sectoral Academy of Sciences and the Status of their Property Complex. Registration number 7037. On the basis of the first reading, we vote. It's a little more friendly than that. [[18:08:50]] For 269 Thank you. Maybe we should take it as a law. I put it to a vote to accept it as a law. Please vote. [[18:09:15]] For 275 Thank you. 275, Act adopted. On this note, dear colleagues, I want to consult with you. You remember that we haven't raised a question this week, and it was settled, and tomorrow we're supposed to have a second question -- information from the government about the situation in the agricultural and industrial complex. I think we're going to do absolutely consciously with you, and that's right, if we don't consider this issue tomorrow, because the government is retired. And, of course, that's why we agree, right? Dear colleagues, let's be wiser. And as we conclude today, I am very grateful to all of you that on such a difficult day for our country, the state, the government, and so on, the Supreme Council has demonstrated once again that it is the highest legislative body in the country, the representative of the people of Ukraine. And thank you so much for the fruitful work that we have done with you today. This evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m.
