ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:49]] They registered in the 408 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 17 November 2005. Twenty-five issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: four laws and 10 decrees were passed, four bills were adopted on a basis, three bills were drafted, three bills and two draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals: one law has been passed in a new edition, one law has been repealed. Dear colleagues, now the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Demjokina Vladimir Anatoliyevich into the Ukrainian ‘Region’ faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Sigala Evgen Jakovič from the People's Party. Dear colleagues, after that, after 11, 11/10-11.15, we will have the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Abeshevich Nazarbaev in our guests in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He will address the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to take that into account. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make applications, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Mikoli Komara to the President of Ukraine for violating the memorandum of understanding between power and opposition, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:35]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Anatoly of the Writer to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the National Security Council and. I'm sorry, dear colleagues. Anatoly of the Writership to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the RNB, the heads of the BSS on the official inadequacy of the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, which poses a threat to national security, undermines confidence in Ukraine as with the transit State in the negotiations with Russia on gas transit. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:31]] For 208 Request supported. I would like to vote on the motion to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:06:53]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Who is responsible for returning to the consideration of this question? [[10:07:20]] For 239. We're back. Who's in favour of sending this request to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:07:42]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister regarding the use of measures to save lives for people with chronic renal insufficiency. Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister on the accident situation of the School Gymnasium in the town of Dromkovka Donetske oblast. [[CORSACKOV, SUCHI, SAMOFALOV]] VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the completion of the reconstruction of the clinic in the village of the Red Army of the Žitomir region. Anatoly of the DOMANS to the Prime Minister, Head of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine, Secretary of the RNBO on the unlawful conduct of the head of the Alexandri District Administration of the Kirovograd region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the situation in the agro-industrial complex of Biocerkishka. Vitalia MOYCA to the Prime Minister for the delivery of documentation by the end of 2005 under previously concluded external economic contracts on the basis of permits issued by Derjesportcontrol. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister on the situation at the State Enterprise Odeski Ship Repair Plant “Ukraine”. Igora STAŠA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of the educational and manufacturing workshops of the higher vocational school of the city of Stry Lvivsk district. Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister on the repayment of debt from earnings by enterprises of state-owned property on the basis of the funds received from the privatisation of state property. [[COMAR, CORSACOV, DRY]] Alexander KEMENYACHA to the Prime Minister for the settlement of the situation around the factory of heavy pneumatics and cranes in Odessa. Leonidas SERGEANTA to the Prime Minister for violating the rights of librarians to pay for work and social protection. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister for violation by the Ministry of Defence of the rights of a military pensioner, a disabled person and a group of residents of the city of Cherkasa for receiving a pension. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the inappropriate consideration of the appeal regarding the inclusion of a number of objects in the radiation-polluted areas of the Plain area for funding in 2006 under the Chernobyl Building Program. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the breakdown of funding from the State budget for Bilocerkish gasification objects. Mr. Andria Derkača to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the RNBO on violations by officials of the Minpalevenergo, the National Energy Company, the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Ukrainvestexpertism, the Directorate of the Hmělnické AES, the constitutional rights of citizens to safety and the environment. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Prime Minister for the construction of the Crevice mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores. Alexander KARENKA to the Prime Minister on the threat of an extraordinary sanitary and epidemiological situation in the Bogorodčany region of Johno-Frankow region due to a halt in the operation of clean-up facilities. GREGORY OF CALETNIKA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science of Procedural Procedural Procrastination in the City of Percin, Zacarpathian District of Public Education. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the removal of the land of the Ustinian Correctional Colony No.37 and its transfer to the Ingula territorial community of the Ustinov region. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Attorney General, Ministry of Health, on the death tolls of patients with renal insufficiency in the Zaporozhye District Hospital as a result of the failure to provide the necessary medical care and the cessation of gross violations of their rights to life and health. PAUL QUICHANA to the Prime Minister for the return of an unfinished building on the Institute Street in Kiev to the administration of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Hennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister for the work of the Ukrainian Social Investment Fund in the Poltav region regarding the implementation of micro-projects of the fund in the villages of the Mirgrod region. Igora STAŠA to the Prime Minister on the situation that has arisen on the open stock company “Strijska plant “Metalist”. FIXA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the elimination of violations of the Library and Library Act in connection with the illegal movement of the Poltava District Library for Children and its Funds without the provision of equivalent, orderly premises. The Minister of Education, Minister of Education, Minister of Education and Science for the financing of the reconstruction of the New Alexandrian School of Education of the Bratsky District of Mikolaiiv Region. Alexander KISELOVA to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the bridge across the Bill Tis River in the village of Rostok in the Zakarpatsky region. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economic Affairs, Minister of Justice, Head of the Court of Auditors, Head of the City of Kiev on the establishment of an equal relationship between the State budget and local budgets, the cessation of questionable practice of removals from local budgets to the State budget and the need for the return of the city of Kyiv to a debt from the State budget. Alexander TKALENKA to the Prime Minister about the situation in the agriculture sector of the region of Bilozer in connection with the adverse weather conditions of 2005. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice on the violation of the laws “On Local Government Administrations” and “On Public Service” by the Head of the Equality District State Administration. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Prime Minister on the rationale for a sharp increase in the level of pay for the work of the President, Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, other officials of the central and regional executive and judicial branches of government and local self-government. Efima FIXA to the Prime Minister on the inaction of the Odessa authorities in the area of restoration following the fire of the architecture “Museum of the Navy of Ukraine”. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Board, the Attorney General, the Head of the DPA on the export of scrap metal from Ukraine without paying the export duty, which caused Ukraine to suffer significant losses. Mr. Alexander CERNOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Health, Minister of Environmental Protection, Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Kiev City Head on the need for additional funding from the State Budget for measures aimed at solving the complex environmental problems of Kiev. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister for the transfer to the municipal property of the regional communities of the Kalanczyk district of the Herson area of the Black Sear healing and health complex. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of eco-transparency work in the park of the city of Fastov. Anatolya MOROZA to the Prime Minister for the payment of one-time financial assistance to war veterans under the Act on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection. Mr. Mikoli ODARNIKA and Mr. KARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, the Secretary-General of the RNBO, the Attorney-General on the misconduct of officials of the Luhansk district government administration in falsifying statements on behalf of the members of the district council on the alleged support of the former head of the Danielov administration, the failure of the President to execute the mandate to build an anti-tuberculosis sanatorium in the Lugansk region, to verify the targeted use of the budget allocated for this purpose. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Cabinet of Ministers for the financing of the Gasification Program of the village of Ssnore Brezni district of Ravensk. Alexander CARENKA to the Prime Minister for the implementation of the capital repair and restoration of the architecture monument, the central corps of the Czernovetsk National University. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Prime Minister on the situation surrounding Odessa Holding Company Krayan in connection with the company’s bankruptcy and its efforts to close it. Vladimir ĆENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko for the construction of a private legal consultation in the area of Children's Youth Sports School No. 1 in Umani. Anatolia Rachánsk to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko for not responding to the request regarding the pension of a citizen of Malisheva. Jury DYDENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister for compensation for farmers and low-priced dairy farms, which will stimulate the development of the dairy sector. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney-General on the illegal construction of the Ozarkewich street building workshop in Ivano-Frankivsk. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney General about the unsatisfactory activities of the District Attorney’s Office in Montenegro and the District Attorney’s Office in the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of the eaters of the consumer society of the district. Tamara Proscuratou to the Attorney General regarding the procedural violations and the unsatisfying course of the investigation of a criminal case brought against the village’s head. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General for bringing the members of the Commission to justice for complaints from the participants of the proceedings was purchased at the state expense of the Ministry of Economics. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General on the situation that arose between the local community of the village of Baslika Kivertsi district of Volin Region and the company “Ribgosp Tsuman” of the shareholders’ association “Volinribgosp” as a result of the submerged site. Mr. Vladimir Chernjak to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the delay in the prosecution of a criminal case. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, to draw the responsibility of the district inspector of Borków, the Latin region of the Winnitsky region, and to ensure that the house is properly investigated. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Board for Credit Transactions between the City Council of Nižin and Prominvestbank. Mary MARKUS to the Attorney General on the inaction of the authorities of the Odessa District Prosecutor’s Office to appeal to the work team of the Killian Guild for a violation of their rights. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General for the violation of the interests of the State and the ineffective work of the prosecutor in matters related to the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. Andrija DERKAČA to the Attorney General on the signs of the preparation of the crime by the officials of Minpalevenergo, the National Energy Shareholder, Energoat, the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Ukrainvestexpertism, the Energy Project stock company, the Department of Hmělnická AES, the State Science and Engineering Center of Emergency Response Systems, which may have severe consequences for the safety and health of citizens, environmental safety of the environment. Leonida KRAVČUKA to the Attorney General, Ministry of Health on the causes of the death of a citizen named Mariana Bagrilo and the violation of the Law on Citizens' Appeal in the Lviv region. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney General about the legality of the actions of officials of Dnipropetrovsk Mesquikkonk in connection with the eviction from the home of a large family without the provision of other housing. GREGORY CALETNIKA to the Attorney General on the examination of the criminal record of the Grushov village head of the Zakarpat district. BORISS OF THE UNBALL to the Attorney General regarding the situation with the investors of the Intercontinental Bank. Igor GRINOVA to the Attorney General's Office, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Secretary of the RNBO, Kiev City Head, Security Service, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the risk of loss of State control over the production of documents of strict reporting through State-owned contracts between the former management of the IMF and the private consortium “EDAPS”. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney General for the establishment of the Connotapian City Head of the Suma Region. Mr. KRUKA and Mr. Stanislav STRECK to the Attorney-General for the protection of the interests of the State. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for the return of the inhabitants of the village of Lozovatka in the region of the Kirovograd district of Malovski. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General on the illegal sale of land and corruption by the Ministry of Defence in the construction of housing for military personnel and members of their families. Alexander KISELOVA to the Attorney General on the violation of urban requirements and sanitary standards in the construction of cemeteries in Cherkasa. Eugene LAPINA to the Attorney General on the violation of legislation on the financing of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Property Fund and its representation. Mr. Vladimir NICHIPREK to the Attorney General for the fabrication of a criminal case against the citizen of Sviwaka with the aim of acquiring the Open Shareholder Society “Theofipolska Sugar Plant” by the People’s Deputy Hubski. A group of deputies to the Attorney General regarding the delay in criminal investigation of violations by former officials of the U.S. School of Education “Herson College”. [[KOSTINJUK, KRUZI, KUBAROV]] MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General on the situation that took place at the state-owned airline “Kyivska Aviation Company Airways”. Victor MUSIAKI to the Attorney General for dissatisfaction with the response to the appeal regarding the opposition of prosecutors in the Kharkiv area to the responsibility of those guilty of electoral fraud. Kseniya LAPINOY to the Attorney General, Ministry of Health, on the obstacle to the production of TT “Kyivska Soda Plant” by law enforcement and control authorities. Anatolya RACHANSIAH to the Attorney General, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, for excessive cost of services in privatizing the land parcels of low-income citizens in rural areas. The Gennady of Stacey to the Attorney General regarding the investigation of a criminal case involving Satsuk. Kirila POLIČUKA to the Attorney General for the protection of the interests of the aviation sector in Ukraine. Anatolia GREZYEVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the holding fund, on the non-admission of the destruction of the crane-building plant of the open-ended holding company Krayan in Odessa. VADIM MISSURE to the Attorney General, the Minister for Family Affairs and Youth on the wasteful management of the State Sport Hotel, the violation of the labour rights of its employees. VICTOR KING to the Attorney General for speeding up the search for a suspect in a serious crime. Deputies' groups to the Attorney-General on the reasons for the absence of a prosecutorial response to violations of legislation by the Chief Executive of Culture, Art and Cultural Heritage of the Kyiv City Department and the Director of the Hydropark Municipal Company in organizing illegal commercial activities in the area of the cultural park and the hydropark rest. [[TKALENKO, MANCHULENKO, NEIGHBOR]] Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, concerning the failure of law enforcement authorities to monitor the implementation of the Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage at the regional level. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Attorney General on the need for the Prosecutor's Office of the Volin Region to sue the court for an illegal decision by the Volin District Council on the rehabilitation of UN-OPA and the recognition of UPA as a warring party during the war. Valery CONANOVALJA to the Attorney General, Head of the Central Crimea, on violations of land law and the purposeless use of budgetary resources by the Health Head of the Kasilkov region of Kiev. WOLDODIMIR GOSHOVSKI to the Attorney General about the misuse of copyright for music. Mr. Jury KRUKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the purpose of determining the circumstances of the road accident. Alexander MASSENKA to the Attorney General for officials in the distribution of property from the private agriculture company “Clibob” to the village of Bilozerkowci in the Pyratin district of Poltava. Mr. Vladimir SPIVAČUČKA and Mr. Mikoli ROJKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the facts of gross violations of legislation in the management of the Czerka Directorate “The Shrine” of Lupina. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Interior, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the capture of the administrative premises of the Open Shareholder Society, the Management of the Construction of the Hmělní nuclear power plant, and the opposition to legitimate economic activity by an organized group of persons. TO THE Attorney General, the head of the DPA regarding the abuse of the people’s representative of Hubsky and his clan by deceiving the state for more than 50 million dollars. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the head of the President's Secretariat on the low quality of citizens' appeals by the regional reception of the President of Ukraine in the Chernigiv region and local executive structures. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Health for the promotion of separate categories of citizens with the necessary medication. Ms. BICHKOVA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the subject of double-securitisation from companies that pay fixed agricultural taxes, insurance contributions to the National Social Insurance Fund in the event of unemployment. Igor GRIEVA to the Ministry of Economics, the head of the Court of Auditors on the risk of losing state control over the use of budgetary resources for the production of strict reporting documents under contracts between the former IMF management and the private consortium EDAPS. Larissa UZAČANKO to the Minister of Education and Science, Minister for Youth and Sports, Minister of Defence for the transfer of the Kyiv military aircraft Boden to the Kyiv Military Plane Educational and Health complex of the Kyiv military aircraft of the city of Boyarka. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Minister of Education and Science in connection with the provision of parties and chairs to the public schools of 69 in the constituency of the district of Žitomir. Mr Mihović to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the violation of the rights and interests of citizens at the Ukrainian-Hungarian border. MICHELLE RUDIC to the Minister of Health, Minister of State for Emergency Situations, and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Minister of Finance for the Emergency Status of the Engineering Network of the district tuberculosis dispenser in Chernih. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the liquidation of the debt for the delivery of milk by the donors of Hmylnické and the Latin region of the Winnitsky region. TO THE Minister of Education and Science, Tamara is responsible for delivering school buses for the transport of students who live in the mountain range of the district of Zacarpathia. Ms. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister of Justice for Remuneration on Wages. Larissa UZAČENKO to the Minister for Agricultural Policy on Agriculture Problems. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the provision of special transport services for disabled persons and groups, the disaster fighter at the Chernobyl AES. SERGEANT BICHKOVA to the Minister of Economics on ensuring that patients with chronic kidney disease lack life - sustaining materials. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of granting a citizen the status of airlifter at the Chernobyl AES. MICHELLA’S and MICHAELS to the Ministry of Education and Science on violations by the Interregional Academy of Tax Administration and the activities that are incompatible with education. Victor KYRILLOVA to the Minister of Defence, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Head of State for the illegal conduct of tenders and the distribution of budgetary resources in the Ministry of Defence. Igora ŠURMI to the Minister of Defence regarding the violation of pension legislation to eliminate the imbalances in the pension insurance of military personnel formed depending on the time they were released from military service. Nestor SHUFRIC to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the violation of the rights of the group's disabled in addressing socio-economic problems as a low-income family. Jurya KROWRUČKA and Bogdan KOSTINJUK to the Minister of Transport and Liaison on the facts of the pressure of individual leaders of the “Urzlzląznica” on members of the Party of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Vladimir W.W.S.A. to the Ministry of Health regarding the purchase of medical equipment for the Skadovian District Medical Union of the Hersonian Region. To the Minister of Justice, Vladimir YAVORIYSKE for the unsatisfactory organization of the work of state notarial offices, whose visits to Ukrainian citizens are being turned into torture. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to resolve the issue of debt repayment for the thermal supply of the Grebinków Railway Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Poltava region. Leonidas KADENUKA to the Ministry of Defense for the nonpayment of cash for goods to military personnel released from the reserve. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the publication by a non-grant member of the Consul of the Republic of Poland in connection with his humiliation of the national dignity of the Ukrainians during the illegal opening of a monument in the village of Guti Peniyecki of the Region of Lviv. MICHELLA to the Minister of Justice on the execution of the decision of the court on the return to state ownership in the person of the Fund holding a package of shares of the open stock company “Nicopolly Ferrospile Factory”. Mr. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Minister of Defense for the violation of the legal rights to social protection of officers released without full benefit. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Ministry of Defence to grant permission to remove the land for the construction of the temple in the city of Lviv. Anatoly of ORJAHOV to the Minister of Justice concerning the unlawful actions of the judicial authorities of the Skadevian region of the Hersonian region to protect the rights and interests of citizens. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Ministry of Education and Science on the non-execution by the Ministry of the School Information and Supply Program for 2005 in the Ivano-Frankiv Region. Vladimir Paka to the Minister of Justice on the inaction of State executives of the High Town and Tarastian Department of Justice of the Kyiv Region and the delay in the execution of judgments. Leonida KADENJUKA to the Ministry of Transport and Communications regarding the unsatisfactory work of urban transport in Kiev. Group of Deputies (KOVAL, CHUBAROV, KOSTINJUK) to the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Defence, to expedite the conduct of an expert study commissioned by the Attorney General in the case of the death of Vjacheslav Crnovola. Mr. Nestor Šufrich to the Minister of Industrial Policy, Head of the Holding Foundation, on the groundless closure of the firm “Cherkay Chymvolokno”, illegal dismissal of workers and violations of legislation in payment of wages. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Head of Odessa District State Administration for the collection of debt on the payroll of citizen Hukalov. TO THE Head of the State Committee of Statistics on Information on Taxpayers in the Field of the Gambling Business. MICHELLE TO THE CULCHIN HEAD OF THE U.S.A. Regarding the illegal activity of Zhongdao’s representatives in the area of machine building. Vladimir LEVCUN to the Qualifying Commission of Justices of Kiev regarding the circumstances of the civil case by the Obolon District Court. Ally ALEXANDROWS to the Head of Kharkiv District State Administration for the restoration of the Kharkiv pharmaceutical plant and for the punishment of those responsible for leading the factory to bankruptcy. Teams of deputies to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the facts of the violation by the deputy head of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev of the rules of procedural and material law in the civil case. [[TROPHIMENKO, GORBACHOV, MOCROUSOV]] Vladimir WOJŠA to the Head of the Government of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment for the completion of the construction of the sleeping quarters of the Gopri sanatorium in the town of Gola Port of Hersson district. Vladimir YAVORlSKI to the Head of Interpol’s National Bureau in Ukraine for the unimpeded exit from Ukraine of former mayor Odessa Ruslan Bodelan, wanted by Interpol’s National Bureau and accused of abuse of power and office, who works in St. Petersburg. JANUARY to the Head of the Supreme Council of Crimea, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on improving the conditions of children, women, and persons with disabilities, on providing them with social conditions. EUGEN HIRNIKA to the Lugansk City Head, Prosecutor of the Lugansk Region, for the involvement of the organizers of the action on 14 October 2005 in Lugansk, aimed at fuelling international hostility and eliminating the illegally established, so-called “memory sign”. VICTOR TERENA to Kiev’s city head on the grounds and the rightfulness of welding the garbage in Kiev’s multistory buildings without the consent of its inhabitants. Vladimir Paka to the first Deputy Director General of the State Railway Administration for violations by the South West Railway and Counterparties station in the use of the train. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Head of the Air Force for violating members of the Law Enforcement Service regarding employees of the state-owned enterprise “Kyiva Aviation Company Airways”, the heads of the independent industry of this company. Vladimir LEVCUN to the Qualifying Commission of Judges of Kiev on the situation of civil proceedings before the Bologna District Court of Kiev. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Head of the Provincial Regional Public Administration regarding the formal and bureaucratic attitude of the State authorities in the area towards the elimination of the effects of the submergment of the part of the city of Pomní Dobroveličov district. A group of deputies to the Kiev City Head, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General for the construction of high-rise buildings in Kiev in the area of Klovski Vistula Street and the Vineyard. [[H. BONDARENKO, HERASIMOV, GURENKO and others]] Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the abuse of office by officials of the Žitomir district administration of Rudik and Gerasimczuk. Vladimir Paka and other national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing to justice the disciplinary responsibility of the prosecutor of the Highgarden region of the Hasarin region of Kiev for systematic gross violations of the law in force in the performance of their duties. [[17 Only]] MIKOLI ONISTUKA and Vitalia MOYKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on illegal checks on the financial and economic activities of the U.S. Thus, honourable colleagues, 141 MPs have been asked. According to factions: Communists of Ukraine 25, “Regions of Ukraine” 6, “Our Ukraine”, “15, Block Timoshenko – 13, Socialist Party – 10, Ukrainian People's Party – 2, SDPU (o) – 27, National Block – 4, “Trust of the People” – 3, political party “Reforms and Order” – 10, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 2, People's Movement – 8, non-fractional – 10. What? What? Let's go back. Then I'll ask for the request that Mikola Komar made. Who's to go back to examining the MP's request? Mikoli Komara to the President of Ukraine for violating the memorandum of understanding between power and opposition, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Please vote. [[10:37:05]] For 235 We're back. I would like to vote on the motion, on the support of Mikola Komar's request to the President of Ukraine for a violation of the Memorandum of Understanding between Power and Opposition, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It's about support. [[10:37:36]] For 221 We've got it. It's been supported, and it's going to take 150. Now for the request to the President of Ukraine. There's a vote coming. [[10:38:01]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Who, in order to return to the parliamentary request of Anatolia Pisarenko to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the RNB, the Head of the SBU on the official inadequacy of the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, which poses a threat to national security, undermines confidence in Ukraine as a transit state in negotiations with Russia on gas transit, please vote. [[10:38:42]] For 248 We're back on request. I am voting in favour of this request. [[10:39:06]] For 258. Request supported. I put it to a vote: to refer Anatoly Pisarenko's request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:39:29]] For 264 Anatoly Pisarenko's request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Yes, please, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Yes, Mikhailo Polyanov, People's Movement faction, please. Mikhailo Polinov is handing over the right to give a speech to Jaroslav Kendzior, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u2	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! Yesterday's session day, from my point of view, was a day of great autonomy, especially when questions were being considered regarding the definition of the upper limit of pensions and the consideration of the draft law amending the article of the Sixth Ukraine on State guarantees for the restoration of Ukrainian citizens' savings. Yesterday, on the first issue of pension and salary, I made a statement from this rostrum and stressed that these are the factions, namely Communists, esdeks and “Regions”, and some others, when the third number of finance ministers Victor Pinzenik reported and proposed very much, as they say. Specific decisions were not supported by these factions. Now, when they're exposed to public outrage, they're saying they want to take the initiative and offer their solutions to the problem. But the second problem that was discussed yesterday is the Act of Ukraine amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Maintaining Guarantees of Restoration of Citizens' Savings. No one, and especially, once again, the Communist faction's representatives have offered no other very specific idea, which I have not once proposed from this rostrum. We know 136 billion. the former Soviet Carbovanians were recalculated in early 92 to the then central bank, the Soviet Union's savings. And today I'm proposing, I'm giving a hint to the faction of Communists who, in all their years of independence, are doing the commission of the Russian Communists, the Moscow Kremlin here in the session hall to ask their Communist brothers in the Russian Duma to adopt a law that would oblige the Russian Federation to return to Ukraine, to the Ukrainian citizens of 136 billion people, to the specific money of Ukrainian citizens. By the way, such a request and such a request to Russia should also be made by parliament in general, both by the Cabinet of Ministers and by the President of Ukraine. Because Russia is very much in debt to Ukraine, and somehow we are ashamed to put our claims, our accounts to the Russian Federation. So, Communist gentlemen, help Ukrainian citizens decide to get their stolen savings from the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u3	Peter Cibenko, instead of Oleg Grachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u4	Statement by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. Dear voters, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is growing opposition at the center of which is the protection of a man’s flock, or the betrayal of his interests. This clearly showed yesterday’s vote on the two bills introduced by the Communist factions. One is aimed at limiting the maximum pension of a variety of public officials, judges, prosecutors, deputies, ministers, and civil servants. Another is aimed at filling the pension budget through the introduction of a congregation from the entire salary of high-income workers and from the income of officials and entrepreneurs, thus increasing the pensions of 11 million Ukrainian citizens. Thus, the traitors of the people's interests, regardless of their attractive, conveniently called race-morda people, have not been able to solve the problem. The Communist faction alone voted in favour of solving the problem. Who protected the pensioner’s home? Here's how the factions voted in favour of including the problem in the order of the day and dealing with it essentially: the "One Ukraine" faction -- 0 of the 14 factions of industrialists and entrepreneurs -- 0 of the 14; the "Regions" faction -- 3 of the 54th; the People's Party faction -- 13 of the 46th; the "Trust", whose nation is unknown -- 1 of the 16th; the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block -- 11 of the 34th. This is where populism ends and the responsibility begins. What do we have in the “dry remnant ”? People's deputies have been left with a previous, unremunerated pension due to their return to their previous salary, terminator ministers, orange chiefs, mid-field commanders, starting with Pinzenik's chief national happiness fighter, a saved salary of 18-20 thousand dollars and a pension of 16-18 thousand dollars. The “revolutionaries ” in the paws in the minister’s chairs were conveniently set. Along with them are judges, prosecutors, high-level civil servants. This is the gift for the orange Sabbath anniversary that the field commanders and such a Barfolomy night had for themselves. This is the true face of orange power. The Communist faction will continue to fight for a just resolution of the pension issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u5	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. We've prepared Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! At the request of our colleague Kendzior, we will certainly ask Russian comrades to provide materials for the prosecution of Kendzior's criminal responsibility for the theft of the “capter” when he was carrying out, let us say, service in the ranks of the Soviet lava. I think it'll be a good thing to figure out the morals of such, let's say, politicians. Dear village laborers! In the winged words “there will be bread – there will be a song” reflects all the greatness and all the depth of the assessment of the chandelier. On the eve of the professional festival of the village workers, we bow low to those who, in their dedicated work, lovingly and lovingly care for our native land, with honor and dignity despite all differences, hold special responsibility for it to the moral and spiritual values of our people. With pain and despair, he faces his professional laborer feast. The orange power of our Socialists did not bring the expected millions to restore the village. Trouble in almost every village. Ruined fields, destroyed farms, and mass unemployment. In what village, despite all the promises of the field authorities, were left alone with their problems. At the same time, new old councillors in power are once again proposing a new agrarian policy, which is limited to selling land. We Communists believe that only a peasant can save the village, who will understand the damage of capitalist transformations in Ukraine's years of independence. I am confident that the wisdom of life from the earth and in the name of the earth organizes the peasants for a great and holy fight for the right to meet the dawns in their fields, to rejoice in the cherry gardens, the perfumed edge of the new crop. We'll save the land from the sale. We're going to save Ukraine. To trade bread, not land. With such a slogan, Communists are becoming problems in our village. With faith in man’s eternal wisdom from the earth, with long years of well - being and well - being in every village, the Communists sincerely welcome you all. And as they say, thank you to the hands that smell like bread. With the celebration of you, ladies and gentlemen. And as for the events that happened yesterday, I'm on behalf of the faction of the Communists that I want to state. Those who have betrayed the people of Ukraine in Maidan today lie every day from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Because we have to lie to people to believe in another lie and, that is, hebbel’s propaganda today to deceive people on another occasion. This is precisely the tactics and principles with which representatives of nationalists and socialists go into power and use it only for the looting and looting of Ukraine. Thank you. And you, peasants, with the feast.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u7	Alexander Stoyan, “Ukraine” faction. Please, your performance. Prepare Goodimi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u8	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Party. I want to go to the citizens of Ukraine, to the media, because yesterday, across the media, it was said that the MPs didn't want to cancel the big salary and didn't want to cancel the high pension. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Deputies to the high wages of no one had a bearing. What happened? And that's what happened. On June 30, the government of Tymoshenko, by its decrees, raised the wages several times: themselves – 24,000, the President – 33, the ministers – 15-17 thousand. And MPs, who are compared to ministers, were automatically set on fire. And our Chief of the Supreme Council of Lithuania didn't sign these payrolls until September. That is why when such large wages were made, they decided to blame the deputies. It's a pear company, it's an attempt to transfer responsibility to us with you, discredit us as deputies. What does the faction of the Party of Regions suggest? The answer is very simple. We appeal to Mr. Yehanurov: “Mr. Yehanurov, if you are not on Timoshenko’s team, if you are not in cahoots with her, today immediately cancel 13 decrees and return those salaries that have been paid to ministers, to other government officials, will automatically become the same salaries as the national deputies, and the problem will be solved.” Now it's about retirement. There's no problem here, because the pension is made from salary. Of course, high wages were raised, pensions were recalculated, and pensions became thousands and tens of thousands. If the wages go back to the way they were before this disgraceful decision, you're fine. Tomi we say: “Mr. Yehanurov, you will report on Maidan, report to the people, so that the rich may help the poor, help the poor, even though you may pay back your wages, make yourself human.” I think we need to do this. And I am addressing our Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania. Vladimir Mikhailovich, why are you silent? Why don't you hold a press conference, why don't you go to the media and tell them that the MPs aren't involved. Our final demand is: “Mr. Yehanurov, immediately accept orders and set order in the wage.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I confirm that the MPs have nothing to do with this. Alexander Goodima is invited to the presentation. I won't. Fedorchuk Jaroslav. You won't? George Manchulenko. Get ready for the girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u10	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party on the 2006 collapse of local elections On November 17, the Supreme Council of Ukraine took a serious dangerous step towards the collapse of the 2006 local elections. A list of issues for consideration at plenary meetings from 15 to 18 November, approved on 14 November by the Conciliation Board of Parliamentary Committees, factions and groups, was scheduled for one of the first to consider at the plenary meeting on 17 November the question of the appointment of local elections on 26 March 2006. [[Bill No.7447 of the Ukrainian National MP Litvina Volodymyr Mihajlović]] And that was actually the deadline for the selection of local elections, because according to the Local Elections Act, Parliament is also appointing local elections no later than 120 days before the election day, i.e. the March 26, 2006, elections are to be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than November 25, 2006. But next week the MPs will be working in the constituencies. However, for unknown reasons, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine removed the question of the date of the local elections from the agenda of the day’s plenary on November 17. He's not here for the day. I mean, in the statutory term — no later than 25 November — local elections will not be scheduled. So it's a silent, slippery audit by the hands of the parliament of the Constitution of Ukraine on the timing of the local elections. In addition, the Conciliation Council decision of 7 November on the drafting of a bill amending the Local Elections Act is not being implemented, in part, to improve the electoral procedures of the local elections on electoral lists, to vote, to sum up the votes, and so on, to harmonize them with similar procedures in parliamentary elections. Without such changes, as everyone already knows, it will be impossible to hold honest and democratic local elections. In this regard, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party states: First. The faction confirms its position on the need to hold local elections in 2006 at the same time as the Parliamentary March 26, 2006, as required by the Constitution of Ukraine. The other one. The faction calls for a review of Bill No. 7447 and a decision to appoint local elections on March 26, 2006, today, November 18. The faction requires the Head of the Supreme Council to explain to all voters and the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the removal of Bill No.7447 on 17 November. The faction requires the head of Parliament to immediately execute what he has created, the working group, the decision of the Conciliation Council of 7 November to prepare a bill to amend the law on local elections on electoral procedures and to immediately submit to Parliament the relevant draft of its consideration, the adoption of the relevant law. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party has always stood, stood, and stood guard over the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u11	Yes, next, please, Omelyan Nikonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u12	I give the word to Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u13	Passes the word to Novak. Novak, please follow him, Bondarenko Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u14	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, respectful listeners, the situation in the rural village of Lis Greenitsa today, has forced me to approach the law enforcement agencies on this stand. Over the past years, the land and property of the state-owned “Hmelnicki” farm, which is included in the list of state-owned property that is not subject to privatization, has been embroiled in the territory of the Council of Hmelnicki district of Hmelnicki. Without the permission of the Fund of the Keeper of Ukraine, 90% of the major assets of the state were sold. Despite my requests for criminal cases, the Hmélník Paradise Administration was illegally transferred to the lease and transferred to the individual construction of 600 hectares of state-owned land. And no one wants to intervene. It's not like it's a state matter. Answers are being answered, criminal cases are closing. Success, without the Council's decision, has been the issue of state land ownership acts, while the State-owned State Act is not available for the second year. Among the 365 newly discovered landowners, there are no employees of the state. No resident of the village. Land areas are allocated to businessmen, district officials, or their children. At the same time, more than 400 inhabitants of the village of Lis. Click to add and require land under construction and for 14 years do not receive land because of lack of stock. There's a robbery going on. The faction of Communists has not repeatedly warned that authority rudely, cynically robs the earth of those who have worked on it for centuries and hands it to those who have no regard for it or who have no relation to it. We, the Communist faction, claim that the situation is similar to that of Ukraine as a whole with the difference in forests. They are already firing on cars and burning houses of rural deputies and activists. Such a state of affairs creates some social tension. On October 14, this year, a popular rally took place in the village of Lis. and., on which an appeal was made to the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Property Fund. The month has passed, silences are so concerned about the people who constantly speak about the protection of their interests. People rightly ask the President of Ukraine: “Sir, the President, why are bandits not in prison? As long as the State’s agents abuse their own people? Why are the officials and the money bags everywhere and the peasants who live on it not? Why do government officials demolish the state farm of Hmelnick? If you cannot give answers to these questions together with your environment, then let the Attorney General give them." Please consider my statement to be a request to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u15	Helen Bondarenko, to prepare Rudzkowski gives the word to Bokom. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u16	Bondarenko, Julia Timoshenko faction. Please pass the word to Michael the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u17	Please, Michaela the Tooth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! First of all, I would like to carry out the commission of the Julia Timoshenko Faction and, taking this opportunity, to welcome with professional celebration all agricultural workers, to thank you for your hard work, and most importantly, to wish you success for the future. Sadly, choosing them will be very difficult. The ten - month term of senior management of the agricultural sector has had a negative impact on the production of the agribusiness complex and its financial results. Negative processes not only do not disappear, but they do accumulate. The proposed scientifically based progressive technologies for the development of agro-industrial industries are not being used at all. The rural crisis grew because of the inept method of buying grain. The cost of a holiday price for sugar, which leads to destruction of both the grain and the stormy industries. For the first time in independence in 2005, the sown campaign failed, which has reinforced the already negative management of agriculture. There is concern that as a result, the country will run out of enough grain, and this is primarily a threat to national food security. The situation with the osmia has become extremely difficult. Nearly two million shortages and unsatisfactory crop yields will lead to an almost double increase in the area of seedlings of bright crops, nearly half of the basic soil treatment being moved to spring. And this is in the further deterioration of the material and technical base, especially in the near-exhaustible absence of funds, because according to previous estimates the agricultural sector as a whole is going to be bankrupt. New surprises to agriculture are government structures, ministries are preparing meat intervention policies from abroad. It's not just the additional loss of producers, it's a new blow to domestic animalry, which has just begun to get on its feet. Of course, it is far from festive meditation, but it is a bitter truth from which you do not go anywhere and which is the exact opposite of victorious relations that are very often heard from the mouth of those who need to be held accountable for the destruction of the agricultural sector. In conclusion, I want another warning from this high court to be given to our vulnerable high officials at the Ministry. By doing so in the agricultural market, you can now claim that not only did you deprive the peasants of the real money but you killed them with the desire to grow wheat, with just enough gross grain to leave the country without bread. And in the new year, we will have to support, not our own, but our foreign producer’s singing. My words to the villagers at this time, not an easy time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u19	The word John Boki, followed by George Kruczkov, conveys the word Masenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, we have just witnessed how a father-in-law protects his son-in-law. I mean, Mr. Dentist protects Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Melnik, who is the son-in-law and who, as you know, is also involved in the destruction of the village. But I went out to talk about it. From this rostrum, I have already talked about the situation with the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk. At the dawn of his presidency, Viktor Yushchenko, who visited the museum and listened, apologized for the three contentious Hammocks and one Lazarus, and had not heard the entire collection of museums, forced Sergey Galchenk to file an application for release. It's a wild situation when the head of state is walking around museums and filming directors. But we don't have that kind of thing, even in the governor's office, there could be real criminal thieves if they're from the Armor. The president of his Messianic habit, being only a dilettante in this area, intervened in the holy great art of museums, intervened as a busy collector who was friends with some collectors, and it was they who, coming out of their mercantile interests, urged him to release Galchenk. And now there is tremendous security to turn Ukrainian museums into collectors, as well as the appointment of a new minister of culture. During almost a year, a healthy group of the Museum of Shevchenka fought for Sergey Galchenk’s return. Now that Sergey Galchenko had been reinstated, he refused to return. With his refusal, another idea is conceptually to change, update and place on a modern scientific foundation the main museum of the Great Cobzar. In Ukraine, literary museums, in this sense, are hopelessly far from such museums, such as in Petersburg and Moscow. Galchenko, as an authoritative philosopher and the best Ukrainian textologist, will surely find himself in a scientific iposa, but the Ukrainian museum has lost much of this. He also lost the Shevchenka Museum. Today this beautiful room in the center of Kiev stands naked like a drum in every sense, the exposure is gone and will not be, and when it, in general, is unknown. Restoring the old shame, it's hopelessly stalled, and there's not enough for a new one after Galchenk, see, brains. The idea of restoring the Taras Shevchenk Institute at the museum, created at the same time by scholar Dmitr Bagley, cannot be organized for reasons of scientific incompetence and the minister and those he cares about. And if you don't pass it on to the National Academy of Sciences, that's the way it's going to be. This is what our President, in the manner and like of Kim Ir Sena, is starting to run a cultural structure in the city of the museum. This is what comes out of delitant's intentions and trying to get into a kitchen where there's a lot of cooking, not a lot of cooking, but a lot of science. I address this as an official request to the Prime Minister for the fate of the national.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u21	Georgi Kruczkov gives the word to Alexander Masenko, to prepare Malinowski, there is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u22	Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners, the day before the festival, the day of the agricultural worker and the day before the anniversary of the orange ferret that came to Ukraine, I would like to publish this address that came from the inhabitants of the village of Bilocerkova in the Pyratin district of Poltava, who are deeply outraged by the “Clybob” in the distribution of property rations in the natural expression. The management of the enterprise and the rural elite secretly received their share of the property from the rest of the farmers, leaving the vast majority of the peasants without part of it. As a result, two or three units of technology were delivered immediately outside the village. Among the lucky ones: the head of the household, the chief accountant, the mechanical engineer, the employees of the office, the syllabus, as well as the family heads of the board of directors and his first deputy, who are also the outposts of this village of Biloczerkowci. In their search for justice, the peasants appealed to the head of the socialist Bulba S.S., but the answer to their request has not yet been answered. Our case has also been denied by the lawyer to whom we have asked for advice.” Why did I decide to read this address to the deluded peasants? Because such facts are of a mass nature. Go to any area, any village, and we see such helplessness everywhere. So today I am addressing all the MPs who have contributed to this, all the factions that have contributed to this whole mess that is being created in the country. At the time, the Agrarian Party took responsibility for the results of reforms in the countryside. The socialists are now supporting this orange government and this president, who cannot bring order to our country, including agriculture. Those who sit on the right hand side, those who come out of the outposts, have also contributed to this mess in the village and are unable to help the village. That's why I'm addressing all of you: Your Honor, go to the village, help these destitute, deluded people find their possessions. And if you're powerless, if you don't have the brains to do that, then go to your Washington masters and let them come. They don't give you directions, they help you find the stolen property.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u23	Yes, Malinowski. None. Dmitri Pavlitzko, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u24	Honorable National MPs. I'm very rare in this rostrum. I just came back here. I never thought there could be such a thing. So much self-indulgence. Yeah, I was a hundred UPA when I was young, I was. Forty, I was in Spartan. But I was in the Communist Party the same way. I lived in Ukraine. And today I live in Ukraine. And don't point your finger at me because I'm a poet. And whoever points a black finger at a poet will be forgotten. Remember that Ukraine was created by the words of the poets, says Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we still have one. One procedure was completed. There's two more. Let's go to the second one. Dissatisfaction with queries. The word is Shurma, dissatisfaction with the response to requests from the Attorney General and the Security Service and others. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u26	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] For the second time in the last month, I am addressing national deputies, government officials with problems that exist around the town of Sosniuka, in the Lviv region. I would like to remind you that it was there that a tragedy occurred when dozens of children were diagnosed with fluoride. And for today, they wear artificial jaws instead of teeth, and they are actually disabled. I would like to stress in particular for the representatives of the faction “Our Ukraine”. Listen to what you are talking about. Because you have corporate responsibility for the situation in this town, the tragedy that residents experience every day. Take it because from the troubles of Sosnovka directly involved the Lviv governor Peter Olijnik, one of the leaders of your party. A man whose business has become one of the key causes of the environmental disaster. It is the head of the Lviv district administration, Peter Oliynik, who is the real owner of this death factory from various sources. It's not just me, it's talked about by thousands of solsticemen, that's what I said publicly in Lviv at a press conference by our colleague, the national deputy of Diminsk. I would like to stress that this factory, which causes most of the trouble for the city, belongs to the former red city head and now to Lviv Governor Peter Oliynik. Worst of all, in 2003, the property of the Sosnov city hospital was transferred to the community’s municipal property of the Lviv district council to the joint property of the Lviv regional communities. I would like to emphasize once again that such a decision has been made, not by the MPs of the Sosnov Region, but by the Red Cross, which was successfully led and led by the head of the Red Cross, the spokesman of the Viktor Yashchenka Block, “Our Ukraine”, dedicated to Peter Oliynik, the man Igor Zdziowicz. With this decision, the red - city deputies grossly violated article 143 of the Constitution on the rights of local communities. Next, history has a unique confirmation. Of course, on November 15, the session of the Lviv District Council made a decision to reestablish treatment at the Sosnow district hospital, which is what the whole city is up against. And Olinik himself said in the session: “To be such a hospital.” Once again, I appeal to the Attorney General's Office to challenge the decision of the Council of Montenegro to transfer the premises of the Sosno hospital to the municipal property of the Lviv District Council to the joint property of the territorial communities of the Lviv region. As well as the district council’s decision to reestablish a hospital at the Sosno hospital. I appeal to the Ministry of Health to set up a special commission to conclude that it is appropriate to create a hospital in the district hospital based on pines. I'm addressing President Yushchenk again. Victor Andryovich, be courageous and give political and moral assessment to the actions of your Governor Peter Oliynick, whose business is damaging to the health of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u27	Please not satisfied with the response to Kabmin requests. Andrew School, behind him Glady Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u28	Thank you. The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the “Paternity” Party. I would like to point out that I am actually dissatisfied not only with the content of the request but also with the form. So I like it when our government officials answer something like that, from two points. I want to remind you that the subject of my request concerns the illegal actions of the Republic of Moldova’s border guards in GES-2, Dniprovsky GES, which has led to the capture of part of Ukraine’s territory. Recently, in 2003, Moldovan border guards went to a hydrotechnological facility. which is part of Dniestrów's GAES and thus regulates the water level in itself. on the hydrotechnical building itself. I mean, all the time, every day, she needs Ukrainian care, by Ukrainian experts and technicians. And problems are constantly being created. Almost a large part of Moldova and the Odessa region are at risk. So I wanted to figure out at what stage were the negotiations on demarcation, delimitation of the border between Moldova and Ukraine. And I can clearly understand in my answer that given the proposed possibility of a demarcation line in such a way that the entire Dniestrovska AES complex remains in Ukraine is impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u29	Andrew, you'll do it later. Dear National Deputies! The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nürsultan Nazarbayev is in Ukraine with an official visit. Let us welcome a high guest and a great friend of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And let me invite the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev, to the address.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u30	I will take you away from your daily, hard work and thank you for your time and opportunity to stand before you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome you to the Supreme Council today, which has become one of the symbols of an independent and free country. [[Applause]] I feel special about your hospitable country where I spent my student youth. I remember with great warmth the years of training in Dniprodijnski, where I learned the power of the spirit and the beauty of the feelings of the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Dear friends, in Kazakhstan, where many nationalities live in friendship, including the large Ukrainian diaspora, we attach particular importance to deepening our close ties with the friendly people of Ukraine, with whom we have no political or economic problems, and there is mutual interest in trade in agreement, the benefits of both peoples and countries. I think you will find it interesting to learn from me about today's situation, our country's plans for the near future, although we often accept a delegation from Ukraine and without me, perhaps you know something. With independence, Kazakhstan entered as you did during a period of profound systemic transformation. Remembering the period of shocks associated with the breakup of the former Soviet Union, they did not side with us either. In the early 1990s, the Republic was in a difficult situation caused by the crisis of the planned economy. Huge efforts have been made to overcome inflation, stabilize the economy, manage public finances, improve monetary policy, free market forces and reform. The first step was a decisive change in ownership relations, which was a major challenge in the first phase of the mid-1990s. In this regard, rapid, vigorous privatization took place, which took place in four stages. Today, 85 per cent of Kazakhstan's economy is in private hands. Only the main oil and gas pipelines, the power grids, the oil and gas complex, the defence plants, and all remain public property. A reform of the administrative and territorial structure was undertaken, during which the administrative and territorial unit was optimized. Of the 19 areas left, 14 were left, and 230 were left with 160. We have paid 25 billion in the national currency, which was due at the time on pensions and salaries. I won't be supported by public servants if you give me that kind of applause. The main focus of the second phase of the reforms, before 1999, was the completion of the legal framework for the market economy in the national financial system. Parliament adopted these laws at the suggestion of the Government. That is what has been the basis for our progress and our reforms. With legislation in place in the world, the economy has become self-possessed, capitalized, domestic and external markets. As part of the reform of the public administration system, I said, the number of State apparatus has been significantly reduced. The most important is a system of public administration adapted to market economy requirements. The State practically, I think, in view of the Government, is completely out of direct economic activity, has left largely regulatory functions, stimulating socio-economic processes. In order to reduce the impact of political processes on the public apparatus, to increase its professionalism, Kazakhstan had adopted a public service law among the first of the post-Soviet States as early as 2000, creating legal prerequisites for the creation of a new model of public service based on the principles of assessing the promotion of public servants in the service based on professional quality knowledge. All staff are divided into political and administrative. The admission of administrative officials is condemned on a competitive basis through computer tests in the regions without interference from people there and so on. We have fundamentally reformed the financial sector, adopted a new budget system based on the principles of fiscal unity, strict spending limits, and the size of the State? All extrabudgetary funds and all government revenues were eliminated and expenditures were consolidated only in the Republic's local budgets. In 2004, the Budget Code had been adopted to systematize all budgetary legislation governing budgetary, inter-budgetary relations at all levels of the budget system, the principles of the mechanism and the formation of the funds used, adopted in 1995 in the Tax Code, had reduced the number of taxes more than three times, and had simplified tax procedures. The strengthening of the independence of the National Bank has enabled a large-scale effort to establish effective banking systems. At the rate of increasing supervision of the credibility of commercial banks. To date, Kazakhstan's banking system has generally been brought to international standards, which has restored and significantly increased its confidence on the part of the population and investors. It provides a full measure of economic growth. Besides, we don't have a National Bank of State banks. 34 banks that have consolidated the guarantee of public contributions have enabled the population to double its contributions to banks annually. Today, Kazakhstan’s banks have a total capitalization of $28 billion, almost 50 per cent of GDP and a shipping portfolio of $18-19 billion. Despite all the difficulties, electricity reforms have been implemented in the country. All power stations were sold in private – this allowed electricity to compete and reduce the cost of electricity. Only highway LEP-250-500 remained with the State. Even rivers are all privatized. And now I don't know how to fix where the gas comes from, what you're suffering from, and who's buying it isn't relevant. This is done by repairing boilers, gas pipelines and so on and so on. Housing-communal reform has been carried out, and there has been no public subsidies in Kazakhstan for a long time. All of this has become private, cooperatives have been set up for the owners of apartments, who themselves decide to purchase heat carriers, energy carriers. We're subsidizing, I think, you also have this, if you have the family's utility fees above 30 percent of the income, that's what we're subsidizing, and it's getting smaller and smaller every year. [[Applause]] We have carried out systemic pension reforms that I think are a difficult task for you. A savings system has been introduced in addition to a solidarity pension since the first January of 98. The reform of the pension system has made it possible to settle all outstanding pension and social benefits. We have chosen a model that is socially oriented towards the market economy, as stated in the Constitution. Kazakhstan has a number of social programmes covering the main areas of social protection, employment expansion, labour adaptation and social reform. Retired age: 58 women, 63 men. I'm sorry I didn't do 65 right away. And today, 10 per cent of the people, according to the law, are credited to their private pension fund, then the employer and those who have worked in Soviet times have retired, and we pay them from the budget and their pension. This has allowed us, since the year 99, all the work we have done to completely monetize all the benefits that Russia has tried to do earlier this year, but in a different way. The investment area was a priority. The pension funds are now up to 5.5 billion people. The funds that will work for the infrastructure facilities of our economy. This fund is, of course, guaranteed by the State, always provided. And we have to look at what objects do we use these tools? Investment was a priority, and the primary focus in the initial phase was on attracting foreign investment, requiring the adoption of relevant laws and creating an enabling climate. We created it. Regulatory and legal framework for this. As a result, the amount of foreign direct investment that has been made per capita in Kazakhstan is the leader in the CIS. In general, $40 billion of foreign direct investment not guaranteed by the State was attracted during the period of independence. At the same time, domestic investment in capital over the period amounted to some $70 billion. I mean, 110 billion over the years. If you look at our population parity, Ukraine, you have to multiply by 3.5 times. Kazakhstan was awarded an investment-level credit rating to the first of the CIS. At the turn of the millennium, we have entered a new stage in our development. During this period, the economic downturn was finally halted, and steady economic growth began. Kazakhstan, among the first in the CIS, was recognized by the European Union and the United States as a market economy country. In 2003, GDP exceeded 1991. Although this is a comparison, since I, like many of you, have worked well in Soviet times too, is not right with the period of the Soviet Union's economy to compare anything because there was a double account. One tractor could have been sold twice, three times. One iron could also be sold. So, what's the volume, 91st? That's a completely different question, you know? [[Applause]] Well, we outdid it, too, okay, not bad. According to international experts this year, Kazakhstan's GDP exceeded the total domestic gross product of seven States: 4 in Central Asia, the Caucasus, combined. Over the past 7 years, the average annual growth rate was 9-10 per cent, foreign trade had increased 4 times, per capita GDP had increased 3 times, from $1,100 in 1999, 3,450 per person this year, Kazakhstan's 2006 budget had already been adopted, and GDP per capita would be $4,150. If the purchasing power parity is to believe that this is roughly twice as much as it is to be increased. The revenue of the State budget has increased 2.6 times, the production of industrial products has increased, and investment has remained high. The budget deficit does not exceed 1 per cent of GDP, and the inflation rate has been below 7 per cent in recent years. This year, we have paid salaries to budget workers, teachers, doctors, cultural workers, social security workers, as well as to all civil servants by 32 per cent. A further increase of 30 per cent on average is planned. Such an increase is in line with the growth of real wages in the private sector of the economy and is one of the measures to combat corruption. I know you're having an argument, too. I believe that if we want to fight corruption effectively, public servants have to pay for it to be normal. [[Applause]] The minimum pension, along with the basic pension we added this year, is $70. The average pension amount is over $95, the average salary for Kazakhstan is $245. Since 2006, there has been an increase in the benefit for low-income families, 50-dollar scholarships for students, and twice as many students for secondary vocational education. This has, of course, enabled the economy to do so, otherwise it would not be possible to do so. Kazakhstan's fuel and energy development programme should enable us to reach an oil production level of up to 150 million tons per year in 2015, to enter the ten largest oil producers, and by this time we expect gas production to be 60 or 80 billion cubic metres. On the basis of our success in the country, there is a further, completely new approach to economic development. We have implemented, developed and implemented a number of strategic programmes. In particular, an industrial innovation strategy to divert Kazakhstan from its commodity focus. From next year, all oil revenues and revenues will be allocated to the Special National Petroleum Fund, which already has six billion. The State will work as if we don't have these revenues from the oil and gas complex. To this end, an industrial innovation programme has been developed up to 2015. Targeted at the creation of a service technology model, which will generate 3.5 growth in the economy in 2 2015. A Development Bank has been specifically established to implement this plan. Because second-level banks cannot afford long money today. The Development Bank, established in Kazakhstan, provides an industrial development strategy and long-term loans. An investment fund had been established and an export credit investment insurance corporation had been set up. To date, the total capitalization of these funds is $1 billion. As the first result in the past year, 395 projects worth nearly $2 billion will be implemented in the manufacturing industry from all sources. A total of almost 18,000 jobs will be created. We're not all. We doubt the reality, because these plans are funded by the staff. The challenge is to prepare the country for WTO accession. It's not just that. These enterprises should produce only competitive products. The Development Bank, the Investment Fund inserts 30-40 per cent of investment and invites the portfolio investor together to produce and transfer goods to the management of the foreign company, under its brand, to the international market. The new housing programme is based on the development of mortgage lending of housing savings. At the mortgage, however, we have reduced the initial contribution to 10 per cent. The mortgage period was increased to 20 years. Moreover, if the rate exceeds 9-10 per cent, the increase of the State is restored by the National Bank. And the second. This is for those who, for example, have $700 in family income, may claim such housing. The State allocated a billion dollars, under its control distributed all the areas, first built the housing and then invited him to the mortgage, paid 10 percent of the value, 90 percent of the bank loaned him, and all the money returned because he bought the apartment, and that apartment was a guarantee for the future. That's one option. Option two. We have set up a housing savings state bank with budgetary resources. Here a person has to accumulate 25 per cent for three years, for example, if I need a million dollars to buy an apartment or repair a capital or build a house, he hoards 25 per cent, that is, 250,000, and the State gives him $750,000 immediately for 25 years without interest. These are for the less-paid, especially the young families by law, then the public servants, and then the whole country. And I want to report to you that this year alone, 1,600 apartments will be built in public housing, 12,000 apartments in mortgage loans. The total amount of housing construction in the country in the first year of the programme for 10 months of this year exceeded the planned amount of 3 million square metres for the current year, 1.8 times that of last year. In total, 30,000 apartments are in operation only in this system. Again. multiply by 3.5 to make it more clear. In order to develop agriculture, we are ready again to join the WTO, this is the most painful, I think, unit of both you and us, because there is a risk that goods of better quality, good packaging and price, and our village and processing can become. In 2004, we developed a special programme, the Village, and sent $1 billion out of the budget. And today, in three years, if you drive around Kazakhstan, our village is on its feet. This high-production technology has never been purchased by agriculture, even in Soviet times, by American and German food harvesters and so on. That is, the load on one combine fell below the rule we talked about during the Soviet period. The agricultural land is private. Every year, Kazakhstan collects the same billion poodles this year, too, I don't know how they do it, although I, as President of the Council of Ministers, both in the sower and in the cleaning room like all of us students, sent everyone there. [[Applause]] Let them, so to speak, do it, I think people will do it. We're up. You represent, one dollar sent by the State has brought $5. In fact, over the past three years, $5 billion has been paid to the village. with all private sources. We're subsidizing 40 percent of the fertilizers, we're subsidizing herbicides, pesticides, we're cutting 40 percent, we're selling tribal cattle at a reduced price to give a tribe high-quality productive. Scott. We're doing our traditional farming on the watery land. All of it. Direct production is not to be reached by the State. Indirectly. The second rural development programme is roads, drinking water, schools, hospitals. We have restored hundreds of polyclinics in agriculture, identified promising, not promising villages. They said, "We can't build anything here in 10-20 houses. Let us take the children to boarding school, and the hospitals will be there.” So that's interesting. If that's what you're interested in, we're willing to hand everyone over to put the reality of Ukrainian life. This crucial factor in the modernization of Kazakhstan is, in fact, training. The reform of the education system is continuing with a view to bringing it to the level of world standards. Since this year, we are going to 12-year-olds, like in the seven worlds, U.S.I.s are working on a bachelor's degree system and... Ph.D. We're moving on from next year. Since this year, 3,000 youth will be assigned to the State programme. The future of the prestigious universities of the world. We have already returned 1,500 young people who work in all ministries and departments. Our uncles are invited by the best foreign professors, and the money is allocated for this. In 2005, education expenditure rose by a quarter compared to the previous year, reaching almost 4 per cent of the gross domestic product. Students in VUZ are only admitted by computer tests, no teacher, no contact. We've been doing this for years. You're about to have an experiment, aren't you? It's better to take our system and study it and do it. We've checked, checked. Implementation. The priorities will allow Kazakhstan to be one of the 50 most competitive States in the world in the second decade, which is already ranked 61st in the World Economic Forum in the world competitiveness rating. We dream of 50, ahead of all CIS countries. Continued modernization contributes to the creation of a centre for attracting investment, technology, knowledge and skilled personnel. We have now passed all the laws to make the city of Almaty the financial centre of the region. And we very much hope, of course, for Ukraine, for your companies, for the banks that will be categorized there, and for Kazakhstan's large investments. Kazakhstan itself exported $8.6 billion outside its own country last year. At the same time, we have built a new capital, the modern city of Astana. A second major city, Akmolensk, was established in 1998, and more than 600,000 people are now living in the city. Which one of you has been, I've seen, I've been watching, really, Kiev has changed to the best of times lately, especially in the evening. And I look forward to it with you. [[Applause]] Of course, we must all strive for the values of democracy, to which you have been particularly committed recently, which are at the heart of the entire civilized world. However, frankly, I am a proponent of the formula, first economic reform and then political reform. That is what has led us to success. [[Applause]] And the experience of our country has shown that such an approach justifies itself, that our country has the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens under the Constitution. Yesterday in the United States, a special conference was held in Gosdoma on the theme “The Third Way to Reform Nazarbaeva”, called. During the 10 years since the adoption of the new Constitution, all conditions have been created for the development of the most important Institute of Democracy of Parliamentarianism. In time, the professional bicameral parliament has successfully been tested, ensuring the representation of a variety of interests. And we were the first ones in Central Asia to go to this, and the others followed us. Over the years, our Constitution has not turned any political disagreement into a crisis. All disputes are resolved through constitutional procedures. Thus, there has been an effective system of joint work between the President, Parliament and Government, through which the country is successfully developing, which confirms the wisdom of the Ukrainian people's proverb: “There is a cluster working, there is a corner.” [[Applause]] There is freedom of speech in the country, there are about five thousand governmental organizations in operation, and they will not be okay, and the State fully supports their development. The State is engaged in an equal dialogue with IGO, including through a civil forum. Kazakhstan is now entering a new phase of political modernization. I propose the National Programme for Democratic Reforms 2006-2011, in a phased, evolutionary manner. In a multinational Kazakh society, no reform would be possible without the continued trust and friendship of peoples among themselves. We have a peaceful population of 130 nationalities, over 3,000 religious groups representing 40 religions. There is a unique public institution, the Assembly of the Peoples of Kazakhstan, which marks its decade this year. This is inter-ethnic interaction and harmony. At the initiative of Kazakhstan, the first World Traditional Religions Assembly was held in Astana in 2003, which opened new prospects for interfaith cooperation. Next year, we are planning to hold a second summit of leaders of the world's traditional religions. It was the credibility that made it possible for Kazakhstan to be the only place on the planet where such meetings could be held. When 18 leaders of the world’s religions gathered, the main question was: Who should be elected president? I was the most neutral figure, I presided. And everyone said that God alone, all of us going in different ways and interreligious conflicts on earth shouldn't be. I think it's a very good postulate for today's world. [[Applause]] The distinguished deputies, as you know, Kazakhstan has submitted and has the ambition to preside over the OSCE in 2009. We are grateful for Ukraine's support for this initiative. We have to do something about it, of course. Therefore, my programme “Democratization” until 2011. This is a great exam for Kazakhstan, and we hope for your support. I would like to emphasize this: the enormous potential for the development of Kazakhstan-Ukraine cooperation lies in the emerging Single Economic Area of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine. Since I'm the initiator of this case again, I want to stop a little bit. The main advantage of the Single Economic Area is that it will bring together four States, which account for 90 per cent of the GDP of the CIS countries. This is what will help to bring trade between our countries to a new level. This organization has every opportunity to become a strong and authoritative economic entity that benefits all of us. The minimum degree of integration - I don't know how carefully you read this document, I hear reasoning, I assure you, independence for Kazakhstan - question number one. And we are not going to give up anything like you, but the minimum degree of integration of the participant is determined by the formation of a free trade zone first. The programme is a reflection of the principles of economic regulation based on the consolidation of the customs territories of the participating countries. Next. Ensure the free movement of goods, services, capital, labour, i.e. the common market. Further on, as far as we can see, I do not know that the implementation of an agreed tax, monetary, monetary, monetary policy is already an economic union of the European type. I would like to stress in particular that the EP is in no way aimed at limiting the political sovereignty of States parties, and I have said what our opinion is. The concept of the European Union – an integration model similar to that of the European Union – is fully in line with the current realities of the world economy and fits into the context of the process of globalization of economic ties. I am sure that such integration will only strengthen the economies of our countries. Once again, the Ukrainian people’s proverb reads: “Where is the union, there. ” [[Applause]] Much remains to be done in the full implementation of the EEP. I therefore call on you to support the EEP efforts aimed at mutually beneficial economic cooperation between our countries and the prosperity of our peoples. This will enable us to increase trade between our countries. How are we gonna get around a neighbor who's downtown? Only through the EP. [[Applause]] Dear friends, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, despite the difficulties of those years, we have made contact fairly quickly in almost all areas. Today, relations between Kazakhstan and Ukraine are rapidly developing in an atmosphere of understanding and trust. The positions of the two countries on most of the issues of regional and international policy coincide. This is supported by positive developments in contacts at the summit and other levels, both bilaterally and multilaterally. My current visit to your country at the invitation of the President of Ukraine is the continuation of the dialogue with President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, which began in Astana in August in Kazani. The main agreements reached during our meetings are reflected in Kazakhstan's cooperation plan 2005-7, the road map. This document aims to strengthen cooperation in the transport sector, agri-industrial complex, aerospace activities, fuel and energy industries. Bilateral defence cooperation, intergovernmental agreements in military and technical cooperation are being actively developed, and our cooperation in this area will be adopted and should be greatly enhanced. A good tradition of mutual cultural cooperation will continue. The document signed during this visit between the Eurasian National University of Gumilev in Astana and the Kiev University of Taras Shevchenko will enable our scientists and students to jointly develop the scientific and technical potential of the two countries. Spiritual ties have been strengthened among our peoples. Joint cultural activities are held regularly. You know that there is a large Ukrainian diaspora in Kazakhstan, over 450,000 people. Ukrainians in Kazakhstan are third in number after Kazakhs and Russian. We have a city that bears the name of the Great Ukrainian Cobzar Shevchenko. 23 Ukrainian nationals. cultural centres. [[Applause]] The delegation was in Shevchenko, I think this summer, and saw the relationship between Kazakhstan and Taras Grigorovich. A weekly newspaper in the Ukrainian language “Ukrainian News”, which is funded by the state budget, is published. [[Applause]] Television shows in Ukrainian, Ukrainian Sunday schools, creative groups, are in operation. The Ukrainian Association for the Revival and Development of Ukrainian Language and Culture, National Traditions and Customs in Kazakhstan is engaged in fruitful activities. I think that in order to deepen the ties between our countries, we could spend Ukraine's year in Kazakhstan and vice versa. Literally before my visit to Ukraine, we had the honour to receive from Astana the Chairman of the Supreme Council Vladimir Mihajlovich Lithuania. The interaction between the legislative spheres of the two countries on a wide range of issues allows optimism to see the future of our relations. I am pleased to note that trade and economic cooperation has increased. Last year, the trade between Kazakhstan and Ukraine amounted to a billion dollars, and we continue to increase it. Our countries are emerging from a qualitatively new level of cooperation, characterized by post-industrial high-tech cooperation. The creation of the EP would remove all barriers to further trade between our countries. This year the Embassy of Ukraine in Kazakhstan, the Consulate General of Ukraine in Almaty, delivered over 10,000 medals “60 years of liberation from fascist invaders of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan who took part in hostilities in Ukraine during the Great Homeland War. We highly appreciate the care of our veterans, especially the very touch that the monument to the 67 Kazakhs who died in the battles on the right side of Dnieper, including the grandson of the famous Achim Ajambula, was opened in Synelikova. Dear friends, I would like to thank you all sincerely for your efforts to strengthen not only inter-parliamentary cooperation but also the full range of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Ukraine. I am grateful for your good feelings for our people and for the country that I feel on this visit. I am confident that the electorates of the great Ukrainian people will continue to make a valuable contribution to the strengthening of relations between our countries. In your face I wish the well-being, the prosperity of all the brotherly Ukrainian people, and this is our sincere desire. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u31	Mr. President! Allow me to express my sincere thanks for the deep and convincing presentation and to wish you fruitful success and close cooperation among our nations, among our peoples. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. We'll continue our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u32	Please respond with dissatisfaction to Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. On October 17, 2005, I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Yehanurov, Yuri Ivanovich, about the problems of foreign investors in Ukraine, namely, one of the biggest investment projects in Ukraine, the "Leoney" concert. Which, by the way, built a very large business in Ukraine in the district of Strysk, in Lviv. For information. I want to remind you that the company “Leone” has invested 150 million dollars and created 3,000 jobs. I would like to stress, 3,000 jobs where our citizens work, who were potential immigrants in Portugal, Spain, Poland, in other countries. And here's the problem with the payment of import duties and VAT, which makes Ukraine's production unsuspecting. We addressed this problem to Yuri Ivanovich and suggested that we set up a working group of commissions that could deal with some proposals and resolve the issue. Unfortunately, the government has made the right answer that I'm going to read to you, and I think it's just a discount. We consider it possible to go back to the issues raised by foreign investors, exporting producers, including Leoni. And they suggest that government officials submit a bill and appropriate technical and economic justifications. Dear friends! After this formal government subscription, we have a number of questions. And that's what's important. Is it not the task of the government to produce the right concept to provide equal conditions for all foreign investors working in Ukraine and thus create preconditions for the arrival of potential foreign investors to create millions of new jobs in Ukraine? So, dear colleagues, please consider my statement a repeat request to the government of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u34	Please, just a minute, the school will finish its speech. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Of course, first of all, I still have more time. It's different. I don't think it's necessary to give a speech. It should have been easy or not to give a word to a national MP, or I should not have been interrupted. Of course, Parliament must and should pay respect to the president of another state, but of course we are accustomed to disrespecting the MPs, but it is very often later observed that the people do not respect the national MPs. First of all, I'd like the people's deputies to respect Parliament's leadership, and everything will be fine. Then the people may well begin. I would like to point out that the request given to me by these beautiful representatives of today’s Cabinet clearly confirms that Ukraine has given, given and will always give its territory away. So I encourage all countries that want to get a piece of Ukrainian territory, go to the present Kabmin, there are beautiful good people living there, who don't care about Dnistrovska in the Ukrainian Republic of GAES. Give it back. Good Moldovan friends, neighbors, were asked. Well, we've got to get them. We have to help them. They don't have hydropower plants, and we do. So I would like to point out that I am not satisfied as a national MP with that request, its level, its content. I don't know how Stanislaw Staszewski put his signature under a document stating that the option of delimiting the border with the return of Dniestrów's GAES, part of the Dniestrovski AES object, is impossible or not possible. So why do we need the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Why do we need a Deputy Prime Minister, First Vice Prime Minister, if they find out the fact. The Moldovans have come to take it away, it means justice. With all due respect, good state, good people living, good wine doing there, all right. But why should we give up our territory for this? On what grounds? All legal acts forming the Autonomous Republic of Moldova and transferring a particular territory to us are equivalent. When they betray themselves. If one is unreal, the other will also appear unreal. Therefore, I would very much like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister's Office to read carefully the requests and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u36	Yes, both the second part or the action is finished on Friday. Now the third one. Factions of BUT and “the only Ukraine” ask for breaks. Please, Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u37	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Valentin Zubov, the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues! In connection with the latest scandalous developments in our Hall, i.e. the Parliament associated with the unwarranted salaries of government officials, some policies, including our colleagues, are allowing themselves to face a manifestly unfriendly attack on the former leader of our faction, the leader of our Party, Vladimirovna Timoshenko, in trying to link this problem to her name. In addition, they do -- I reiterate -- very and very inappropriately. Here today, Mr. Stoyan repeated what he said yesterday, accusing the Government of Yulia Timoshenko of the fact that such salaries lie on her conscience. But first, I would like to say that Mr. Stoyan should be more restrained in his statements, as it is well known that law enforcement authorities still have very serious attention to his role as chairman of the trade union. Secondly, and I would like to stress in particular that I understand that the Government is, again, a dirty case, but not as much as some policies allow, accusing Yulia Timoshenko of unduly high wages. Yes, indeed, the Government of Julia Timoshenko has raised wages, but to whom? Teachers, medics, academics, other representatives of budget staff. In addition, it raised the minimum wage, pensions and so on. This was indeed done by the Government of Yulia Timoshenko. An increase in the salaries of government officials was initiated by former President Kuchma and continued by former Prime Minister Janukovic. For what purpose? It's a perfectly normal goal, from their point of view. Because the high salaries of government officials are administrative resources in effect. Because this is where the same scheme worked -- who pays, who orders music. And I don't like it very much when they speak ill of the government of Yulia Timoshenko. We, distinguished colleagues, have become 5 million less than Kuchma's reforms, and one Government, I stress, one single Government, the Government of Yulia Timoshenko has increased assistance to young mothers 10 times. From 800 bucks to 8 grand. Why doesn't anyone in this room talk about it? You will ask these young mothers about the government of Yulia Timoshenko and you will understand. The worst part is that those reforms, social reforms, the very significant reforms of the Government of Yulia Timoshenko have been halted due to its unjustified resignation. Noah is convinced that after March 2006, it will bring the matter to an end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u38	Two more factions, the “Ukraine” region, the Social Democrats, and they also ask for breaks and want to speak. [[United]] Gennady Samofal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u39	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I have the mandate to declare a parliamentary appeal regarding the establishment of territorial constituencies to Mr. Davidovich, Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission. In accordance with article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies, we propose to provide an answer regarding the violation of the requirements of existing legislation on the establishment of territorial constituencies. According to available information, for example, a letter to the CEC dated 26.10.05 from the Donetsk Regional Council reduces the number of territorial constituencies in this area. This position of the CEC does not meet the law and will reduce the number of territorial constituencies not only in Donetsk but also in a number of other areas. For example: In the Donetsk region there will be 17 instead of 23 districts in previous elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 8 instead of 10 in the Lugansk region, 10 instead of 12. Indeed, the establishment of territorial constituencies is within the competence of the CEC. However, in accordance with the requirements of article 18, paragraph 2, of the law, the districts are established, firstly, taking into account the administrative and territorial arrangements of the area, secondly, with approximately equal numbers of polling stations and thirdly, on the basis of the number of polling stations formed during the previous presidential elections. Thus, this power of the Central Electoral Commission is limited to the stated requirements of the law. Today, the CEC is expected to increase the burden, particularly in the Donetsk region, to 217,000 voters per district, and in the Lviv region, to 146,000 voters per district by creating additional constituencies. The situation is similar in other regions where a reduction in the number of territorial electoral commissions is planned. Consequently, through a rather substantial difference in the burden on one district election commission, the inhabitants of one territorial and electoral district will be in a privileged position to electorate, to the inhabitants of the Second Territorial and Electoral District with a greater burden, in violation of article 24 and 64 of the Constitution of Ukraine and section 8 of the Second Law on the Election of Peoples'Deputies on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Part five of the third article of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of People's Deputies is violated regarding the equal and non-forced treatment of CECs to parties. Such an approach by the CEC will result in the deprivation of many local partnerships of certain rights under the law, for example, the right of signature to represent candidates on a local electoral commission will be restricted to regional partnerships in connection with the additional integration of several areas, cities and not district partnerships. We ask, in view of the foregoing, not to allow for the possibility of professional negligence or abuse of power by the members of the CEC and to put the question on the agenda of a meeting of the Commission on the revision of the principle of territorial education.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u40	And that's the right thing to do. Yes, and the third act is over. Now the last one, the fourth one: replicas. Please mention Kendzior's last name. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u41	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. In connection with the speech of the leader of the Communists, I would like to say that, indeed, 45 years ago, while in the ranks of the army, I seized two tanks, three armoured carriers and a “warring red flag”. They're still safe in my crash, I'm putting them down, they're in combat. Only the problem with the battle red flag is that it is bitten by the mouse. You all understand the absurdity and schizophrenicity of the statement of the former cosmopolitan “string”. They all think, thieves and bandits, that if they steal, when they commit crimes, everyone else should do the same. I'm calm because I'm convinced I'll live when the leaders of the Fascist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, Simonenko, and we're done. The replica. Simonenko microphone, please. And Stoyan, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u43	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, you are witnessing how the representatives of the Fascists, the true supporters of the Fascists, those who, in the years of the war on 30 June, with the salt in Lviv, met them, who cut out more than nine thousand Jews in one night, who participated in the Holocaust because they shot at Babi Yaru people. Just got shot in here! Whoever inherited it in Slovakia, in Yugoslavia, who did ethnic cleansing by killing Poles, these are the representatives, the so-called national independence fighters, who are now servants of the same interests of the United States of America, and they are naturally doing so. The fact that many of them, if they discovered the archives of the Russian intelligence services, were just whistleblowers, of course they were the ones who set up each other, handing over national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u44	Yes, please, Alexander Stoyan, mentioned his name. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u45	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukraine Party. Dear colleague, who has spoken, called my last name, I have no claim to Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko as a man as a charming woman, I have no claim to her as to the Prime Minister absolutely, it is good that she has made a great salary to herself, the President, the Minister, but why did not the honourable Julia Volodymyrna introduce a single tariff network where new salaries were anticipated to the teacher, the doctor, the cultural worker? Why was the minimum wage of as much as 352 bracelets on Maidan promised that the minimum wage would be equal to the minimum wage? Last one. Whoever says I'm dealing with the D.A.'s office about property, I've already filed a case against one of the union chiefs from the Fatherland faction, and I'm going to show that this is a lie and slander, and I'm going to sue another who called my last name yesterday, and I'm going to prove that there's nothing legal. It's just slander and lies. So once again, what the government did was wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u46	Yes, we have completed our statements, requests, and all that has to do with this. Let us now consider the issues related to the reports of the interim commission of inquiry. You and I have made decisions, fellow believers, and virtually every Friday we will listen to the reports of the committees because we have about five dozen. Today, it is suggested that we listen to the reports of the three committees. So let's say five minutes for the report and five minutes for the answer to the questions. I invite the head of the committee on matters to report. a commission of inquiry to determine the reasons for the financial crisis of the Agrobusiness Shareholder Bank “Ukraine” and to verify compliance with the law in the course of its liquidation. Victor Mikolaiovich King, please. To prepare Igor Rafailovich to Yukhnovsky after the next commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u47	Thank you. Honourable National MPs, distinguished listeners, the Temporary Investigation Commission to determine the reasons for the financial crisis of the Bank “Ukraine” and the verification of the legality of its liquidation, established in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 July 2002, practically continued the work of the previous commission, which was created by the Supreme Council of the previous call. Thus, the liquidation of the Bank “Ukraine”, the largest bank in Ukraine that has served, is reflected in these figures: more than 200,000 legal and almost 1.5 million natural persons are in the hands of its bankruptcy for the first time, under constant control, direct control of the Supreme Council. The work of the interim commission of inquiry can be divided into several stages. The first to attract the attention of society is to find out the reasons that led to the financial crisis, to establish and to bring the responsibility of the people involved. The second step is to monitor the bankruptcy and recovery of debts and to prevent the further theft of the Bank of Ukraine. I'm not going to bore you with big numbers, but I'm going to say that there were a lot of official, unofficial meetings during the commission's work. These meetings were held with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney-General's Office, the Security Service, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Head of the Master's Court of Ukraine, the bank managers were informed by the Presidents of Ukraine in their time. Information on the work of the commission was heard at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in February 2003, and in January of this year, the National Deputies were given written information about the work of the Commission because there was no opportunity to speak. In addition, three laws, four decrees of the Supreme Council, were passed on the initiative of the commission and the deputies of the Supreme Council. At the time of the Supreme Council’s consideration, there is still one law and one decree of the Supreme Council. When law enforcement authorities were involved, it was possible to detect and prevent a significant number of crimes. Thus, a number of criminal cases have been committed by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the abuse of banking legislation by lenders and bank officials. On five criminal cases, the courts handed down sentences. A total of 2.7 million dollars and 16 million dollars have been arrested in the course of the pretrial investigation. Internal Affairs carried out 2,450 trials, resulting in 375 criminal cases. In addition, seven frauds involving financial resources, 27 crimes involving possession, property, or possession of property have been identified. The damage to criminal matters amounted to 500 million dollars. Regrettably, 1/10, only 60 million. Three hundred and thirty-seven persons have been brought to criminal responsibility, 110 of whom are members of the central bank office and its regional offices. To be implemented by the National Executive Service, there are implementing documents for another 77.5 million dollars, $5 million and 13,000 euros. But actually, once again, the modest amount is 7 million 235 thousand. Work on the bank’s return was also done with mutual interests. This results in 42 million dollars and 18 million dollars. Thanks to close cooperation with the bank’s liquidator, with the MPs, listen to these figures, count with the creditors of the first queue, and these are all natural persons, these are 47104 individuals and 600 legal persons, totalling over 200 million dollars. Thanks to the commission’s activities, you, the national deputies, have been unable to steal the bank’s property. It's about one thousand rooms. And as a result, you have to think about these numbers, with the National Bank and with the state, over 500 million dollars. Thus, the hard work was able to account for the first and second row of creditors of the bank “Ukraine” without the inclusion of the budget. Today, the third line is open to all legal persons. Thanks to your support, we have passed a separate law, and from this turn we have reduced by 10,000 legal persons. That's almost 50 million dollars. These are the ones you supported, the least protected legal persons. They were rural social organizations, trade unions, gardeners, and others, you remember that well. Dear colleagues, listen up! I want to emphasize that for the first time in the liquidation of the bank, there's a return on the settlement of the funds with the tabs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u48	Let me finish. Finish it, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u49	For the first time, when the bank is cleared, the cost of settlement is almost 50 percent, while the world's practical rate is 10-13 percent. Well, I don't want to say that this has put an end to negative phenomena such as mistrust in the banking system, which has been used by other banks – the “Slovenian” bank. [[no time]] However, my distinguished listeners and MPs, despite such a very fruitful job, today I can say that we still owe our investors a bank to almost 890 million dollars, and we can pay back these costs because it's a situation where the Bank of Ukraine owes 760 million dollars for the body loan, and the percentage is 1 billion 400. [[Listen to me!]] When the commission was working, who was responsible for the bank, we realized that this billion 400 owed to 2,600 debtors. And of these 2,600, your honor, think about it, 50 of the biggest debtors are responsible for 1 billion 200. I mean, we're focusing on what our commission doesn't need to do number, tens of thousands of tests. You're going to have to take 50 to the limit. The view and then we'll return these deposits. How can this be done? Ladies and gentlemen, the political situation in the state has changed, and the commission has finally received official lists of the largest 150 debtors of the bank. That's what we said. But another situation has arisen that we cannot publish because there is no money for it. So, at the request of the members of the commission, we have brought to your attention, honourable deputies, draft Decree No.8415, which will consider permission, the distribution of the media's lists of these top debtors. If you do, we can do it. I can see that there's not much time, but I'd like to say the following. I told you earlier that the bank had been robbed, but to this day we are also showing the facts when there are still those who want to steal. For example, there is only one example. Chernigiv district. In its time, the Interagrosystem took over one and a half million euros and more than $1 million into the bank. Then this firm's savvy business broke down, re-registered it back at the Interagrosystem Corporation, where he's the director and he's using this money and he won't return it. The same system as Naftaka and others. That's why we, the national MPs, have turned to the new Attorney General again and again, to the new authority to get back to this issue, and the law enforcement system has tested these facts in a new way. I hope they'll be published to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u51	And I'd like to thank you. Can I say it already? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u52	Then you'll thank me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u53	Thank the Supreme Council, thank the deputies for. to the members of the committee that. Zochchenko, Zagreva, Shevchuk, Pecklusenko, bank liquidator who works closely. And, Your Honor, for your information. The National Bank decided to continue the work of the liquidation commission for another 1 year. So I think it's logical for our commission to keep track of these issues until the very end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u54	Yeah, well, give me three minutes to ask. Sign up. Please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u55	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please pass the word to Yuri Petrovich Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u56	Turn on Solomon’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u57	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, could you point out who or what led to the collapse of such a huge bank? And it's either a specific person, or a system that has formed, a socio-economic one, maybe a political one, and which has been the basis for artificially bankrupting such a huge bank, and it has struck both a small Ukrainian citizen and a huge number of businesses that have used this bank. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. And that's the sharpest question. I think there's a lot of answers when we publish these lists of the biggest 150 debtors. You know, it's an official list that we've been given. You'll see companies, you'll know who's behind them, which they haven't even given up yet. But in answer to your particular question, I would like you to pay attention to the ruling of 20.02.2003, where we clearly stated in the first paragraph that this is theft, this is uncontrolledness, this is a weak biased action by law enforcement agencies and a waiver to issue loans, to issue everything. I mean, they stole the bank. And, I understand, you want to name your family. But all families are named, reverend. I'm going to let myself say that some of them are sitting in the hall. Some of them are sitting in other places, I called you. Some of them went on the run, and some of them moved into another branch of power into the executioner. These are the realities of today’s life. And that's true. I'm telling you honestly, looking into your eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u59	Please, Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u60	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozska oblast. I, too, would like to thank you for your work on the commission. It was because of your work that the Commission did what it was able to do. But we do well to understand that what is done is not enough. I absolutely share the opinion of my previous colleague, and we need to set up points. Your political friends said, "The prison gangs," and you say they're sitting everywhere, in this room, in the government, but not in prisons. Therefore, our task as members of the commission is legally illegal for everyone in the country to know who has robbed the Bank of Ukraine, whether it is our colleague or a member of the Government. The country must know its anti-hero. And in order for these things to not happen again, we need to deal more with problems, less with political speculation here, in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u61	Thank you. I fully share your point of view, more who knows me personally, who knows about my work, that I have a law at my head. And it's personal responsibility, not political views. And I call things my names and I can appeal to them when they're documented. And where the commission of inquiry can name it, you remember those names, and where the documents are in the prosecutor's office, then my respected colleagues need to say the last word, the prosecutor's office and the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u62	Well, Zarubinsky's still asking, he wanted very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u63	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, I have to say that there is a lack of information among the investors of the Bank “Ukraine” precisely about the procedure for making claims on the payment of their savings. And by the way, there's an impossibility of a large number of even those who have made such claims to control their fate. So there's actually no feedback from the anonymity of this process. And this, by the way, has caused a lot of our voters to talk about this to members of the People's Party faction. Does the commission have any, I understand it's not your jurisdiction, but do you know whether the commission has specific proposals to solve this issue? Or could it be similar, you know, to try to calm down a situation where for a huge number of citizens, the bankruptcy process that caused the impossible to do something about it will not release them from their own savings at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u64	Thank you for asking, it's relevant. What is more, for instance, this option: Not the legitimacy and mystery of these processes we have committed in our own time to the Supreme Council's decree to print the bank's liquidator monthly, which is the National Bank's representative, the results of the move and all. And this happened in the first phase, remember, and then there was talk that our commission was already being closed down and that went out there. So we return to you the decree on publicity, publication of lists, reporting, and other questions with them if we get it. And if you support it, we'll publish these lists. I think that's the first step in answering your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u65	Thank you. I think we don't need sponsors here to make decisions, we have a newspaper called Voice of Ukraine, and it publishes lists, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u66	That's what we wrote in the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u67	Thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Yes. We'll listen to the next commission. Report of the Temporary Special Commission on the Future. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. Please report for 5 minutes, 5 answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! A temporary special commission of the Supreme Council for the future was created by the Supreme Council’s decree of April 3, 2003. The composition of the Temporary Special Commission was made up of 12 deputies. These included the deputies of all factions who were then in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provided, as it were, an impartial consideration of the main issues of the State’s strategy. The expansion took place in such a way that the materials of the scientific and practical conference for the adoption of the innovative model for Ukraine's development were analysed, which was published under Galchinsky. A round tables of the Ukrainian Centre for Economic and Political Research, known as Pozumkov, were conducted. The expansion of the work was that round tables were moved, including in non-traditional energy, three round tables, in the mineral base of Ukraine, one round table, in investment policy, two round tables and in Ukraine's development strategy. A survey of five universities in Kiev was also conducted to see how the work of the commission was seen by the public. As a result, the development orientation of the country was recognised as the main one in 26 percent, the environmental orientation of 19 percent, the social orientation of 18th, the development of science, education and innovation technologies, 16 percent, the development of agriculture, 10th, and the information society, 10 percent. Based on these results, the work “Strategic of Ukraine’s Development” was published, which was common among all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this development strategy, the main goal was to improve the quality of life for everyone now and for generations to come. I must point out that this basic objective is the main objective of the future parliament of all European countries. The criteria for achieving this goal have been recognized, which corresponded to the opinions of the various people surveyed: the development of human capital, the prudent, rational and high-quality use of natural resources, the effective protection of the natural environment, the high and stable level of economic growth, the development of a knowledge society, the projected, reliable and sufficient energy conservation of the country, the provision of the country and the entry into European society and Ukraine's membership in the EU. The most important factor in defining these criteria was that the strategy defined indicators that could be used to monitor these criteria. As a result, some theoretical work was also done regarding unity, regularity. Society. This work was also given to the members of the Supreme Council. As a result, we have found that there are two of the most important tasks facing Ukraine, and this should be the central task of all the governments that are in Ukraine, this is the specificity of Ukraine, which has a high potential for education and higher scientific potential, namely: Ukraine is heading towards an economic system of knowledge. And the second. The state is creating a middle class as the main component of this nation’s population. As a result of the second question, work was done on the purchasing power of wages and the middle class in Ukraine, which was published in the “Government courier” and in the “Dark of the Week” and which generated a very lively interest. I want to talk about the concrete steps that a temporary special commission is working towards creating a knowledge society. And now, this year, an academic system is being created for the enormous power of the 10 gigabit signal in one second: Donetsk-Harkov-Kiev-Livov-Rava Russia and the connection with the European system "Jiant". This will enable us to enter the European information system and thus build a knowledge society in practice. This is the creation of a super-powerful computer system of clusters in Kiev, in Lviv and in Kharkiv on the 502-nuclear 64-grade processors with a 10-terrabbit information capacity and the inclusion in the European computing system of Greet together with other countries of the world. Specific steps have also been taken to modernize science schools. We have achieved that in 2004 40 million were allocated in the budget. December, 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u69	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u70	In 2005, $40 million was allocated to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDAF). A total of 70 million are planned for 2006 and 70 million are planned for 2006. That's right. There's going to be an upgrade to the science school labs. And so if we go back to the Supreme Council Regulation of 3 April 2003, which referred to the task of preparing for consideration by the Supreme Council for future forecasts and plans, for the recognition of the state's technological and innovative development, for the development of factors and models for future development, and for the analysis of Ukraine's economic and social development programmes, for the maintenance of relations with parliaments and scientific organizations in all countries of the world, I must say that this commission has only been partially carried out, the commission is an inter-branch commission. To that end, it must continue in the next Parliament. In order to do so, it is necessary to provide for an additional 300,000 dollars in the expenditure of the Supreme Council for 2006 to provide for the work of such a commission. Since this is an inter-branch commission, we believe that the head of the commission should be the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And as far as this committee is concerned, I would like to ask the Supreme Council to continue its work until the end of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u71	Thank you. Sign up for questions if you have. Yes, please, four minutes, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Igor Raphaelovich, you understand very well that the future itself is determined by the world view of man and certain political powers and their views. You've made a vision of the future in the world of market transformations, market economy and expansion, so-called capitalist society. A society in which 10% of the population has almost everything is a golden billion of humanity, and 90% of the rest of the world's population is nothing but poverty and war. Please tell me, why are you again today and again justifying the development of a society that has exhausted itself finally and will finally be rejected by all mankind on the brink of history? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u73	And it's just, just by analyzing everything, our development and the development of the world, that we've identified two central directions: it's creating a knowledge society, we have enough scientific and educational power to do that, and it's creating a middle class. Generally speaking, there are now two stable social positions: many poor, few middle - class, and, so - called, oligarch tails. This is the first stable condition. We have it, it's in Russia now. And the second steady state. Few are poor, few are rich, and many are middle class. The transition from the first state to the second state can only be effected through government action. And that's what we're putting in front of us. And this is the key to the future commission. And that's the answer to your question. We're creating a middle class.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u74	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u75	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear Igor Rafailovich. While appreciating the positive work of the Commission, I would like to clarify this point. One of your specific actions, which you, as a commission, have done so, has created and given to the deputies a development strategy for Ukraine. It's okay. Because I think there is really a lot of trouble in our lives and in our country over the lack of a development strategy. Tell me, please, how did this strategy, or your commission as a whole, work or work with the executive branch? How does your strategy for the development of Ukraine coincide with the vision seen by the executive power, including in certain specific matters? Such as budgeting for the following year. They are still documents that determine life for a year, but in general they must be stages in strategy. I'd like to hear your opinion. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u76	And I thank you so much for asking me this question. I think Ukraine can go to a knowledge society. To do that, we need 30 million literally to connect Donetsk-Harks, Kiev-Livs and join the European system. To do that, we need about 50 million to create a super-powered computational force. As long as politicians talk about the WTO, about joining Europe and so on and so forth. We're going to go in at very low cost compared to the billions that we're spreading if we support science. Unfortunately, when we look at the budget that the government has now presented to the Supreme Council, despite our letters from the committee to the Prime Minister, unfortunately, all these figures and our justifications have not been taken into account and have not been budgeted. I hope that the Supreme Council will respond accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u77	Please. All of you, sit down, Igor Raphaelovich, thank you both for your work and for your report. Head of the Temporary Special Commission for the Monitoring of the Implementation of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Relations and Cooperation between Ukraine and NATO, and of the “Ukraine-NATO” action plan, Oleg Aleksandrovich Zarubinski. 10 minutes to report, 5 minutes to question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would just like to clarify, not the “Ukraine-NATO” action plan, but the “Ukraine-NATO action plan”, because the goals of the “Ukraine-NATO” action plan are adopted for each year. It's just an inaccuracy. Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The commission was named by a decision of nearly three hundred Ukrainian national deputies and acted on the basis of part three of article 89 of the Constitution. In the beginning, it was composed of 20 national deputies, representatives of all, without exception, MPs and groups. Today, 18 because colleagues Kirilenko and Zushko broke out and worked in the executive branch. Today, these are 18 national deputies of Ukraine. The main form of the work of the Commission was and were meetings, and periodic meetings were held with the Supreme Council’s professional committees, as well as the National Centre for Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine. The main tasks of the Commission were to carry out parliamentary monitoring of the activities of the executive authorities with regard to the implementation of the Ukrainian-NATO action plan and corresponding, as I have already said, annual targets, to monitor the implementation of parliamentary hearings and to contribute to the legislative strengthening and expansion of the relations between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Alliance, and to implement the strategy of Ukraine's relations with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. In order to carry out its tasks, the commission, within its competence, monitored the implementation of the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings and targets for 2003-2004 and 2005. The last job is in progress. All interested Ukrainian subjects. In fact, the commission is one of the main bodies of parliamentary control over the state's activities in the field of Euro-Atlantic cooperation and integration. During practical work, the commission has established working contacts with more than 50 government authorities, who are responsible contractors, recommendations, and action plans. As well as the NATO Information and Documentation Centre in Ukraine, the NATO liaison office in Ukraine, and I would also like to point out a large number of public organisations dealing with Euro-Atlantic issues. On the basis of the information obtained, including the information received from direct contractors, parliamentary hearing recommendations and the action plan, the Commission is analysing it, according to which every six months, I would like to stress this, honourable national deputies, every six months in strict compliance with paragraph 4.6.4. in the form of written reports, we are assessing and preparing conclusions on the previous implementation of the annual targets, as well as our recommendations and observations on the improvement of the activities of the public authorities aimed at the implementation of the Ukraine-NATO action plan, which should be taken into account in the development of the next target plans. According to this parliamentary review, the results are being led to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to other higher authorities of the State, and to the general public. The reports that I have mentioned, and they have already been five, I do not mention the intermediate information that we regularly provide, the commission sends to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the professional committees of the Supreme Council, as well as to the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they are also posted on the sites of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The results of the commission’s work on the recognition of representatives of interested executive bodies, professional nongovernmental organizations, and the media have a positive impact on the quality of state-owned activities at the Queen’s Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine. Its recommendations, comments were repeatedly taken into account in the preparation of annual targets. In this context, by the way, this year's government structures, particularly the U.S.U.S.U., have specifically asked us for appropriate proposals. The Commission's particular direction is to monitor messages in mass media, just over 20 views. To show the format of one view monitoring messages about Ukraine's relationship. Ukraine-NATO cooperation, I'll show you, that's 1 out of 20. These are brochures. On a regular basis, we send this monitoring to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. The members of the Commission and its secretariat participated in more than 40 scientific and practical conferences and round tables in Kiev, and I would like to point out, in the regions of Ukraine, a Euro-Atlantic issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u79	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u80	The Commission directly organized a thematic meeting following the use of the 2003 "Ukraine-NATO" target plan, a press conference following the implementation of the 2004 "Ukraine-NATO" target plan. The Commission's further work, which is not being exhausted, is clearly not even exhausted by the implementation of the plan of action “Ukraine-NATO” and is being extended throughout Ukraine's preparations for integration, until the alliance, to ensure the cooperation of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Alliance, parliamentary control over the implementation of the plan of action “Ukraine-NATO” and other core documents of our State's bilateral cooperation with this organization. And I would like to stress this, objectively informing the public about the relationship between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Alliance. And for the last one, I just wanted to show you because we're talking about written reports, which is a necessity, in accordance with the Rules. One of the 40 - page written reports is a detailed report of ours. The work of our commission. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Three minutes left to ask. Please sign up. Try, Ivan Aleksandrovich, try. One more button. Yes, please, Vasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u82	Dear Oleg Alexanderovich, truly, full and complete answer to the question of how the work of your commission, the team, goes. But would you like to know whether there is a clear economic component of winning in the government today and losing nations from future NATO work, Ukraine's NATO entry?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u83	Thank you, thank you so much, Catherine Timothy. I think it's hard for me to answer for the government, especially since there's an honorary Anton Denisovich Buteyko. But, I mean, the connotation of your question, I wanted to show everyone here one of the goals. This target plan is Ukraine-NATO. And when we open this plan I'm talking about perspective, benefit or disadvantage, I'd like to pay attention to where it starts. Internal political issues to strengthen democratic and electoral institutions, goal one, one, and one. Target one, one, and two is to strengthen the authority and independence of the judiciary. Goal one, one, and three are to promote the continuous development and strengthening of civil society, the rule of law, the protection of fundamental human rights and social freedoms. Goal one, one, and four is to ensure freedom of religion. I'll jump. Goal one, two, eleven is to limit the difference in real income between high-income and low-income populations and to make efforts to eliminate poverty. I answer your question. What is the subject of our monitoring is extremely serious things that relate to the state, its economy, its democracy, and only, by the way, about 20, if I'm not mistaken about percentages, reform, reform of the armed forces and bringing to that standard that really has a modern appearance that can really ensure our national security today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u84	Weak Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u85	Sergi Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. I'd like to ask, in your opinion, the democratic transformations that exist in Ukraine's plans, let's say when you define your monitoring, when you check your monitoring, how much has the situation changed now if you take the comparison of 2004, 2005?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. You know, we're doing an analysis of the implementation of the 2005 annual plan right now. In terms of 2003-2004, according to our commission, this is slightly different from, let's say, statistics quoted by other branches of government. In 2003, 75 percent of the measures foreseen for the 2003 plan were implemented. In 2004, less than 65 percent. Why is there a certain imbalance with what other branches of authority. We don't think that we've made any formal arrangements, we don't think that when they're transferred and so on, we want real executions in those positions that I've been calling you, that relate to the whole life of our society. Unfortunately, I can't be optimistic about today, and I'm just saying this, I can't really talk about the real prospects for a 100 percent implementation of the 2005 annual plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Sit down, Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u89	Yes. We've heard three reports. Let us thank those who have responded and move on. We need to get back to the previously unsupported issues. I'll bet. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, we'll be different in 10 minutes. Well, there was no discussion. Well, what? Suggestions, when we consider decisions, will then be discussed and expressed. Ivan Alexanderovich! Get ready, you'll do it in different ways. We need to get back to the previously unsupported issues. I'm voting on who to go back to the draft law on the lifting of the ban on the export of alloyed black metals, the scrap metal and semi-manufactured metals and their use is our second reading. Bill number 7565. [[12:50:36]] For-126 We're not back. The factions. Please. The factions, now. Communists – 0, “Ukraine” – 2, People's Party – 10, “Ukraine” – 27, Block Timoshenko – 27, Socialists – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 9, Social Democrats – 0, National Block – 10, “Trust of the People” – 11, “Reforms and Order” – 11 as well, “One Ukraine” – 4, National Movement of Ukraine – 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 2, “Afterfractional” – 2. Sign up, three minutes. Three minutes, sign up. Press the buttons. Yes, please, Simonenko. He's behind him, Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u90	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, the President of Kazakhstan spoke to us half an hour ago. He taught many Ukrainian politicians how to implement public policies to protect national interests. To protect the State from rogues from thieves from all kinds of looting and looting; to show how to support the village in order to protect it from the destruction of the agro-industrial complex; to tell how to preserve raw resources today so that the future of future generations will be preserved. The President has once again taught us to think about the future. And I address, first of all, ours: by the time you're a scrap metal, what do you have to do?Oh, my God! Please go abroad, work there, do all of this, but leave you, for God's sake, with scrap metal for our metal mills, not for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u91	Katerina Vaschuk, please. Behind her is Sergey Slubenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u92	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I think we should first find a serious agreement between these laws and the government, their reprocessing taking into account the interests of the state, and then putting them in place. And that's what we put: it's not climbing, and we're pushing it. And second moment. On the line. There are still a number of similar issues in the Agrarian sector. So this morning, as a great financier of Ukraine, he was asked: "What is lacking in the Ukrainian village, he said that there is not enough intelligence." And then the “Era ” asked the question, whether it's finance or drugs or village or mind support? So I want to apologize to the peasants for their rudeness, because their work is so appreciated, because they feed the Ukrainian people. Let the government suffice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u93	Catherine Timofievna, you can see, is lacking in understanding in the sense that they are still feeding us. Yes, please, Sergey Weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u94	I'd like a word with Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u95	Please, Boris Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Boris Bespaliy, Yuschenka block "Our Ukraine". This bill, which has been tabled, really, for the introduction of Ukraine to the WTO, has been incorporated into the agenda by decision of the Conciliation Council. And I'm just saying, Adam Ivanovich, we don't have to put the projects that the Conciliation Council supported up to five minutes before the end of the session week, in order to fail them. Now for the purpose of joining the WTO. 150 countries, the richest, richest countries are members of the World Trade Organization, and Kazakhstan, our partner in the Single Economic Area, is much ahead of us in this process in the Russian Federation legislative plan, where Russian Communists vote for it because Russian Communists are patriots of their country, and they understand that this introduction is useful to people in Russia, as well as to people in Ukraine. I'm talking to the Ukrainian Communists: become Ukrainian at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u97	Yes, Boris Yakovitch, your accusation is a little off-limits, because we're following the agenda. That's the first one. The other one. Including your factions were very insistent to return to this law, and the chairman of the session said: “On Friday we will ask this question, we will consider it. We set it up and looked at it. So the claim isn't for the Headmaster. Simonenko, please, a line. And we'll move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u98	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, I would like you to understand that the Communist faction advocates the following: we are against the export of scrap metal outside Ukraine if our metal mills are not secured. We, the communists, advocate that the metal produced in Ukraine, including scrap metal, be cheaper, our production was more competitive, we could today provide a construction complex, a machine-building, a chemical Ukraine that is affordable with metal. Here's our position. What do the “ours” suggest? The Turks made a condition, Turkey made a condition, a requirement to export at zero rates of scrap metal. And what happened? It's not just black scrap metal, it's a colored scrap, it's a alloy metal. It's all going to be cheaper to get the Turks out, and we, Ukraine, are going to have to buy expensive metal. This is a crime before the people of Ukraine. That's why I'm saying, "Ours" stop selling Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u99	Yes, dear colleagues, once again, you've already exchanged lines. At first, Boris Jakovic, who first addressed Ukrainian Communists, gave him an answer. And that's where the lines stopped. Put your hands down, please, please, or your hands will come in handy. I see that there is only one question that can be addressed in our country today: “It’s different”. Please sign up for “Victane”. Yes, government officials, I'm sorry, you can be free, we won't be considering any more laws today. There's an entry on the "Victane". Light up, please. Yes, one hour, we start with the question: “It’s going to be different.” Please, Lukyanenko. Prepare Leonid the Mordecai.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. On July 11th of this year, the President of Ukraine issued decrees 1087 and 1088, which required the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to resolve the issue of financial support for the statutory activities of the Association of Hungermare Researchers in Ukraine. As head of the Association's commission, I submitted the necessary concerns to the Ministry of Finance and to the Committee on Budgets. The Deputy Minister of Finance refused, referring to the fact that the association was not included in the number of public organizations receiving financial support from the State Budget. I applied to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to comply with the President's decrees of 11 July 2005 and to introduce the Association of Starving Researchers in Ukraine to the list of famines in Ukraine on the list of organizations that receive financial support from the State Budget. Second, to provide for the 2006 State Budget Act for the statutory activity of an association in accordance with the funding provided to the Ministry of Finance and the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please consider this statement to be a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine issued a third decree entitled “To honor victims of famine in Ukraine”. The last sixth paragraph states that the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting is to provide wide media coverage of the events marking the victims of famine and political repression in 2005, as well as preparations for the 75th anniversary of the famine of 32-33 years in Ukraine, to organize a series of thematic radio and television broadcasts, to publish documents and material on these tragic events. I am addressing the State Committee with concern from the Association of Anti-Narcotic Researchers in Ukraine, at last, to begin to implement the President's decrees on enlightenment in Ukraine because of all the media of those tragic events that took place in Ukraine during the famines of 1921-1923, 1932-1933 and 1946-1947. Finally, we need to study our history. And it will help us to consolidate the nation and to resolve many of our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u101	Leonid Mordovian. After him, Vadim Gurov. There's no gurus. Oh, I'm sorry, I just...
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u102	Leonid Mordovets, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Sumska District Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners. Everyone knows the consequences of six years of reign in our district of Szerbán and its clan. Today, the results of this reign are reaping the entire area. The fact that Mr. Scherbian's case continues with his nesting birds is evidenced by the situation today in the village of the town type of Svís Yampil district, and in particular at the sole industrial enterprise of this village, the Swedish pump plant. Back in the days of Mr. Scherban, there was a so-called northeastern industrial group, which consisted of 11 companies. And the stock control package knows who it belonged to. Today, Mr. Scherban, as you know, is in exile. But the case continues with his successors. What does this business represent today? We, as a national deputy and my colleague Gregory Dashutin, have been approached by the companies of this company, as well as by the inhabitants of the territorial community, asking to meet and communicate, and to consult on how to be an enterprise today, which is the only budgetary establishment in this village. And also to look for ways out of that deep socio-economic crisis in which there was a village. Our first meeting, which took place on October 25, led to the fact that we were not allowed to meet a group of the company or its inhabitants. The palace of culture, as well as other facilities, was not allowed. We were impressed, especially by the situation in the village. It seemed like we were not in the middle of the first decade of the 21st century, but in the middle of the 1990s, when the main feature was the power outage and the lack of heat. We saw the same thing, for example, at this city’s preschool. Today, there is a difficult economic situation in this business. The salary is only 206 dollars, the average. This is lower than the average and the minimum. We were also prevented from meeting in a culture house and on November 10 this year under various circumstances. Actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u103	Thank you. Vadim Gurov, faction of the People's Party. Mikhailo Stepanov is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u104	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! In the proposals and comments of the 2006 draft budget, the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania and the Industrial Policy Committee were proposed to leave the norm for the 2005 level. The Budget Committee supported this well-founded requirement and took into account, although partly, but we have now received a second-reading draft budget, and what do we see? Everything's left at the same level. That is, there is an increase of 68 per cent from 2005 and 30 per cent from 2005 to 2005. The analysis shows that the optimum tax burden of mining enterprises is 10-12 per cent of the cost. Product delivery, including natural resource taxes, should be 2.5 per cent. What do we have now? The optimum tax burden we had in conducting the economic experiment that we had with you three years ago. A year after the experiment was completed, the tax burden was 13 per cent, and it will be 20 in 2006 already. Think about those numbers. At the same time, the share of wages paid in full is worth more than 8 per cent for iron ore mining enterprises. And for the Zaporozhye iron combination, which works for production, which costs up to 12 per cent of its cost, it's an insurmountable amount. Especially in difficult situations will be the Ingulecian, the Poltava Mountain Enrichment and Balaklava. And as a result, the profitability is projected to drop to negative 12.5 per cent for the Zaporozhye iron combination, and across Ukraine to negative 9. To be eligible, the proposed value of the charges for the use of subsoil exceeds the rules of the Russian Federation, with which we generally consider 2.5 times. By increasing the price of nadra, Kabmin does not take into account the rise in energy prices. Transport, spare parts. And can the respected metals be swallowed up by an increase of 20 to 30 per cent in commodity and flu prices? I don't think they can. It's on the outside market. China's cheap steel is stagnant. The increase in costs will result in a sharp decline in the competitiveness of Ukrainian metal and iron and steel raw materials, a decrease in budget income, and a reduction in local budgets. The faction of the People's Party of Lithuania and the Committee of Industrial Policy therefore calls on the State Budget 2006 to keep the rules for the use of subsoil in mining at the 2005 level. I consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u105	Thank you. Yes, please, Mikhailo Stepanov. The next Anishimov, passing on to Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u106	The distinguished President, distinguished deputies, as Ukraine knows, is a legal State where, inter alia, the Political Parties Act and the Criminal Code are in force. Regrettably, this is unknown to the leadership of the Ukrainian Transport University, otherwise it would not have pushed its subordinates to violate these laws, in particular article 170 of the Criminal Code, “intervention of the legitimate activities of professional associations, political parties and public organizations”. On 17 November, the Kiev City Committee of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, at 8.00 p.m., established a tent of agitation 50 metres from the entrance of the Transport University. No legislative act prohibits such activity and any political party and similar tents of other parties stand all over Kiev. However, at 8:20 a.m., two unknown persons who called themselves the progenitors of Bulah and Dmitriev, and with him two guards from the university attacked the campaign tent and blocked the work of the socialist party's agitators. On that day, there were 20 tents in Kiev, and only one of them was attacked by the Transport University. This sad fact proves that the metastases of the bush have not yet been completely eliminated. Regrettably, such mahogany use has been shown in a higher educational institution. Of course we'll go to court. Meanwhile, I am addressing the Minister of Education and Science, Stanislav Nikolaenko, with the proposal to organize courses for the Head of the Transport University on the elimination of legal illiteracy or to conduct individual classes with them, as they do for the elderly. In addition, I would like to point out the clear work of the police, who arrived at the scene of the conflict on time and immediately took steps to restore public order, and this fact proves once again that the militia and peoples slogan is being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u107	Zara Katusheva, Communist faction. Simonenko gives the word to prepare Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u108	The Communist faction, Katusheva, Crimea. The pre-election campaign had not yet begun, and the Communist Party of Ukraine's peoples were already standing in the way of meeting with their constituents. Thus, in order to fulfil my parliamentary responsibilities under article 28 of Part 7 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and at the invitation of the inhabitants of the city of Feodosia, who requested me to meet on 6 November, as many of them are working, and the only opportunity for them to meet with their deputy is the weekend. My assistant was sent in advance to the city head of Feodosius Shaderov for a meeting room. I was informed that in order to hold the planned meeting with the electorate, there was an allocation of a school room of 17, which was later refused by the Sheppelluk School Director, who was also a City Council MP. The planned meeting with voters, including those of advanced age, had to be held on the street at low air temperatures. At the end of the meeting with the voters, aware of their irregularity, the school director stated that he had arrived to provide the premises on request. Here's what's called "coming." At the meeting, people expressed their indignation and dissatisfaction at the outrage of power under the leadership of the orange President-in-law, because the people did not want to recognize the President, whose electoral campaign was financed by the United States State State Department and the Russian oligarch, the international aferist Berezowski. The electorate applied for orders to be issued from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The people are concerned about the vast number of parties using the name “national” and require a rule that only the political power that has been supported by at least 30 per cent of voters in recent elections is entitled to use the name “national”. Please consider my request to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ms. Litvin Vladimir Mihajlovich, and to the Head of the Supreme Council of Crimea, Mr. Daich Boris Daudovich. In listening to today's speeches, Mr. Kendzior's talk, which today has been about my friends and comrades, and the Soviet reality, Crimeans are asked to remind Krylov's fairy tale: "Alas, Mosca, she knows how strong she is when she barks at the elephant!" The Crimeans strongly advise Kendzior not to visit Crimea. Warm encounters with rotten tomatoes, orange oranges, and soft eggs guarantee it. The people will no longer allow orange mayans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u109	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Prepare Anatoly Domansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u110	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! On November 22, the authorities held an orange Sabbath on the burning ground. I mean the situation that the authorities of nationalists and socialists have now led to. Tortured as if a revolution had taken place as if there had been any change, they were deceiving the people as they had done before. The president's chosen for someone else's money. The Attorney General promised the Gongadze case - where is she? Where's Volkov's criminal case? Where is the Blasco-Kravchuk criminal case? Where are the 500 million dollars that were exported when Yashchenko was a banker to the offshore zones? They are talking today about the Scriban, which has been on the list of “ours”. They're no different from their predecessors. They have embalmed the people’s good, and they continue to do so. They're cool to fall and lick their masters' shoes, the U.S. It was a disgrace that the President of Ukraine and Bush signed a document on human freedom in Cuba and Belarus. And the Prime Minister talked to the U.S. that it seems that there's a situation in Belarus right now that was in Germany in the 1930s. But they never grow up in Belarus! I think they need to go to Belarus for four months to improve their qualifications for the 2006 elections. Did they consult with the people or not? Of course not. They lied in a holy place, in Sofia, where they swore against the Bible. May the 22nd on Maidan get on their knees and repent to the nard of Ukraine for what they have done. The Communist faction has many letters from simple voters. They are making their own proposals about Ukraine’s coming out of a deep crisis, improving the lives of the working people. Consider what the teacher from Winnitz wrote. It requires us, MPs, that UN-OPA soldiers should never be recognized as a warring party, because it's anti-national, anti-historic. They demand that we don't allow trade in land, they demand that we develop orange oranges, that we defend non-blocking and that we don't allow entry into NATO's aggressive bloc. They are now against joining the WTO because the agrarian sector of the economy will be destroyed. People demand that the Russian language be granted state status. We need to protect the family budget and not to ruin our relationship with Russia and Kazakhstan. Today, we are told, because this means a failure in the energy field. Get the troops out of Iraq and everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u111	Anatoly Domansky, Communist faction. Boris Bespallius conveys the word to Larissa Usachenko to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters! On these days, when the meeting of the Supreme Council is taking place, there are a number of gaps, killing people on Iraqi soil. The Ukrainian-Syria parliamentary group makes the statement “No New Aggression in the Middle East!” For the past six months, the campaign of provocation and threats against the Syrian Arab Republic has been on the rise. Similarly, the same scenario under which the U.S. and British aggression against Iraq was prepared. The campaign began with Syria's accusation of an attempt on the former Prime Minister of Lebanon, which was immediately dispersed in the international media long before the investigation of this horrendous crime began. Regrettably, the defamation and suspicion of the media, the preconceived position of the leadership of the United Nations investigative commission, as expressed in the report of its leader, as well as the aggressive policies of the United States of America, have led the UN Security Council resolution on Syria to provide preconditions for the start of the United States aggression and their satellites against Syria. We remember well when the American leadership deceived its people, deceived world society and waged war in Iraq. We are. Syria, a country with long-standing traditions of friendship with the Ukrainian people consistently held anti-war positions, proves that all contentious issues must be addressed at the negotiating table, that there is no positive solution to military aggression. It has now become the target of threats, provocations and aggression against it. We believe that the defamation, suspicion and threat of Syria, which has been unleashed in the media, can lead to a new aggression, to an expansion of the dawn of war in the Middle East, to Ukraine's involvement in a new war, a conflict against a friendly country. In this regard, the Ukrainian-Syria parliamentary group demands that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider increasing tensions around Syria, which could lead to the start of a new aggression and the expansion of hostilities in the Middle East in Syria. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to pursue a traditional friendly policy against Syria and not to participate in decisions and documents that would increase the threat of a new military conflict around Syria. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, strengthen monitoring of the implementation of decisions to withdraw the Ukrainian military contingent from Iraq by the end of this year. We call on the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the artists, science and culture of our country to support the treatment of the new war in the Middle East. We call on Ukrainian public and political organizations to participate in a picket of solidarity with the Syrian people, which will be held on 22 November 2005 on Belarusska Street, 5, this is the Lukjanovska Metro Station. Our joint actions prevent a new war, prevent new deaths of Ukrainian soldiers for the sake of foreign interests. A deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u113	Larissa Usachenko, please. Behind her is Alexander Tkalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u114	Larissa Usachenko, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Motherhood and childhood issues are extremely relevant. Children are the future of Ukraine, and it is up to us to decide what it will be. As our national president pointed out, attention to mother and child is the main task of the Ukrainian State. A healthy mother and child is a healthy country. Child mortality, trauma, somatic and infectious diseases in all ages are quite high. The effects of socio-economic problems such as tuberculosis, HIV infection, acute infectious diseases such as dysentery, gastroenterocytes, viral hepatitis should be of particular concern. These are diseases, first of all, poor people, lack of attention and financial support for low-income, multi-child, single-parent families, unemployment. Oncological diseases deserve special attention. The fight against cancers today is one of the most painful medical and social problems of Ukrainian society. There are about 160 new cancers in Ukraine every year. Experts estimate that by 2010, this figure could reach 180,000, exceeding 200,000. If oncologic diseases were previously suffered mainly by elderly people, this problem is now increasingly affecting young people. 35 percent of cancer patients are people of working age. Over 5,000 children under the age of 15 have cancer. Of these, almost 3,000 expect to be cured. Today, oncropology at the level of disease and mortality worldwide is one of the first places in the general statistical registers to describe the health rate of the population. European Commission experts say that one in four people in the European Union die of cancer. Every year, 837 000 Europeans die from cancers and about four million new cases of cancer. Such a terrible situation requires active action to ensure proper treatment. For the child’s physical and psychological development, healthy nutrition, and an optimisation of living conditions are key. The cost of doing so is not sufficient for the healthy growth of the young body at preschool and school facilities. So we need to create the right conditions for life, education, and child rearing. To provide them with all they need, to increase funding for educational institutions, maternity homes, youth and children’s government programs. Set priorities for housing policies aimed at supporting single mothers, virgins, orphans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u115	Thank you. Alexander Tkalenko. The next one is Sergei Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u116	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine A statement by the People's Movement of Ukraine concerning the presence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. The official circles of Russia continue to view the existence of the Black Sea Navy Marine Base of the Russian Federation in Sevastopol as a focal point in Ukraine and the Black Sea region. At the same time, the presence of the fleet in our territory has led to a wide range of political, economic, social, environmental problems, the negative impact on Ukraine’s international image, has been a major factor in stimulating separatist sentiments. The failure by the Government of the Russian Federation to comply with Ukrainian legislation and basic agreements of 28 May 1997 on the status and conditions of the fleet in Ukraine has become one of the painful issues of Ukrainian-Russian relations and has directly affected Ukraine's national security. Among the key issues that need immediate solutions can be noted. Systematic violations by the Black Sea State Sovereignty Fleet of Ukraine, the failure to maintain established arrangements for the use of leased land, immovable property and coastal infrastructure, the illegal maintenance of navigational hydrographic equipment, pollution of the Black Sea water supply, the inability to control the level of the fleet’s weapons, and so forth. In addition, under the Agreement on Mutual Accounting, the Russian side has to reduce Ukraine’s government debt by 97 million dollars annually, which will take 24 years. Therefore, the National Movement of Ukraine proposes that the remainder of Ukraine’s debt be repaid at the expense of Russia’s debt of $20 billion, which has been accumulated as a result of artificially detaining assets, land leases, and fleet funds. The ability of the Russian side to conduct civilised reckonings should allow the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to complete the inventory of land, coastal infrastructure, water areas, and the real cost of renting. Otherwise, Ukraine will have good reason to demand, on the basis of the loss of benefits, compensation for damages and recognition of basic contracts that are subject to review or denunciation. The faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine urges the immediate consideration of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to study the status of the implementation of the basic status and conditions of the Black Sea fleet and proposes to the next meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Council of National Security and Defence to consider the status of implementation of these agreements with further working out recommendations for negotiations within the framework of the International Commission of the Yuschenko-Putin. We appeal to all fellow national MPs to show patriotic feelings and to support our initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u117	Sergey Gmira, Communist faction. Kluczynski Mikola conveys the word Sergey Žizko, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues! On 22 November, the authorities were going to gather another Maidan, who seemed to be planning to celebrate something, to report something. I don't know what we can celebrate now under the conditions in which we're in, we can report on, and so is the question. Of course, it would have to be reported where Berezovsky's money was, but they don't want it. Timoshenko and Yushchenko will argue, which of them is more orange, and which of them is better? They can be calmed down here. Both political forces are orange and both bad. I don't think the authorities have anything to report, she can't do it. I mean, the authorities need to repent, but I don't think it's necessary to do that, and it takes a conscience to repent, and it doesn't have a conscience. The authorities must confess to the oppression of the incontrovertible evidence of the crimes she has committed. First, she needs to know that she has put the country in another economic crisis. As you know, since 1991, all governments have pushed our country into a pit, but our heroic people, in overcoming the resistance of all Governments, have begun to pull the country out of the crisis. But before the oranges, he was powerless. We're falling into this abyss again. The authorities must be aware that it has further strengthened corruption that flourishes in Ukraine. Victor Yushchenko said, "I will fight corruption." Period. Having placed an end to the fight against corruption, he and his environment immediately entered into a corruption scandal. You don't have to forget that. The authorities must, in orange power, recognize that they knowingly are deliberately dragging our people into WTO under extremely unfavourable, humiliating, slave conditions. They must recognize that our country is in poverty, and tens of thousands of bracelets are being set up at that time. The supporters of Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko said that she was not involved. I don't get it. Timoshenko's signature was forged on these 13 papers? Then let him go to court. The orange power must confess to all of this. He probably won't. I don't have the conscience I was talking about. All these issues must then be addressed by the prosecutor. And in order to accelerate this process, we, the Communists, will collect the red robes on 22 November, on which we will present the registry account to the orange authorities. Something's not forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u119	Mikola Kulczynski gave the word Sergio Žizko, please. Next Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u120	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I want a line on the previous speech. We're just going to a new stage in the development of the Ukrainian state and we're just starting to win, and I'm convinced that President Yushchenko and the government will ensure a decent standard of living for the Ukrainian people during the period they've chosen. But I want to speak on behalf of citizens who are victims of maritime piracy. The fascination of the Somali pirates of Ukrainian sailors forces us to take full responsibility for addressing the general problem of international banditry and terrorism. The numerous attacks of armed groups to rob and kidnap hostages in order to obtain a ransom in various regions of the planet have all the signs of terrorist activity. The victims of such cases are peaceful citizens of different states, so the international community must be interested in ensuring effective resistance to attempts to capture hostages and eventually to overcome them completely. As a country, a member of the anti-terrorist coalition, Ukraine has every reason to appeal to the UN for the creation of several small units of special purpose, which could be located in areas where there is the greatest threat of looting, accompanied by the capture of hostages and whose task would be to assist in the fight against piracy, banditry and terrorism in the respective countries. However, this appeal by Ukraine to the international community even if the issue is resolved positively will require a certain deadline for implementation, while Ukrainian citizens, sailors, fishermen, and aircraft continue to be at risk of being captured by criminals on a daily basis. Therefore, in addition to trying to solve the problem by creating special forces in the UN peacekeeping force, efforts should be made to create their own respective unit and expand its activities. World practice has shown that the United States, Israel, Britain, France, and a number of other countries have repeatedly resorted to special protection operations in recent decades. In particular, General Peter Schuemaker's testimony, in the past, U.S. commander of special operations, was transferred to 152 countries in which 280 special operations were carried out in the year 98. Thus, the current law on the basis of national security is defined as the protection of the vital interests of both the individual and the citizen. The Security Service Act relies on it, including the protection of the legitimate interests of the State and the rights of citizens against interference by organizations, groups and individuals. Therefore, the executive authority should do so today, to exercise political will to ensure the protection of its fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u121	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kozlovsky gives Kisse the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u122	I want to answer to our Ukrainian capésses about this lamentation that is. But I am asked to convey the word of an outstanding Ukrainian poet, the defender of the Ukrainian spirit, Dmitri Pavličko, and I am pleased to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u123	Ukrainian People's Party, Dmitri Pavlitzko I'd like to draw your attention, to the Committee on Budgets, to the fact that today the Ukrainian book market is 93 percent by name and 70 percent by Russia's product is cheaper than our book production. In addition, the Russian-speaking book appears directly and in Ukraine as a result of the need for society in the Ukrainian book is not satisfied. The overall circulation of Ukrainian - speaking books and brochures declined by 11 times, including the 63 - time English - speaking literature. In 2000-2004, the total distribution of books by Dnipro compared to the end of the 1980s decreased by at least 132 times and so on throughout all publications. The book’s famine has become possible not only because the market has been launched but also because of the loss of its own resources to paper production but also because of the indifferent and criminal state policy of the new government. Sadly, when Kuchma’s reign saw a sharp decline in the amount of money allocated to the book - making program, it grew slowly but recently. I'd like to say that we didn't pay any attention here to the statement by the representative of Dragnibok about increasing the funding of the Ukrainian Book Program. Neither the Budget Committee nor the government responded. Meanwhile, President Viktor Yushchenko recently drew attention to the dramatic disparities in Ukrainian and Russian literature. In one of his speeches, the President said: “Today’s approval of Ukrainian language in our lives is an important element of Ukrainian state policy.” However, I would like to ask our President: Your Honor, Victor Andryovich, how should those words be consistent with what you said you could be a partner of the students of the University of Donetsk regarding the granting of Russian national status? The state status of two languages in Ukraine is the death of one language, Ukrainian. I ask you, dear President, for which I have given my energy, all the strength of my talent, to pay attention. One national language, one Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u124	Anton Kisse has the word. And then there'll be an interesting rocking: Chechel passes the word to Paku, and Pak passes the word to Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u125	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, dear voters! I was forced into this high rostrum, so to speak, by a group of our electors, who are just a few days away from the walls of the Supreme Council. The problems that have been facing the Institute of Land Forces, located in the city of Odessa, for many years have been the cause. I just want to comment on some of the facts, my respectable colleagues, the well-respected voters. As a result of the work of this excellent educational institution for 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, it is recognized that it is the best educational facility in the ground forces. More than 40 delegations, including NATO, representatives of the United States, Italy, Germany, Great Britain, China and many other countries, have visited the educational institution recently. In 2004, another stage was set up — the students who are studying in this educational institution. In 2005 the educational establishment was identified as a basic training facility for Ukrainian ground troops in March-months. A decision had already been taken by the Ministry of Defence within a week to abolish the relevant decision of the Ukrainian Defence Department panel and another basic educational institution in the ground forces had been identified. This initiative has been adopted for some reason. I think so, and I'm sure. That it is now a school where 80 doctors of science and science candidates work, it is a school that has a long tradition. The logistics base of this educational institution has been improved today. What is the reason? Training? Nope. Are you in the institution? Nope. In the professionalism of the teaching staff? Nope. Problems related to a situation that is in excellent condition today? Nope. Or is the land in the center of Odessa more than 60 acres [60 ha] a problem? I think so. That today on behalf of this rostrum, on behalf of our “Trust of the People” Group, I appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, to all interested persons, in order to consider, as soon as possible, the suspension of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of 26 May 2005 with the number 1381 “On the suspension of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u126	Yes, please, Vladimir Park. After him, Sergey Chickanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u127	Vladimir Park, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, national deputies, radio listeners! In recent times conflict and domestic litigation have become the source of bodies that, under their responsibilities and powers, should be removed or prevented. Otherwise, as groundless as it is, you will not call some local prosecutors to review the ownership of consumer cooperation for former, so - called, colstopian markets. Covering up the State's interests today, there are massive judicial burdens in the regions on long-standing issues of ownership rights to the markets. I explain, back in Soviet times, in the 87th year, that the poor property of markets used by the state ineffectively in connection with the food crisis and the collapse of colostomy markets, that the state, by means of the rulings of the C.C. Company and the Council of Ministers of the USSR, transferred free of charge to the property and management of consumer co-operation. At the same time, consumer cooperatives were obliged by the State to rebuild markets at their own expense, restore their jobs, and fill them with cheap quality goods. I notice that over the course of 18 years, co-operation has invested ten times the cost of markets at the time of their transfer. The question of the legality of such a transfer was repeatedly raised by the Ukrainian authorities. The legality of ownership of Ukrainian consumer co-operation in these markets was recognised by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the submissions and protests of the Attorney General, in the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the National Academy of Sciences, the Institute of State and the law of the name of the Korean State. Even so, it was confirmed by the Supreme Court of Arbitration ruling of other judges. Moreover, the right of ownership of the consumer cooperative to the property was recognized by the Constitutional Court in November 2004. Today, however, the prosecutor of Mariupol and Friends is again raising this issue, bringing lawsuits against consumer cooperatives. Regrettably, the Holding Fund has taken a destructive stand by encouraging the development of the conflict, although it acknowledges that in its letters, which are not an authority for the management of former colostomy markets, they have not been transferred to the knowledge of the Ukrainian State Property Fund as state property and have not been included in lists of objects that are or are not privatized. For some reason, however, the fund believes that the consumer cooperative violated the property rights of the state by owning and owning these markets. Why, then, these violations if the State has given away these markets? Sadly, all of this reminds us of the basis. An interesting scheme where these markets will be taken into consumer co-operation and transferred to the hands of the oligarchs. What is a new form of privatization of property acquired in Soviet times? So maybe the Prosecutor's Office and the Holding Foundation will review the legality of the nationalization of property in the 17th century? I'm sure it is. I don't think that's gonna happen. General, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u128	Thank you. Sergey Chickanov, Communist faction. Yes, Porovsky Mikola. I can't see. Loboda gave the word to Orzhachowski. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u129	Deputy Chicanov, Communist faction. Respectable voters! It does not bring the many-suffering Ukraine to power: one regime and its supporters have simply quietly robbed the skin of their people, and in the new power, the same theft is suddenly covered with great morals, much larger, and continues to be initiated by the predecessors. A new type of orange officials appeared, which seemed to be important by the politicians, apparently seeing a combination of unscrupulous chatter and the grabbing of popular wealth. That is why it appears that Prime Minister Timoshenko has set them an unmeasured salary to replace the brain with money. Unfortunately, it doesn't work. Mr. Tarasyuk, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has recently issued a unique nonsense. [[A diplomat, I think!]] It appears that an agreement with the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people must be concluded immediately and the fleet of the Russian Federation from Sevastopol must be removed for breach of the terms of the treaty, which is the subject of diplomatic negotiations, not political speculation. He particularly resents Mr. Tarasyuk’s misbehavior, in his view, of Russian sailors. How should they act? It turns out, only by NATO standards, that in the press, the second deputy head of the Ukrainian Navy, Ryzenko, appeared to be hoping to get another star on the run, must urgently deploy NATO bases. The gentlemen do not want to understand that Sevastopol is not Okinawa, not Guantanamo, not a NATO base, but a city-hero, a city-base where there is no clear division of the infrastructure of the fleet and civilian facilities where the population lives with the fleet. It is asked who authorized orange officials to broadcast on behalf of the State, its people, in an attempt to ignite inter-national and inter-State discord. Or is this President Yushchenko's policy? What do we have here? The Constitution has been abolished by Tarasyuk? However, as noted in Ukraine, Mr. Tarasyuk is not successful in his position as Minister, nor in his title. His latest statements should at least entail official responsibility. What is the reason for such a shameless, unthinkable diplomat's experience? The first reason lies in the desire to complete the order of the American masters, fueling the opposition of Ukraine and Russia, by providing the bases for the deployment of foreign troops in Ukraine, NATO in the first place. This is contrary to the Constitution. The second reason for the need to divert the attention of the people during the electoral period to the domestically created hotspots of tension. The third reason is the desire to transfer funds directly from the Russian fleet to the local budgets of Crimea and Sevastopol under the control of their own structures to launch the so-called clean hands of Kiev officials. Thus, North-Denmark separatists rest after the statements of Minister Tarasjuk and the seaman of the understudy. I categorically protest against such a sudden unconstitutional, low-literate and furry approach to the performance of my duties as Foreign Minister, Tarasyuk, and demand that the President resign him. Injury is now at the forefront of public policy. We must repent to the people of the orange liars, not celebrate the anniversary of the mass deception of the people in Maidan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u130	Anatoly Orzhachowski. Behind him is Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u131	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Honorable national MPs, voters. In recent times, politicians, citizens, newspapers, and newspapers have not come together on budget topics, wages, and high - income pensions. As for the latter, there is a clear provocation of government officials to demean the role of the Supreme Council. Who would benefit from that? Obviously, orange leaders and their foreign patrons. Recently, Ukrainian citizens experienced the inflationary efforts of Nazbank and the government when 600 million dollars were in poverty. The financing of investment programs in regions is now blocked. Therefore, the telegrams of the self - government authorities about the halting of gasification, the water supply in Hersonian. So the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't use financial resources to improve production, the social sphere. We are increasingly witnessing not only the total sale of Ukraine's economic potential but also the open financing of the Western economy. The level of illegal export of capital abroad is high, and criminal liability is not available because there is no will to rule. Where will it come from when there's corruption, camaraderie, fraternization with crime, the Lippie Midan? In other words, if today’s economic policy continues, we will continue to develop exclusively negative trends. The failure of many manufacturing enterprises and the sale of existing ones confirms the systemicity of President Yushchenko's actions. If it were not for the sale of “Criminals”, it is not known how the authorities would explain the existence of holes in the most beautiful, according to Mrs. Yuli, budgets. This suggests that GDP growth will be achieved by nothing but lies and false statistics. National Patriots often shout that Ukraine should become a market. Which to me, our market is nothing more than a holocracy. In the market economy, it's so hard to see. The newly discovered ladies and Mrs. Yushchenko, Timoshenko, were put on the knees of entrepreneurs, rural laborers. The last 220 in Hersonish alone refused to be, so - called, landowners. I remind those who are in a hurry to get to WTO. Try first to go to the American market with our cheap products. You'll be charged with fines under the anti-dumping law that you don't want to carry on. In addition, the authorities of any Western country will do everything they can to protect their manufacturer. In particular, the U.S. often imposes an economic embargo against rebellious countries, using severe sanctions until they are free. We're told that the European market is 12 times more than the Russian market. What, then, will we offer Europe? It is no different on a larger scale than the Ukrainian natural resources, stealing from the next generation of the people. Today, it is clear that Europe and the United States do not accept Ukraine as an international subject. To them, Ukraine is a nocturnal territory that is to be an accessory to them sooner or later. So our economic growth is only possible if we increase our cooperation with the SND countries. The outcome for us is the adoption of the Peter Simonck bill on the principles of internal and external politics. These are the only ones that are clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. After him, Shulga gives the word "Phydenku" to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u133	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to address the Supreme Court of Ukraine and, in particular, his head, Vasil Timothy Malarenko. And I ask you to correct my appeal to him for action. Because the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko, as the guarantor of the Constitution, has repeatedly claimed that all violators of electoral legislation, primarily the organizers of these crimes, would be held accountable by the law of Ukraine. I want to tell you what this really looks like. Accused of articles 157, Part 3, 158, Part 3 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, Mr. Lunicev is just such an organizer and perpetrator of the crime in Luhansk, which has been proved by the prosecutor’s office, by acts of judicial expertise. This crime violated not only the citizen of Koloytsev Fish but also several tens of thousands of voters in election district No. 107. This criminal case is a confirmation of the political dispute over Ukraine's national deputy 2 and 3 appeals to Klomojev, who, in good faith, in carrying out his duties, representing the interests of the inhabitants of the Lugansk region, along with the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, which I led in the Supreme Council 3 vocations, has been constantly working to combat corruption among the high-ranking officials of the Lugansk region, which was covered by former President Kuchma. As a result, under the pressure of these individuals, he was illegally removed from the registration of candidates for the Ukrainian National Deputies in the 2002 parliamentary elections. This was done to prevent him from continuing his parliamentary activities to protect the rights of the voters in the Luhansk region, to combat corruption. I want to speak in the language of the documents. I have before me a fresh appeal from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on October 31, 2005, on behalf of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, stating that the matter of the Office of the Attorney General of the Supreme Court had changed the criminal jurisdiction with a view to its objective consideration, to the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region, where it was addressed to the Slovenian City Court. But illegal things were supposed to be there. An illegal order was made to refer the presiding judge in the case of Judge Heinka. And although it was overturned by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, this ruling, despite the Supreme Court’s prior decision on the absence of conditions for an objective judicial hearing in the Luhansk region, is again being referred to the Lugansk region. At the same time, Mr. Lunicev worked in management positions in the Luhansk region. The head of the Luhansk District Council was a confidant of the Presidents of Yanukovic, and Lunicev was a member of the electoral commission of the same candidate. Tikhov, Head of the Court of Appeal, Fesenko, was also present at a well - known meeting in Severodonetsk. So I'm asking for justice. I'm asking you to take the case out of Luhansk County to anyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u134	Stanislaw Phydenko, a faction of Communists, followed by Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u135	Dear voters, first of all, I warmly welcome farm workers and their professional festival. Today, I would like to face such a problem -- how and where is our country moving, and who and why is setting a course for its progress? The last question can be answered immediately, for Yehanurova was told literally by days in the United States that Ukraine’s further development course would be funded by the Carnegie Foundation. We'll probably live happily ever after. Let's think about how 14 years ago, as a result of the socialist system, Soviet Ukraine entered a dozen highly developed states in the world, and the record of Ukraine in the 1990s is 1 tons of grain and 1 tons of metal per capita has not been beaten by any other country in the world. It would seem that the normal state with its normal leaders would have to move away from these achievements and gain momentum for further development. However, that did not happen. On the contrary, the economy, the culture, the social protection of humans were first seriously undermined and then destroyed. As a testimony to that performance today, the national deputy Paulick. Ukraine, with such tremendous opportunities for accelerated development, was in fact thrown back in the 1950s and 1960s on its own. Recall that Kuchma confessed “to go to Europe and we were taken to Africa”. True, he forgot to tell me who brought it. To destroy is not to build. The mind is needed here, and it's lost mainly in leadership and, to a large extent, in the people. To a great extent, not entirely, because our people of Ukraine are slowly sleeping. For five years, we have been singing in the Red Calin arenas, recalling: “And we will lift up this red calina and we will cheer up our famous Ukraine.” Cheer up. But they quickly came to their senses. Song optimism quickly changed with a prolonged streak of pessimism and hopelessness. A year ago, in Maidan, a propriety of politics reassembled the trusted Ukrainian people and worried about the sensitive string of part of the people who tended to believe in a miracle and wanted a change after the Kuchma regime. What people have heard from the U.S. political community. All they wanted was for you to wake up tomorrow in a completely different state, which has stalled, and the rich will share with the poor. That's never the way it is. It is easier to believe hypocritically in God than to fulfill God’s requirement — the rich Kingdom of the heavens does not follow. Prison thieves do that everywhere, but we don't. Our thieves rallied in the government, called it the only clean - handed team, and shared and distributed the looted crowd for a year. But nothing happened to them because they're besties and friends of the President. By the end of the year, the Pension Fund had a shortage of about 3 billion dollars, so why pay the pension? The year is ending. Once again, the people have been deceived. But it probably won't be for long. And in that election, they'll show. There are peoples who teach from time to time, and there are peoples who come upon the same rakes all their lives. Are you guys going back to the congruently overcooked and compromised oranges? Are you going to vote for them again? So, then there's a mind? Let's be smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u136	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we are the day before the election campaign again, the word “genocide” is being heard again and is looking for someone responsible for it. World War II led to the inclusion of that word in the vocabulary and, decades ago, an international tribunal. called genocide a crime. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on December 9, 1948, the UN General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Prevention of the Crimes of Genocide and on the Involvement of Responsibility. This convention was ratified by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1954, the United Kingdom in 1970 and the United States in 1988 alone. It started only in 1990. Why, and because Indian organizations and a number of historians in the United States prove that the Native American population had committed genocide because the number of Red Americans had declined from 12 million in 1500 to 237 in 1900. And now this campaign is going on. I would also like to draw our common attention to the fact that in 1965 - 1966 the Indonesian government destroyed one million Communist Party members and those peasants who felt for them because the Communists were particularly popular in the countryside. So Dictator Suhart’s army directly surrounded the villages and destroyed all the inhabitants in a row. The genocide in Rwanda has been well - known for nearly decades. And now I have to draw a small conclusion. In every culture and in every society, there is a distribution based on nationality, race, religion, and, more recently, on political views. In the event of a political split of society, there is a precursor to genocide -- political illustrations -- which is evidenced by modern Ukrainian history when orange winners in the presidential election in 2004 asked, as it were, to release officials with saturated chairs, more than 20,000 representatives of the old, blue and white regime. I want to testify that its capital is being squandered everywhere, systematically trying to deny its evil role in the genocide of dozens of peoples of the world. That is why he will never succeed. And we have to say, “The modern orange genocide in Ukraine — no!”
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-18-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry not everyone got the word, because you've got 15 minutes left now, so we'll be done. Anyway, the broadcast is off, Yuri Anatolyevich, we'll talk to ourselves. I would ask, when we speak, let's think about what we're saying, because sometimes, without thinking about it, we can say a lot of things. There are some of them, as it were, at the KPSS address, but I read their tearful statements as they asked to become those members. So we don't have to mention what we sometimes know not to call. Let us be objective and speak figures and facts. Dear colleagues, let us once again bow low to our breadwinners, welcome the workers of agriculture and their festival, it is their holiday, unfortunately, with tears in our eyes, because the harvest is not bad but unrealized, and we will expect that we will be wise with you when we accept the State Budget and then ask for the peasants and the expenses they need. I remind you that we work in constituencies on November 21-25. On November 23, there will be parliamentary hearings “About the situation of young people in Ukraine. Rural youth: the state, problems and ways of solving them.” The next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on November 29. We will begin by considering the State Budget in the second and perhaps in the final reading. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Good luck.
