ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:47]] There were 410 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, our colleagues, Martinenko Mikli Volodymirovich and Remenjuka Alexi Ivanovich. Let's welcome them and wish them well. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of our work in the plenary session on January 11th, yesterday. 14 issues of the agenda were considered. 12 bills and three draft decrees. As a result of their consideration, four laws were passed, four bills were adopted as a basis for the first reading, three bills were rejected, one bill was designed for redrafting, two were adopted, one draft decree was adopted as a basis. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, with your permission, I will announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian national deputies: Sergey LARINA to the President of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Attorney-General, on the misconduct of a member of the Central Election Commission of Mageri. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:47]] Z-70. Request not supported. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the violation of the right of military pensioners to recalculate their pension in accordance with the provisions of the current Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants. Anatoly of ORJAHOV to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the illegal actions of the Government of Ukraine regarding the granting of a permit to move history to honor the liberation soldiers in the city of Tsurupinsk of Herson and the failure of veterans of the Great War. Stepan Cloud to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for information on the movement and consequences of the visit of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Russian Federation on January 7, 2005. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Acting Prime Minister for compensation to the participants in the liquidation of the accident and to the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Acting Prime Minister for Social and Economic Development Expenditures in the 2005 budget. Vadima GUROVA to the prime minister's responsibility to finance the restructuring of Krivbasu mines. Anatolysa RACHAN to the Acting Prime Minister for failure by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to perform the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 4 August 2004 to complete it. Alexander THE Prime Minister’s responsible role in the implementation of the National Programme for Environmental Health of the Dniper Basin and Improvements in the Quality of Drinking Water. Jury CARMAZINA to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the General Audit and Audit Office for the massive phase-out of the Sanitary and Curiosity Network, the destruction of the Phtysiatric Service, the violation of the order of purchase of medical drugs at the expense of budgetary resources and the use of measures to organize the activities of the Ukrainian Sanitary and Epidemiological Service. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Acting Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, for the purpose of clarifying the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the 2005 State Budget. Jury CARMAZINA to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee to prevent the development of maritime transport and the activities of the national carrier, the ship company Ucrferry. MICHELLA PAVLE to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on the need to investigate officials of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the “Universals” who carry out policies to discriminate against national porous carriers and make the use of state transit opportunities worse. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General for the presumptuous actions of unknown persons who “marked” the national date of 100th anniversary of the birth of the outstanding writer of Mikola Island by destroying his bosom near the museum in the city of Bojarka Kyiv region. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMPLAV to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the organization of the rehabilitation of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The Gennady of the DDVENCH to the Attorney-General on the misconduct of officials of the authorities of the Kamyan-Dniprov district of Zaporozhye and, in particular, the interdisciplinary prosecutor in relation to the Koba family because of their political beliefs. Mr. Yulia TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the Exceeding of Officials of the Department of Internal Affairs in Kiev. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General for the artificially delayed criminal proceedings by the local court of the district of Dniprožinska, which had been damaged by the fact that the budget had been stolen in a particularly large way. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General in connection with the adoption of the session of the Czernovetsk District Council of the decision to obtain a loan at the Savings House under the construction of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Anatolya RACHANCIA to the Attorney General, Ministry of Environmental Protection, acting as Minister of Transport and Liaison for the violation by the Kerchen Seaport of the conditions for the production and transport of sand in the area of Lake Donuzlaw and the failure of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Anatolya MATIJENKA to the Attorney General on the investigation of the criminal activity of the former Deputy Head of the Security Service of the Ukraine of Satsuk and associated persons who, for the support of the leaders of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev and the Pecher Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev on 18 February 2004, carried out an attack and a violent seizure of the premises of the closed stock company “Science and Production Company Mediengservis” and later the kidnapping of the specified building and other immovable property, money. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General on the legality of spending the budget by Winnick’s city head, Dombrowski. A group of people's deputies to the Attorney-General for the arrest of the head of the People's Advocate Public Organisation, lawyer of the newspaper “Honest Word” Jaroslav Vasuk. [[COWLEY, COWLEY, CHICKEN.]] Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General for the prosecution of the investigation and for the making of a legal decision on a criminal case. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General on the facts of the criminal activity of the Chief of the Ministry of Interior in the Valley Region of Melnicken and the Chief of the Ravenna City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Hanenk and their criminal responsibility. [[RED, ALEXIUM, WIDE]] Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General for the facts of illegal construction in a part of the Yaltin Forest Nature Reserve. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Attorney General for the supervision of the conduct of a criminal case. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney-General for the formal approach of the colleagues of the Attorney-General's Office to clarify the conditions for reforming the society with limited responsibility “Vinnická district education and production unit”. Gregory OMELČENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the provision of full information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the circumstances of the illegal sale abroad of military property and winged missiles in 1999-2001 by officials of the State Company Ukrespecexport and the Ukrainian Security Service. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney-General for incomplete investigation of the facts of the case during the Office of the Attorney-General’s examination of the legality of the privatization of the collective enterprise “Vasilevska Skin Firm”. To the Attorney General, Vladimir JAVORIY has been investigating the theft of national property by the State’s administration of matters. John MIHOVIĆA to the Attorney General for the insufficient investigation of the causes of the death of Professor Slivka, Rector of Uzhgorod National University. MICILI REDOVSKI to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of shareholders of the Open Shareholders Association “Cherniguvatodetal”. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Head of the Supreme Court on speeding up the consideration of the cassation complaint for an appeal to the open-ended “Summian Breadcombinate” company. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Health regarding the allocation of a car for a medical outpatient hospital located in the area of the military garrison of the village of Lake Zitomir district of the Zitomir region. MICHAEL VOLINCE to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service for the organized persecution of student observers from the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk with the involvement of teachers, police officers and criminal elements. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Culture and Arts regarding the critical situation that has been established in the institutions of the culture of the Malovski district of Kirovograd. Vitalia OLUYKA and Vasil SPAK to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the preservation of the cultural heritage of Delilah, the Medjibian Fortress of the 14th century. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Chief of Staff of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Lviv region regarding the delay in the appointment of an old-age pension on extended terms for a citizen named Nadić. Anatholic to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Head of the Herson District Council on the problems of the functioning of the municipal service of the Hersonian Rural Council and the need for financial support for the reconstruction of the existing water supply system. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the executive responsibility of the Head of State for the management of the National Centre of Ukraine, aimed at eliminating the unique programme for the rehabilitation of children with disabilities. Gregory OMELZENKA to the Prosecutor of the Donetsk Region, the Prosecutor of the city of Donetsk, for the criminalization of members of the tax police of the city of Donetsk for gross violations of citizens’ constitutional rights and beatings. John TOMIĆA to the Head of the Government of the Open Shareholder Association “Kretelekom” for shutting down the telephone of the Assistant Consultant of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Head of the Provincial District Administration on the gasification of the home of the disabled widow of the Great Homeland War and the group — the village of the city of the Great Crown region of the Žitomir region. GREGORY TO THE Head of the State Tax Administration on the verification of the misconduct of the personnel of the tax police in Donetsk and the release of the guilty officials from the tax police. The National Deputy CHELNOKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the destruction of the island monument in the city of Boyarka Kyiv district. Anatolia NALIWAYKA, Vladimir PUZAKOVA to the acting prime minister of Ukraine, Mikli Azarov, for the payment of debts on the salaries of employees of a combination of solid alloys and dreary metals in the city of Svetłovodska Kirovograd. Jury CARMAZINA, Viacheslav KOVALA and others to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of corruption, the abuse of power, the excess of authority, the head of the General Directorate for Judicial Reform, the activities of military formations, the law enforcement agencies as a substitute for the head of the Ukraine’s Presidential Administration, and the application of measures to transfer his oath to the Constitutional Court for verification of the facts. MIKOLI POLIŠKU to the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal collection of money from Ukrainian citizens in carrying out diagnostic tests at state and municipal property establishments. Thus, honourable colleagues, 49 parliamentary inquiries were made. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 12, Communist faction - 13, "Ukrainian Regions" - 1, Ukraine-Democratic Social Party - 1, "One Ukraine" - 3, "Trudova Ukraine" - 4, National Agrarian - 3, Socialist Party - 4, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 8. Dear colleagues, let us now move on to the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and factions. Yeah, I can see that. You have, it's just a note. We need to get all the documents we need. It's just a note. Please prepare everything according to the Rules. Vadim Gurov, the deputy faction of "The One Ukraine" has the floor for the performance. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u2	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Dear colleagues, respectable radio audiences, I have just received anxious, complete despair and justified anger at power. The third month of the working group of the Preshrovrava mine is not paid. I emphasize that no payment has been made for the hard work of miners. It's a collective, 300 people. Everyone celebrates, all Ukraine celebrates, walks, enjoys, a revolutionary rise. And there, in the town of Krivom Roge, 300 workers, their families sit without a penny. You know it's not the pots that have millions on the book. They have nothing but current wages. And these are the children, these are their families, these are the fathers and the mothers and the pensioners. So let's model out three times who they voted for and what their mood is in this election campaign. I mean, they've cursed the bones of this power because you can't live like this anymore. But what is characteristic? And that's what the Ukrainians are doing, supporting the mine's capacity. We're the only ones who can do that. And now the main lifts aren't good enough, the work on them is forbidden. But they're working. And I'm asking the director, how can you send the miners back to their deaths? He says, "What can I do?" So don't you, General, realize there's no other way? Stop, stop, stop! That's how the mine sinks. Well, let go of the top! What are you taking your life for? If one of the pots is even wounded, it'll be your fault. And everyone's worried, no matter what. It's definitely gonna come out. So, Director General, I advise you as a former deputy. Chief Labour Protection Engineer for four years: immediately cease work. Then there will be Azarov, and the Minister, who is currently holding the outcome. Bringing up the results, everything will be there. Because you can't go on like this. You see, there's a budget line of 15 million. Only 11. And now there's not enough 900 grand for these poachers to get paid. Think about it: For three months, people don't get paid. And this is the result of the privatization of Krudprom. The tops took everything, and the water and mines left the state. This will, of course, be the next serious statement, and for now, Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u3	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko from the faction of our Ukrainian block. Get ready for Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u4	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! On behalf of our faction, I would like to point out that the situation of maximum delaying the final outcome of the President's election, I mean the trial in the Supreme Court, allows not only the previous speaker but also other colleagues from the recent parliamentary majority Leonid Kuchma and Viktor Yanukovich to talk about the plight of the ordinary Ukrainian people now. I would like to officially state that today Leonid Kuchma and his team are fully responsible for everything that is going on in the country. And thanks to Viktor Yanukovic and his team, this responsibility and the right to make decisions has been extended for a period of time because of the Supreme Court’s consideration of the matter. We are, of course, pleased that Viktor Janukovic has moved from Moscow to Europe and asks the European Court to consider his questions. Such a geopolitical definition of European Yanukovic as a future opposition, we think is very positive. But I'd like to point out that and, I don't know if we're asking if we're asking Leonid Kuchma to stop his active activity because he only signed more than 30 to 31 orders on the night and from 31 to the first. He hasn't worked so actively in 10 years of the presidency. During this period, he appointed dozens of people to serve. And I'd like to ask Victor Medvedchuk if he has a conscience and is responsible to these people who are assigned to the government for a few weeks today, because everyone knows very well that a new government will be formed. Is there an understanding that those who are appointed prime ministers when ministries change are people who are thrown away for a certain period of time? Does everyone understand that what is happening today is "deriban" all over Ukraine and officials live, like on the last day, these are things that are going to be directly analyzed by law enforcement agencies, and these things are going to have to be held accountable? I understand Victor Medvedchuk: he wants to get his colleagues to work in the last period. This is the last time his deputy becomes a member of the Constitutional Court, I believe he is at all. This is a challenge in this system of power when one person decided without consent to make a person a member of the Constitutional Court, the highest judicial institution in Ukraine. That's why we're paying attention and asking Leonid Kuchma today to prepare statutory papers and actively work on his fund "Ukraine" and not once again asking all of us and citizens to think about how to review and reverse those decisions that are taking place both against the people and against the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u5	Yes, Victor Terrence of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. To prepare Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u6	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear friends! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko welcomes you, dear citizens of Ukraine, with a brilliant victory in Victor Yushchenk's presidential election. This is your victory, dear friends! It is the victory of the future over the dark earth, the victory that will soon be felt by each of you alone and at his own level of life and in the spiritual, clean, and enlightened atmosphere of the entire nation. Janukovich's headquarters with this, let me put it this way, the president of powerful talent, where there are no more well-thinking people left, the movements that he and his team are doing today are different, sorry than the diagnosis can't be called. Why did they delay all this shameless labor with completely unproven and unwarranted thousands of complaints against the court, which in them and their leader saved the egg, what happened? And I want you to know, honourable citizens, it's being done to delay Yushchenk's admission to the presidency. To steal, to stretch, to rob, to rob, to rob, to rob. In addition, it is customary to assign the names of academics, physicians of mumps, whites, and the like. But our faction is convinced, as you are convinced, that the Supreme Court will not go to the real forgers of the elections and a fair point will be placed in the unprecedented marathon of presidential elections in Ukraine. And I want to go to our temporary prosecutor's office at the same time, because when more than 200 criminal cases have been instituted by Janukovich and his team, I have a question to ask the Interim Prosecutor's Office: why they are not brought to trial. And I want to say that we're peaceful people, we're not demanding total revenge, but I want to stress that the re-run of the elections that took place through all these forgings cost the state hundreds of millions of dollars, hundreds of millions of dollars from the pockets of pensioners, the disabled, who are so hypocritically cared for by Yanukovich and his team. And for that, you have to put a dot in the court and have Kiwalov and the company answer by law and have to be there where and so on for similar crimes. I would like to welcome you once again, dear citizens of Ukraine. I mean, it goes back to the time when Ukraine was a country we were ashamed of. I am convinced that Ukraine is becoming a state where the name "Ukrainen" will sound proud, honest and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u7	Sergey Tereshuk, from the faction of the National Agrarian Party, is invited to prepare Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u8	Sergey Tereshuk, Faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Cherkaszczina Dear colleagues, in recent years, the situation in the agro-industry complex, as statistics have shown, has been somewhat stabilized, the lower crop yield of grains has been improved in the processing industry, in the food industry, but all of this is not encouraging to peasants, and in the end agricultural enterprises have not become stronger. This year, the number of profitable farms will increase, and rural wage levels remain more than twice as low as in other industries. Every year, the social sphere in the countryside declines. Consider for yourself: Only 5 out of 100 rural residents have access to centralized heating, only 1 out of 10 water lines, only 1 out of every 3 gasses. In one of the 100 homes there is hot water, in none of the 9,000 villages that had no health facilities has improved so much, even unopened. In 10 years, the rural population decreased by more than 1 million. More than 300 locations have disappeared from the map of Ukraine. There is no doubt that serious and systemic support is needed to solve these problems. Unfortunately, a number of bills were adopted during the last year by farmers themselves. And the last one to receive the symbolic name 6363 was waiting for the peasants more than ever. The faction of the People's Agrarian Party wants to express its gratitude today to the other factions who supported this bill, which enabled the peasants to work in the same tax way as in 2004. Of course, the further way to tax is to find compromises. But he must be accompanied by the high responsibility of the authorities for making decisions. I remind you that three weeks ago on this tribune, I had to draw Minfin's attention to the underfunding of the agrarian sector. Important programs, such as the supplement to a young man’s implementation, the maintenance of loan repayments, were under threat. Moreover, our application was an official request to the Cabinet of Ministers. But the Cabinet of Ministers responded only on January 6th, directing the call to places. At the same time, along with the oral order of the Ministry, a directive was given to keep the money out of the way, of the 350 million who went to the village, almost 200 million were returned to Kiev. Is that what you would call constructive cooperation with the government? So our faction has been set up to continue to work, to seek compromises with the implementation of the Budget Resolution and the Law on State Support for Rural Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u9	Alexander Masenko of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has a word for his speech. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u10	Thank you. I received a lot of letters, and the calls came that on December 24, last year, at a meeting of the Supreme Council in the section of the "different" deputy Bulba, commenting on an article by the first secretary of the Zenkov Paradise Company of Ukraine of the Poltava Region, he made a large number of accusations at the Communist Party's address, particularly because the Company supported the elections of Yanukovic. I also read a transcript of the performance, since I was not in the room at the time, and I declare that there is absolutely no appeal or agitation for Yanukovic in this article. It is simply that the author calls on voters to make conscious choices and to whom they entrust their destiny and the fate of their children. And why did this article come to the fore, perhaps, is explained by the level of its perception of what is now taking place in Ukraine. Not Bulby, in my opinion, to judge the mistakes of the Communist Party. And to the extent that we're not hiding, yes, we're making mistakes. In Soviet times, the Communist Party made one of the biggest mistakes that came into its ranks was "cowchucks" and "dogs" and "plums" and such as "bows" who betrayed the Communist Party at the first breath of the changing wind. Because at the same time, the Bulba sought so many ways of serving as secretary to the party of the Zenitno-Artillery School of Poltava and gained it. And it may not be sincere, but it did promote Lenin's ideas, Communist ideas, while it was convenient for him. And when there was no profit, he began criticizing the Communist Party. And there is also a mistake after the activity has been restored. We made every effort to make the head of the fraternal party the Supreme Council. And then he didn't sign the Supreme Council's decree to abolish the ruling of the Ukrainian Communist Party. When the fraternal party’s faction was virtually broken down. We sent our Communist deputies there to save us from total destruction, and now our brothers saved us every day are pouring a lot of dirt on us. The Communists did the right thing or the wrong thing, and the time will tell. I'm sure it's the right thing to do. The Bulba is very concerned that the Communists will not go to the future parliament. Would it be better than this Ukrainian nation? I don't care about that. There was no Bulba in Parliament, there was no bad people, there was a Bulba -- even worse because this policy is being pursued in the state. Not socialists, not communists. And that's what everyone needs to understand. And we must not criticize from the rostrum, but do all things to keep living.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u11	Thank you, thank you. Igor Mikhailovich Šurma from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. [[united]] John Boki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u12	The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine draws the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament and especially the Ukrainian society to a very important problem in our view, caused by the so-called Orange Revolution. [[united]] Solid, hasty, and especially important is the frank recoloureding of some Ukrainian media. We are not inclined to accept the declared voluntary nature of such metamorphosis in the media space, because in most cases the real underlying of total transformations is the pain of banal things, such as business interests of some real media owners, more specifically, their fear of being subjected to the repression of a new democracy. To be honest, they have every reason to be afraid. Even this hall has witnessed promising performances, not to mention the constant upheaval of society by talking about redistribution of property or the kind of desire for leaders of the new ideology by illustration. And what's unfortunate is that the calls for illustrations sound in the journalist's own condition as regards journalists. The faction evaluates what's called all of this as a rough cynical pressure on mass media. The result of this pressure, our strong conviction, was that the Ukrainian media were completely recoloured. Today we have such realities of being in the information space, such as giving a live broadcast to comment on social and state events exclusively to representatives, as it were, of winners or a constant and extensive demonstration of the whole public position, with the sole loyalty of programme managers or journalists. If such approaches to reporting are now viewed as indicators of democratic quality, they are a kind of attempt for journalism, society can only be shown sympathy. If previously appealed to so-called "darks," today this term has no doubt become part of Ukrainian being with only one clarification: for now we are indeed dealing with "darks", but orange. Society today is witness to nothing but the strengthening of orange censorship and self - censorship. The journalist will think a hundred times, with the punitive sword of illustration over his head, of the prospect of getting a negative response from the new "gour" from journalism, and that's what we've come up with. The great leaders of the new media standards, who have acquired the right to judge and judge. The faction emphasizes that society is under pressure today. There are attempts to impose, in fact, a new approach to media activity, so new that professional standards and technological mechanisms of journalism go awry. To convince the faction, the situation in the media requires, not simple actions such as discolouration, but systemic reforms. The direction of reform is, we believe, to determine, first of all, the journalists themselves. In particular, the faction is ready to support all intelligent initiatives on this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u13	Ivan Sidorovich Boki of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. The next one will be by Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u14	I'm authorized to announce a statement by our parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. "The presidential electoral campaign in Ukraine, announced in advance by the ruling regime 'dirty', revealed trends that pose a national threat to the state. The polytechnologists of the predominant constituency and some other political forces, such as those invited from abroad, pulled out of the history dumpster and raised the shield as the fear of mass manipulation, such ideological rarities of the totalitarian era as the threat of fascism and machre nationalism. While there is no early threat to these phenomena in Ukraine, the adepts of the clan-oligarchy regime glued these labels to all democratic forces and to the opposition in general. All of this has been incorporated into the practice of dividing society and the political forces that the regime uses during its reign. Regrettably, some left forces, including Communists, have used this vested arsenal of ideological clichés in history. Even the Socialist Party has been accused of belonging to an enemy nation of forces. It is an outright slander of the most consistent opposition, which manifests the ideas of social justice, real internationalism and patriotism, promotes good neighbourly relations with Russia, takes a stately position, and does not stain itself with the regime of corrupters and oligarchs. The government, communists and some marginal political structures, their media outlets have spread outright lies about the betrayal of socialists, American money, anti-the rapprochement of Ukraine and Russia, and so forth. In fact, this whole campaign, which is going on, is now called upon to deceive the people, to preserve the power of the clans, to sow enmity between people, regions, and religious religions. By impaling people against the opposition, facing the foreheads of supporters of various political movements, killing in their heads the fear of violence and terror, exploiting brotherly feelings of a large part of the population toward Russia, artificially creating a social conflict, power and political forces that brought them together, deliberately broke the state and nation apart, there was a real threat to the existence of the Ukrainian State. This is a direct violation of the Constitution, of its articles in the second, 17th, 37th and of article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The Socialist faction condemns the actions of the authorities and certain political forces that lead to the division of Ukrainian society and believes that they need not only political but also legal evaluation by the Henprocurator and the Security Service. We call on the political forces to abandon the use of black propaganda techniques and techniques, stop the tide of lies, manipulate people's minds, and the law enforcement agencies react promptly to violations of the law in this area. We need to preserve the unity of the nation and the nation that we have so dearly received, which is being destroyed by adventurers of various kinds, to keep Ukraine from slipping into permanent civil conflicts and criminalizing political life.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u15	Jehovah’s Witnesses, 5 / 22 3 In connection with the dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request, the word is given by Yuri Solomatin. All necessary documents to obtain the right to speak with a national deputy are submitted to the Presidency. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u16	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues and distinguished radio listeners! Election battalions took place when almost all candidates for the Ukrainian Presidents promised the Russian-speaking citizens of Ukraine, primarily from the east, north and south, to settle issues with the status of Russian as official or even national. At the same time, this issue has been very limited with ratification in March 2004 right here in the sessional room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the European Charter, which has not yet been deposited, unfortunately, in the Council of Europe, that is to say, it has not entered into force. I have repeatedly called on the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to provide appropriate explanations and explanations, and these contained such an answer, to have someone answer the question, which body of central executive power and to coordinate the actions of the other organs of the central executive branch. Second, the 2005 budget provides adequate funds for the implementation of this charter. And third, only then can there be an act of deposit, i.e. sending the relevant letter to the Council of Europe and depositing it with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. After that, this charter will be considered to be accepted and the Council of Europe can control its implementation in Ukraine. Unfortunately, until now, Kabin has not answered my questions when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine will finally be referred to the Council of Europe of the Gramota on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or the minority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Some money was provided in the 2005 budget, but my requirement to provide general information about how much money was spent and to whom it was intended to be done, I did not receive it either. That is, for almost a year now, Ukraine and Kabmin have been ignoring the procedure for unclear reasons, without which the introduction into force of the European Charter in Ukraine is virtually artificial, stressing, artificially inhibited. That is why I, my distinguished colleagues, ask your support and again demand from the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to immediately implement the procedure for submitting to the Council of Europe the Gramota for ratification of the European Charter by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! All applications made by MPs and factions have been used. Let us turn to Wednesday’s meeting schedule. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Italian Republic is being announced for consideration. Reported by the Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr. Nadjajchenko Valentin Aleksandrovich. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is on his way to report to the Deputy Minister. Please be prepared by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u18	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Italian Republic is proposed. The Consular Convention was signed on December 23, 2003, in Kiev. As a result of the fact that the convention increases the status of our diplomats, expands their rights and increases the legal status of Ukrainian citizens in Italy. Besides.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u19	Yes. Please, there is a possibility, speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u20	In addition, the Consular Convention is based on the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and greatly strengthens the activities of our embassies and consulates in Melanie. The ratification of the Consular Convention does not require any additional expenditure from the State budget, and accordingly would ask you, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, to support the draft Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u21	Yes. Thank you, Valentin Alexanderovich. Is there a question? Please sign up for three minutes. There will be questions. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u23	Vladimir Mikhailovich, they gave me their word. Vladimir Yavorowski. Your Honor, as a national deputy, I have a lot of problems: a lot of people from my constituency travel to Italy for a living, this is western Ukraine, you know. And it is very common that either people disappear untraceablely, or they have long lost contact with their family, and they turn to the deputy for help. Well, what can a deputy do to help, to address you, or to foresee this Convention, should you be able to resolve these painful problems a little?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u24	Thank you. This convention foresees a simplified way of turning diplomats now into regional authorities in Italy, for example, the most problematic region, thanks to you, we know that this is the southern region of Italy and in the near future, you know what decisions will open up a consular institution in Naples, with the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is this convention that expands the mandate of this future consular institution in these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u25	Alexeyev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u26	The Communist faction, Alexeyev. Dear Valentin Alexandrovich, our faction certainly supports the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Italian Republic, my question will touch something else. You know the statements that came out of the State Department a few days ago regarding the withdrawal of a Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from the Republic of Iraq. Is the MIP going to react in some way to the practical intervention, in our view, in the internal affairs of Ukraine, virtually ignoring the positions of Parliament chosen by the people on the urgent withdrawal of the Ukrainian contingent from Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. You know that both the Ministry of Peacekeeping Operations and other central executives of Ukraine are now tasked with developing a plan for the withdrawal of a peacekeeping contingent. The measures envisaged and used by both the Ministry and our embassies are also a mechanism of consultation. And standing up, of course. the position that will be approved as the state position of Ukraine. Thus, we will act and comment on such actions accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u28	Eugene Gorenik, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u29	Eugene Gorenik, Valley Election District. Dear reporter, I also have a lot of voters in Italy. I have data that during the presidential election there were problems for Ukrainians with the vote. And I also have quite a lot of references about bringing to Ukraine, for example, those people who died there, searching and things like that. So my question is a little bit resonating with the question of Vladimir Yavorowski. How and will this convention help to solve problems for our citizens by voting and their problems with moving to Ukraine, with funerals, and other things?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u30	Thank you. With regard to the voting process itself, we are certainly guided by the laws of Ukraine. Therefore, this convention is not directly affected. This convention, I repeat a little bit, affects that we can open up consular institutions more widely and work more widely with the Italian authorities, not with the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So in this part, it certainly expands our capabilities, including expanding opportunities for Ukrainian citizens to reach the Ukrainian institution, whether it's a consular institution or an embassy. In particular, with regard to the provision of assistance to Ukrainian citizens, the greater the emergency situation, the more we thank you for this year, the budget provides that the State can provide material aid, including in tragic cases where we return people who have unfortunately died, including in Italy. As far as all such requests made by citizens are concerned, we satisfy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u31	Valentino Alexandrovich, thank you, time's up. Have a seat, please. Stanislaw Telisforovich Staszewski, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the bill. The Consular Convention defines the functions of consular officials, and it will enhance the effectiveness of consular institutions in protecting the rights and interests of our state, the physical and legal persons of Ukraine abroad. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee on Legal Policy, Construction, Transport, Housing, Communications, Budget, Economic Policy and Governance Support. Our committee has considered, supports the proposal to bring this bill to the Supreme Council so that it can be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A committee proposal shall be put to the vote. May I have your attention, please? Concerning the approval of the draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Italian Republic as a law. Registration number 0211. Please vote. [[10:51:55]] For 344 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? At the request of the national deputies of Ukraine, I am making an announcement, please! In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbato Valeri Mironović, from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Next. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Coloniary of Alexander Petrovic from the faction "Region of Ukraine". A draft Law on the Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between Ukraine and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the Application of Safeguards in relation to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is under consideration. Reporter: Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Committee Grishenko Vadim Vasilovich. Please, Vadim Vasilovich. Prepare to report to the head of the Staszewski Committee, Stanislav Telisforovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is drawn to the draft Law ratifying the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between Ukraine and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the Application of Safeguards in relation to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The additional protocol was signed in Vienna by the Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the international organizations on behalf of Ukraine on August 15, 2000. An additional protocol aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and effectiveness of the nuclear non-proliferation regime. Its application enables us to demonstrate the activity involved in the creation of nuclear weapons at the initial stage. In accordance with this international safeguards regime, the State undertakes to provide additional information to MAGATA on plans for scientific research and development in the nuclear fuel cycle, on the production of dual-use goods, such as the production of zirconium pipes, heavy water, granite, fuel containers and so on. On export and import of nuclear technology, on installations that are related to the nuclear fuel cycle. The additional protocol provides for access to appropriate facilities in Ukraine by MAGATE inspectors. As of 1 November this year, 86 countries have signed an additional protocol, and the protocol has become effective in 59 countries, including the countries of the European Union. More and more countries of the world are moving into a new safeguards regime, and Ukraine, as a state with significant nuclear activity, cannot remain apart from this process. Moreover, the application of such a protocol as the premeditated supply of nuclear materials and technologies has been repeatedly violated by a group of nuclear suppliers, and we need to be prepared to adopt such an international standard. And for Ukraine this is very important as for the country of import of nuclear fuel for nuclear stations. and nuclear technology. The ratification of the Additional Protocol once again demonstrates the consistency of our State with regard to the regime for the peaceful use of nuclear energy and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I see there are questions. Please sign in. Three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who are enrolled for questions. Yes, please, Eugene Gorenik, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u36	Dear Vadim Vadimovich! Well, that's very good. We sign a lot of different protocols on these materials, and then the President says that under the nuclear program, after the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, foreign representations, foreign states do not fulfil their obligations. We've been given nuclear weapons -- again, we've got a lot of crying and complaints that someone's not doing anything to us. I would like us to sign contracts in such a way that if someone were to make some compensation for the closure of the Chernobyl station, we should demand it through the appropriate international courts, not to cry that someone is not doing something, and to take money from the Ukraine budget. Does not the signing of this convention provide for the same situations, and will it lead to the same deafness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u37	Thank you, Mr. Eugene. You raise important questions about the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations and so do the international community’s obligations on those issues. But it's an international guarantee regime, it applies to a few other things. This regime is based on an agreement on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, according to which we have already made certain commitments. And it is an additional protocol that deepens this situation, and it becomes particularly important right now when there is a threat of the creation and use of nuclear explosive devices by international terrorist organizations. So I think this is very important for both the international regime and Ukraine separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u38	Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Solomatin, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u40	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u41	Thank you very much. Honourable Vadime Vasilovich, the United States, along with the European Union, accused long - suffering Iraq of having weapons of mass injury, which was an official reason for their invasion of Iraq. It's been over a year. They've been looking, looking -- and lately there's been a general report that even some trace not only of the weapons of mass destruction, but of the radioactive substances -- is there. Please tell me, do you know any new information on the existence of radioactive substances, and more weapons of mass destruction in Iraq? And the second. What must we do to make sure that those who invade Iraq go home? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. Of course, the verification issue just as it was in Iraq is unacceptable. With the use of weapons. But I would like to point out that MAGATE, and especially MAGATE's CEO, Mr. Elberadei, took the principle position, and they didn't go to the United States, and they warned that the inspectors didn't find any trace of nuclear activity in Iraq. And today, when the international director's election is scheduled. The director of the international agency, the Americans are dissatisfied and are proposing another person. So what do we do? I think you've already made up your mind about getting out yesterday, so I'm sure it'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u43	Yes, Vadim Vasilovich, thank you, time is up. Have a seat, please. Mr. Stanislaw Telisforovich, please, head of the Committee. With motive? For what reason? Question time's up. Stanislaw Telisforovich, please. Well, then you'll take it from motive. How can it be so simple?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u44	Dear National Deputies! We've considered the bill on the committee. I would just like to add that the ratification of the Additional Protocol is also envisaged in the action plan for the implementation of the priority provisions of the "Intervention of Ukraine into the European Union" programme, which is why the Main Scientific and Experimental Administration and the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex and on Environmental Policy, and on the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, as well as on national security issues, support the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this document? Is it? They signed up for us. On the board is the name of the national deputies who are registered. Light up, please. Yuri Carmazin. Let's have a discussion within 12 minutes and make a decision. Yuri Carmazin, please. Ah, Yuri Carmazin is taking off his claims for the performance. Vladimir Puzakov, please, the Communist faction. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u46	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The further movement in world nuclear disarmament today is entirely dependent on the goodwill of the nuclear powers. Ukraine, giving up its third nuclear power in the world, has gone a long and difficult way from a nuclear power to a nuclear - free country. Unfortunately, nuclear disarmament has now gone into a dead end. At present, there are fairly broad opportunities for practical steps in the nuclear disarmament spheres that are entirely dependent on the goodwill of the nuclear powers. Their implementation is more real than the path through the extensive elimination or prohibition of the use of nuclear weapons. An additional protocol signed in 2000 is part of the MAGATE programme, which was launched by the agency in 1993 and aimed at creating a new regime for the application of nuclear non-proliferation safeguards. Under the new safeguards regime, the State declares all its nuclear activities to the Agency. In view of the large number of central executive bodies, enterprises of various forms of ownership involved in the implementation of the Additional Protocol, it is necessary to develop and approve an appropriate legal act in order to determine the order of the assembly and the granting by the holders for the examination and dispatch of information to an agency that is within the competence of the various ministries. Thus, the implementation of the additional protocol will lead to an increase in information provided to the Ukrainian nuclear agency. As more and more countries of the world move into a new safeguards regime, Ukraine, as a state with significant nuclear activity, cannot remain separate from speeding up the ratification of the protocol. Ukraine's support for the new safeguards regime will testify to the sequencing of our nation's peace-loving policies, and thus further delaying the ratification of the protocol will only trigger a negative attitude towards Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u47	The word has the national deputy of Yavorowski. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u48	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski Jovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, the document that we have to ratify, which will immediately fit into the system of Ukrainian legislation, is not a serial document. After the tragedy of the Chernobyl, the technological tragedy of the 20th century, this document means double, triple, fourth and so on. Ukraine voluntarily folded, disarmed and surrendered nuclear weapons after the incident in Ivano-Frankivsky with Viktor Yanukovic, I think that Ukraine has laid eggs, because it is a very dangerous, very dangerous weapon that paralyzes many people and for a long time excludes, in my opinion, their intelligence from normal functioning, we must think beyond our will, what else should we give in order to become a civilized Ukrainian state? And despite everything else, using what is here as representatives of our nuclear intelligence, obviously we should be thinking today, I just haven't been able to ask questions to you, my dear colleague, we obviously should be in charge of the new authority that will be responsible to the people to ask questions about that, and what should we do with those nuclear garbage disposals that we left in this 30-mile zone so succinctly today, they're very often washed away by groundwater, and you know better than me that the Chernobyl nuclear station was built in a crime scene that we can just think of, there's absolutely no granite shield on which Ukraine stands. This is Polissio and it's not ruled out by a breakthrough in this water above the surface of the groundwater in the underground, and these waters are infected, so I understand very well that the traditional guarantees have exhausted themselves. And indeed, there must be new guarantees. But on the other hand, let's redesign the programs, because Kuchma is going to walk away, of course, infamously, but along with him, we're going to walk away with some kind of verbal or promise, because they're nowhere fixed on whether the world is going to help us cope with this colossal disaster. Because, of course, this document has to be ratified, it has to be included in our Ukrainian legislation, but on the other hand, I am in favour of our authorities responsible for this today working out some of the most important ways in which we need to get rid of those nuclear wastes, to solve the problem of where we are going to dump nuclear wastes from nuclear power stations so that Russia can accept them in a stable manner. So this is a huge problem, but this document needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Alexandrovska Alla, a faction of Communists, prepare for Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the very important issue that we are considering for Ukraine. I would like to inform you that, almost all the years since 1991, and especially since Ukraine has undertaken certain international obligations, Ukraine has strictly complied with them, is an open State to monitor nuclear activities. Therefore, those instruments that have been ratified so far are being strictly implemented by us and there are no comments from international organizations in Ukraine. However, I would ask today not to rush into ratifying the additional protocol of the agreement with MAGATE. There are a number of reasons that make us take this more closely. Again and again, look at the implications of the signing and ratification of this additional protocol. Those documents distributed to you today claim that the signature of the additional protocol does not seem to impose on Ukraine any additional activities that will require funding from the budget. Indeed, the note provided to us by the Cabinet of Ministers and ministries states that all these costs will be allocated to funds allocated to the activities of public authorities. However, I would like to point out that, on the other hand, for enterprises of non-State ownership, these costs will come at the cost of the products, goods and services produced. It is only here in the Hall that we have talked recently about the immeasurable gravity of our enterprise, and yet today we are calmly going to ratify a treaty that will further aggravate the situation of business. I want to ask you another question. The need for the signing of the protocol to encourage international organizations to assist Ukraine in the closure of the Chernobyl station is a welcome moment for ratification. I wish to tell you that these commitments have not been fulfilled, have not been fulfilled, and there is no guarantee that they will be fulfilled after the ratification of this Protocol. I'm paying attention to that, too. There is such an argument for ratification that the ratification of this protocol would lead to obstacles for those terrorist organizations that could use nuclear technology. I want to tell you, there are no organizations in Ukraine that show that we have attempts to use nuclear technologies for such purposes. I therefore invite Parliament today not to ratify this additional protocol, to abstain, to deal with the financial aspects that will arise after its ratification and with the real issues that we will be required to undertake in Ukraine after the ratification of this protocol. Let's get to the point first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u51	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Soccer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u52	Vitaly Šibko, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovština Dear colleagues, it's about ordinary things. Always, if we join a treaty, and it is a treaty that has already ratified Ukraine by law since 17.12.1997, there may be some additional material here. And each state has the right to consider the need to maintain these additional materials by joining them. Accordingly, I want to explain to our listeners what else is going on, Ukraine should provide more information on its nuclear activities to the MAGATE inspectors and should provide access to all sites in the territory of Ukraine where nuclear material has been declared, as well as in institutions that have been removed from operation. In addition, in response to the MAGATE request, during the month, it is proposed that the MAGATE inspectors be given access to any place in Ukraine where nuclear materials may be available. In fact, a system of monitoring Ukraine's nuclear activities is being created with the appointment of appropriate councils and inspectors in the MAGATE structure. The international organization, for its part, guarantees that information will not be distributed. Looking back on the geopolitical plan, a system of monitoring international organizations is being set up that is some kind of barrier to unilateral action by the superpowers in relation to Ukraine. That is, the United States is Iraq. Therefore, the ratification of the Protocol will promote national security interests. But, indeed, there were also critical remarks about the need to comply with these conditions and to join the Additional Protocol. For example, the international organization does not assume financial and advisory obligations in the event that the use of nuclear materials by Ukraine is not appropriate in order to remedy these deficiencies. That is to say, what is being done and what action should be taken by an international organization is not responding. And taking into account the experience of financing the Chernobyl AES facility by international structures for the inability to finance Ukraine's own work on the creation and operation of similar objects alone, there is a question of implementing the MAGATE Inspectors' Resolution in the future. Will Ukraine be able to find opportunities to do so? Therefore, the faction agrees with us to ratify the Protocol, because it is in the interest of national interests, provided that the negotiations with MAGATE continue on the cost-sharing of nuclear material in Ukraine, as decided by the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The cloud, please, for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u54	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland party. The Julia Tymoshenko faction will not vote in favour of the ratification of the Additional Protocol, and I believe and urge all national MPs to refrain from ratifying until international organizations and states fulfil their obligations. First, with regard to ensuring the proper functioning of the 1994 Budapest Charter, as well as the obligations related to the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, we thus make additional commitments, plus financial costs, informational, as it were, to reveal our technological secrets and so forth, and our partners do not take on commitments, and even those that have taken on them do not. So I urge you not to ratify an additional protocol today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u55	Taking into account the exchange of views, I am voting on a draft law on the ratification of an additional protocol to the agreement between Ukraine and international nuclear energy agencies on the application of safeguards in connection with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Bill number 0215. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:16:15.]] For-125 The bill was rejected. The draft law on the ratification of an agreement on the cooperation of States parties to the cooperation of independent states on the return of minors to the State of their permanent residence is being complied with. First Deputy Interior Minister Mikhailo Vasilovich Korniyenko will report. Prepare for the Staszewski Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The agreement is aimed at creating the legal conditions necessary to coordinate our State's cooperation with its member States in the search and return of minors, the protection of rights and legitimate interests, and the prevention of juvenile delinquency, and accordingly. After ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1991, our nation assumed a commitment to the world society to ensure the rights of the child in accordance with internationally recognized standards. The acquisition of validity for Ukraine of the Agreement on the Return of Minors to the State of Their Permanent Circumstances, first of all, will allow to simplify and accelerate the organization of co-operation with regard to the adoption, transfer and return of minors deprived of parental care, to places of permanent residence and their entry through the State border; secondly, it will contribute to the fuller protection of the rights and legitimate interests of minors in the State, to the enhancement of the authority of Ukraine as a humanistic and democratic State; and thirdly, it will not require additional financial costs for our State and its content of expenditure will be provided within the limits of the funding allocated to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and other competent authorities of the Central Executive. This issue is regulated by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Fourthly, it will not be necessary to adopt new and amend existing legislation in Ukraine. The exchange of information between States regarding minors will allow for the timely establishment of a detained teenager and the dispatch of him to the territory of permanent residence, as well as the effective conduct of searches for the persons involved. And in the end, this treaty has no political color and does not violate the sovereignty of the state and does not give rise to interference in its internal affairs, nor does it contain any provision that is contrary to the current legislation of Ukraine. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u57	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Is that clear? Any questions? Then sign up, please. Three minutes. Please explain. Bondarenko. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u58	Dear reporter! Vladimir Bondarenko, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. The very text of the covenant is unknown to us, unfortunately. We have already had the practice of considering a similar type of document in the presence of such an agreement. I wonder, for example, how the rights of refugee children, who, for example, arrived in Ukraine, were granted refugee status, and then the parents died or died or disappeared. How these children will be. Who's gonna take care of them? The country of residence or the country of origin that they came from? How can they return home? It's within the SND. It's getting pretty wide in practice, and I don't see this process, I don't understand the mechanism that can ensure the rights of these children, and much more. I'm going to speak, I'm going to talk about it, but I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u59	Dear Volodymyr Dmitrovich, this agreement concerns two matters. It refers to those children who have committed a crime, are suspected of committing a crime, and are sought for the crime if they are in the territory of another State, and those who are unwarranted, that is, fleeing to the territory of another State. As far as refugee children are concerned, so are they if they are wanted or if they are caught in the receiver. The distribution factor for minors will also be expected and the fate that is governed by this covenant. The agreement was signed in Chisinau in 2002, signed by the leaders of 12 states and what you're saying about refugee children, these relationships are regulated by completely different international legal instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u60	Vladimir Dmitrovitch, probably because it was handed out a long time ago, is. In the documents we were given, this agreement is. It's just that it must have been a long time ago, and you didn't notice it. Yes, please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u61	Dear Michael Vasilovich, Ukraine is bordering on the east, this is the Commonwealth of Independent States, and it has borders from the west, this is the European Union. If you could please inform us how these are the issues we are dealing with with with the European Union and the West, if there are such agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u62	Thank you. We have agreements with several European states, and these issues are settled there by bilateral agreements. These agreements are some 20 or more, and these are governed by these bilateral agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u63	Mikhail Vasilovich, thank you. Time's up. Mr. Stanislav Telisforovich, please take the position of the committee on this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian Cabinet's draft Law on Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States on the Return of Minors to the State of Their Permanent Circumstances has been discussed at the Committee meeting and recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council. Ratification of the agreement is aimed at creating the legal conditions necessary for the coordination and cooperation of our State with the Member States of the Commonwealth on the return of minors, the protection of their rights and legitimate interests and the prevention of violations, both by minors and in relation to them. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committees: on the issue of law enforcement; on human rights, national minorities and inter-national relations; and on national security and defence and budget issues, they support. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u65	Thank you, Stanislav Tellisforovich. Dear colleagues! Do we need to discuss this document? They insist. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Let's give 10 minutes at least take then, if so. Get ready then, Bondarenko, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u66	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the quality of our documents. We have a document, a deal, but this document is in the form of an "agreement" as it was signed: "Agreement on the cooperation of States members of the Commonwealth." No one has done the translation of this agreement, well, we're a self-systian state, respected friends, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, unless it's possible in another independent state that you don't do a translation for Parliament, that's the first question of your inaction. And the second question is, thank God that's in Russian, because in Moldovan or Turkmen, we probably wouldn't have read it. Because it's 8, 10 countries. So, dear friends, the agreement was signed on October 7, 2002. On October 7, 2002, the third year came after the signature, and it worked for five years, which was not the question period for minors? And their mass. Turn on the broadcasts, see how young children are being searched for by the people themselves. Why was the Ministry sitting and silent, why didn't it make this deal, why didn't Prime Minister Janukovich notice it and do it? Why did he give us this covenant and the date of his weekend on July 15, and only August 2nd? In general, when it comes to whether a treaty is needed or not or is in the interests of national interests, by studying it, I want to say that it must be ratified, first. But to wish our right to the security authorities and to wish the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not to write as stated in article 11: “The parties to cooperation use the Russian language exclusively.” Well, you can't do that, reverend. Well, let's do it anyway, and now we need detention protocols, that's all. They're in the national language of these countries, and then they have to translate it all for you, you know. So you have to make some kind of warning here, something, something, and that's how it's going to be done. But in general, this needs to be done, because there is a mechanism here for how these people will be accompanied by minors into a state of permanent residence on return, transit, visas and other issues. Thank God, not yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u67	Vladimir Dmitrovitch Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine" faction has the floor to speak, to prepare Yuri Petrovich Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u68	Vladimir Bondarenko, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, Kiev. Dear friends, I would like to urge you to ratify this agreement, because any legal definition concerning children, wherever they are, whether in their own territory or in the territory of any neighbouring or non-neighbourly state, adds an opportunity to protect their rights. Because children's rights today are not just a problem of the countries that were part of the SND, and that is a global problem at all. Contacts and relations between different countries lead to both loss and acceptance in our territory of children who have not been sanctioned, including those who have committed certain acts that do not correspond to the national criminal legislation or the legislation of those States from which they came. But there are several problems that may need further development. First of all, the standardization of legislation regarding the age of children. We know that some countries, especially Asian countries, have very different standards, for example, in the part about getting married to a girl, there are age limits much lower than in other areas. Some crimes in this area, including marital affairs, may be recognized in one country as child crime, as well as in another as the normal actions of an adult who is allowed to marry, for example. There are many other problems. I would like to see the Ministry of Family and Youth involved in the implementation of this agreement. Regrettably, the ministry’s activities were largely political, electoral, and provost propaganda. I recently found myself in the hands of a book published by 70,000 copies, where Yanukovic is holding his hand, I think his grandson or a very similar child to him. And this is what Mrs. Longzhenko publishes, and today they are distributed in maternity homes in Kiev, other cities. I think we need to figure out why the public funds are the propaganda of the candidate. And the ministry is in this agreement it should definitely participate because there is a system of rehabilitation of children. Because this child who has committed a crime is a crime, wherever she does it, it is already to some extent something that needs the influence of psychologists, not just the militia. Therefore, if this agreement is to be implemented only by Mr. Bilokon, I have a problem whether after three days of drinking after winning Yanukovich will be able to adequately work with the child, or whether he has again the services that will provide adequate work. So I urge you to support this agreement, but on a national scale, we need to realize that it should not only be implemented by the militia. And about the cost of implementation. They're still necessary. The budget needs to be budgeted. These children need to be sent and received, and to do so they need funds. So this is to be predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u69	Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u70	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the bill is needed, it should be supported. It is supported by a faction of Communists, especially me personally. We'll vote yes. But I would like to draw our common attention to the fact that a draft law is set out for those who, if even someone were trying to find someone's hand, are very difficult to find. Indeed, from the East Ukraine borders with the SND countries and the corresponding document was signed several years ago by the leaders of the 12 nations in Chisinau. Unfortunately, only now will we ratify this Agreement. But I do not see and hope that no one in attendance sees any influence or hand of Moscow in this Agreement. On the other hand, Ukraine is bordering the West, and there are already more than 20 bilateral agreements with the countries of the European Union. And these agreements provide for the proper protection of children who have reached the territory of these countries. Indeed, the problem is extremely painful. Children. Let's think about it. The first part of these children, mentioned in this bill, committed crimes or offences and fled and searched for them. What would it take for a child from a parent’s home country, a beloved country of his or her Ukrainian daughter - in - law to flee to another foreign country — either east or west? Let us agree with you that the Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth has no doubt to join in carrying out the tasks provided for in the Agreement. And the second category of children are mindless, they didn't have any parents, but they ran away looking for a better destiny. Let's do with you in this part what happened yesterday or the day before yesterday in this room, when we were discussing a question that also touched the support and protection of children. Let's find him in our environment, Felix Edmundovich Dryzhinski, put him in charge of the Security Service, and assign him a number of tasks that are relevant to this department, to take care of the children. And then those problems and those issues that we're talking about in this Agreement, we hope not. I thank you for your attention. Let's support and ratify this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u71	Out of Shibko place, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u72	Thank you. A fast, socialist faction of Ukraine, Dniproperty. Dear colleagues, I think we should support this agreement, but we need to be guided not by the fact that it's Bilocone's department, but by the fact that it's the IMF. M.E.S. And the IMF, we need to understand well that it should take care of criminals. If the children are going somewhere, they may simply be traveling, traveling, and not necessarily being caught, tracked, and dragged by the police. So when we talk about this, and when we think about these things, we need to understand very well what the mentality of the police is today, or there, really, the rehabilitation services, these really are the teachers that have to work with these children. E. thinking may be necessary to create an organ to care for these children, as is done worldwide, and this should not necessarily be in the line of the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. At various approaches to this problem, all of us were united in the fact that such a covenant had the right to life. It really needs to be ratified. And I urge you to do it now. I am voting on a law on the ratification of an agreement on the cooperation of States parties to the partnership of independent states on the return of minors to the State of their permanent residence. Registration number of Bill 0216. Please vote. [[11:35:53]] For 239. The treaty has been ratified. Please, by the factions. The factions. “Our Ukraine” - 38, “Ukraine” - 1, Communist faction - 55, National Agrarian Party - 23, SDPU - 20, “Ukrainian One” - 8, SPO - 20, Timoshenko Block - 16, “Urrigible Ukraine-NPP” - 13, “Union” - 10, “Deminicatives” - 2, “Centre” - 14, “Postfactional 19. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the chapter. a re-examination with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. We've got a lot of bills here. Please, let's take a quick look at them. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service to Local Self - Government Authorities, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, is being obeyed. I invite you to speak to Chief of State Service, Motrenk Tim Valentinovich. From the committee to prepare Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u74	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine’s adopted Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 1, 2004, by the Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Government Authorities, offers the position of rural, village, city, city, district, headship to refer to the fourth category of positions in local self - government. The President of Ukraine notes the unacceptable changes that have been made, since his view is that their implementation will lead to a breakdown in the classification between rural, rural, urban, district and local authorities. First of all, this applies to the posts of secretaries of the appropriate rural, rural, urban, district council, which, if adopted, will be among the sixth category of posts. According to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, other laws of Ukraine empowering the Council’s Secretary are quite broad, important, and the gap between the categories to which their positions and positions of rural, rural, district, city of regional importance are related may have a negative impact on their status. Secondly, this applies to the positions of deputy heads of district councils. While remaining in the fifth category of office, they may exercise authority over the heads of the council in the absence of a head. That is, the deputy head of the district council, whose position is assigned to the fifth category of office, represents the common interests of the territorial communities of all villages, villages, cities of the region, whose heads are assigned under the draft law to the fourth category of posts. In connection with the talk, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Government Authorities proposes to be rejected by the President of Ukraine. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this proposal by the President of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Since the law was adopted on July 1, 2004, and the President's proposals were made on July 23, that same year, at the time that it passed, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government proposed a new regulation, raising the category of posts also for city, district, village, village, council and city council officials, taking into account the observation regarding the elimination of the gap between city, rural and village councils. In this regard, a new draft law introduced by the committee may be adopted in a new edition. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Okay, have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Ivan Vasilovich Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u76	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! You heard about the bill 3713. The committee considered it with the comments and suggestions of the President of Ukraine and disagreed with these proposals and proposed a new bill. The point is that the President proposed to reject the law and his proposal was based on the fact that the law violates the principle laid down as the basis for the qualification of positions in local governments. This is especially true of the positions of rural, rural, and urban heads. I mean, in translation. Move them from 5 to 4 categories. For help, I want to say that today the official salary of the heads of rural, rural, urban district subordination councils is below the minimum wage, which is now established in the state. This ratio in paying for the work of this mass category of organ managers and local self - government simply cannot be reconciled. The committee therefore suggests rejecting these remarks by the President and complements paragraph seven with a new text on the positions of deputy district officials, village, village heads, and council executives, moving them from the sixth category to the fifth, excluding them from the last category, that is, from the sixth category. Next. This issue has already been dealt with in Law 1055, on which the President of the three vetoes imposed and the law has not passed. With regard to the President's comments on the secretaries of the relevant councils: the rural, rural and urban subordination, the next bill that we will report will be reported by Deputy Orzhachowski, which removes this problem that the President speaks of in this bill. [[3599]] So the committee recommends rejecting the President's proposals, making the changes I've been talking about, and adopting the relevant draft law in the new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u77	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues! Please mobilize, we have to make a decision. The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. The committee proposes to accept it as a new edition. So in this order, I'm going to put it to a vote. Who's in favour of supporting the President's proposal and rejecting the bill? [[11:43:54]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Therefore, I would like to vote on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt, in a new edition, the Law of Ukraine amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Governmental Authorities, bill number 3713, please vote. [[11:44:35]] For 311 The bill was adopted in a new edition. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -91, "Ukraine" -14, Communists -59, People's Agrarian -23, Social-Democratic - 28, "One Ukraine" - 12, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, NDP, Hard Ukraine - 5, Union - 3, Democratic Initiatives - 10, Center - 10, Non-faction - 19. There is a question of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine with proposals by the President. Bill number 3599, reported Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, to prepare for the Committee of Orzhachovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the Chairman, the distinguished Ukrainian National Deputies, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, has already been considered in this Hall and it concerns two issues: the first problem is the fulfilment of the duties of the village, the city head after the permanent suspension of the election by direct vote in the next election and the second, the holding of elections in the outpost. In the first part of the Law, these functions are proposed by the secretary, the village, the city council, before the new election. This part contained comments signed by the President of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the status of secretary and the position of rural, rural, urban head. The second part of the proposal was to bring the standard into line. which were laid down in this Act, the Law on the Election of Deputies of Rural, Village, City Councils and Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Since it was in this law that the council itself was appointed instead of the election itself, and the Electoral Law provided for this function, that is the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The law stipulated that the election would be organized by the council itself, and the Electoral Law provided that the electoral commission system would do so. And so is the difference in election terms instead of the resulting one. In view of the fact that the profile committee has taken into account the second part relating to the adoption of two laws, the Law amending the Law on Local Self - Government and the Law on the Election of Deputies of Rural, Village, and City Councils, the Ministry of Justice considers it possible to fully support the drafting proposed today by the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u79	Thank you. Please take a seat, Alexander Volodymyrovich. From the Committee of the Under-Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Orzhachovsky Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u80	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear head, honourable parliamentarians. The Ukrainian Act on Change of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in June 2004. He envisaged to add to article 42 the mandate of a rural, rural, urban head to the position that, in the event of a permanent suspension of the authority of the head designated or the failure to exercise its powers of temporary headship, the secretary of the rural, rural, urban council shall exercise until the time of the appointment of the newly elected chief of the council. Yet, the President is no longer in agreement with the proposed law. The National Deputies, the Supreme Council's Scientific and Legal Office, have repeatedly stated that the President's lack of grounds for rejecting the new legislation adopted on 6 October 2004. Please tell us, who are the people in such a situation when there are no heads in the village to address, rather than the secretary? For documents to be prepared to consult, and to normally arrange for the work to be done during the election of the new chairman of the council. Because the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, does not determine who should perform headship duties when the latter resigns or otherwise. In such cases the work of local self - government authorities is impossible and virtually ceases in practice. In other words, there's an organizational legal uncertainty. In order to avoid this and to give legal basis for the work of the local representative body, the bill was proposed. On December 15, 2004, the National Building and Local Government Committee reviewed the President’s remarks and considered it necessary to overcome the President’s veto. Dear fellow national MPs, I address you. This law is awaited in councils throughout Ukraine. After all, it is not easy to leave the office of head of self - government for a period of time. That's why I'm asking you to rehabilitate and overcome the veto of the head of state. In the event of a lack of support, I will offer another offer. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u81	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we will mobilize to determine the fate of the law. Have a seat, please. I have the committee papers, I know what the committee wrote. The president proposes rejecting the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, registration number 3599. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject this law. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:51:39]] For 20 Dear colleagues, I remind you once again not so much of the rule of law as the Constitutional Court's ruling that if there is a reference to any law of the President of Ukraine, the first vote is the Pre-Zi-day motion. And then there's a profile committee proposal. I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee to overcome the veto on the President's proposal to amend the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Registration number 3599. Please vote. [[11:52:41]] For 326 The decision has been taken, the veto has been overtaken by the President's remarks on this Act. We're considering the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 25 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Bill number 4044. He will report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Prepare for the Sukhoma Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In his proposals to the Ukrainian Law on Change to Article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Vacation, the President of Ukraine supported the proposal to grant leave without saving wages for the care of children with first-class diabetes before reaching 16-year-old children, subject to the simultaneous amendment of article nine of the Ukrainian Law on Vacations and Editorial detail, a reference to article 19 of this Act. The authors of the final draft of this bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour take into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, and the adoption of the bill, which takes into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, will grant the right of a mother or other persons who actually care for a child who has diabetes of the first type, are insulin-dependent, to leave without saving his salary until he reaches the age of 16 and will not have any extra expenses. I ask the Ukrainian people's deputies to support a bill that takes into account the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u83	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. From the Committee, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! I'll remind you that this bill, the author of it, is a national MP, our colleague Gorbachev. He envisages amending the basic holiday bill, particularly article 25, which regulates the situation or the situation where care is needed for the sick child. In this bill, it was intended to grant leave without saving the employee's salary at the discretion of the employee in the event that the child is suffering from first-class diabetes no more than 16-year-olds. Actually, what's this all about? Indeed, this bill strengthens the legal protection of those who care for a child who suffers from first - type diabetes and will help to solve the complex situation of caring for children who suffer from diabetes. The bill was foreshadowed and needed further work. And remember, it was October. We're in this room saying he's still here. He has an unsolved conflict. It is to which the President draws attention, and his proposals are designed to improve this law. By the way, paragraph 4 of the first part of article 9 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act was proposed to supplement it with the words, "And if the child is diabetic with first type diabetes before reaching 16 years of age." I mean, honourable colleagues, this is the very case, perhaps a rare case, when the legal force of this law is acquired in the current edition would not be a reference to social protection, but rather to the deterioration of the social situation of the people we care about. To prevent and ensure the real protection of the rights of sick children and their parents, the committee proposes to adopt Bill No. 4044 in a new edition, in line with the President's observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u85	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we are mobilizing. There's no conflict here. So I'm betting right now, we're going to have one vote, because all of the President's proposals that were before this bill are agreed upon by the committee. That's why I'm voting: on the adoption of the President's proposal to amend article 25 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act, bill number 4044. Please vote. [[11:57:34]] For 230 No, I don't, dear colleagues. This is a new edition that takes into account the President's proposals. We don't do the veto here, because all the offers are taken into account. The law is passed. Let's think about another law. The Ukrainian Act on Competitive Principles in the process of privatising shares with the President's proposals. Registration number 5584. Head of the State Property Fund Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. From the Matthews Committee, or who?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u86	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine returned the prescribed law for reconsideration to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, noting that it could not be signed because it contains rules that violate the constitutional principle on the inadmissibility of narrowing the content and extent of existing rights when adopting new or amending existing laws. It is worth noting that the basic provisions of the law are in conflict both with civil and economic legislation in general and with privatization legislation in particular. Ukraine’s legislation, along with competitive privatisations, provides for cases where the sale of shares, particles, rations of farm societies is carried out outside the competition with respect to the majority of shareholders’ right to acquire alienated shares, particles, and rations. Yes, according to article 147 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, members of a limited - liability society exercise the predominant right to buy parts, parts of which are sold to other participants in proportion to the size of their parts. Similarly, according to article 81 of the master code of Ukraine, participants in closed stock companies are granted similar rights. Besides, it's just... Ukrainian legislation provides that the “E” group objects are privatised by auctioning for competition and other competitive means only if the other founders of companies in statutory funds do not agree to buy this share. The proposed edition of the individual articles of the Ukrainian Act on the formation of competitive principles in the process of privatization of shares owned by a state in the property of legal persons will complicate the implementation by shareholders of private shareholders and associations with limited responsibility for their dominant right to acquire a package of shares owned by the State. Thus, the objective set before the Ukrainian law of establishing competitive principles in the process of privatization of shares, particles and pies belonging to the state of property of legal persons is being achieved at the cost of creating new coalitions in the current legislation and additional social and legal difficulties when introducing the process of privatization of state property. In view of the foregoing, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the President's proposals to bring the rules of law into line with the current legislation of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u87	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Yes, the profile committee is proposing to adopt this bill in a new edition, so please mobilize. Since we don't have the President's proposals taken into account, we're going to have two votes. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on Competitive Principles in the process of privatization of shares. Bill 5584. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:01:41]] For the five of us. The decision is not supported. I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee to adopt in a new edition of the Ukrainian Act on the Formation of Competitive Principles in the process of privatization of shares. [[Registration number 5584]] Please vote. [[12:02:18]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! A break of 30 minutes is announced, until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, we'll continue our morning session. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Ukraine’s Veterinary Medicine Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 2657, is under consideration. He will report to the First Deputy Justice Minister, Anitaliy Pavlovich, from the Committee to prepare Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u89	The country's honourable national deputies, these changes that are being proposed, are strictly technical. The point is that article 3 of the Act, which is discussed in section 3 of article 11 of the Ukrainian Veterinary Law on Veterinary Medicine, is the standard word to replace the words of the requirements laid down by legislation, and it is not taken into account that the word "standards" is no longer in the Act; it was deleted by the Ukrainian Law of February 20, 2003. In this connection, a new edition of article 3 of the Law of this relevant part is proposed in such a way as to replace the word with the requirements laid down in accordance with the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u90	Yes. And thank you, Anatoly Pavlovich, please sit down. Yes. Kalinczuk from the profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u91	Mr. Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations discussed at its meeting a matter that is now under consideration at the meeting of the Supreme Council and agreed with those mentioned above with the technical amendments made by the President, which is why the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations proposes to adopt this Act as amended by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u92	Thank you. Every amendment it makes in the Law is not technical; it is essential enough that the Law conforms to legal technology. Yes, dear colleagues, then we have all the grounds to put to the vote, please, dear colleagues, I invite you to take up your jobs, the discussions will be later. Let us vote as we obey the next law, and let us discuss it. I'm voting for the adoption of a new edition, taking into account the proposals of the President of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act, registration number 2647. Please vote. [[12:33:30]] For 216 Has the discussion been concluded by the group? Please. I see a few more mobile phones working in the hall, they're about to end the conversation, there's a possibility. I am voting for the adoption of a new edition, taking into account the proposals of the President of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act, bill number 2657. Please vote. [[12:34:24]] For 267 That's better than 267. The law was passed in a new edition with the President's proposals. The Ukrainian Meat and Meat Products Act, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 3077. Report to the Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics, Mr. Melnik Yuri Fedorovich, please. Be prepared by the Committee of Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ukrainian President's proposals to the Ukrainian Law on Meat and Meat Products include clarifications of the provisions of articles 8 and 16 relating to the certification of livestock and meat production subjects, the production and processing of meat, meat raw materials and meat products, as well as the establishment of responsibility for violating the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Meat and Meat Products concerning such suppliers and the taking effect of this law on such operators. The President’s proposals will help to strengthen the legal security of the activities of the operators, to improve and stabilize the functioning of the meat market, meat raw materials, and meat products in Ukraine. Therefore, honourable national MPs, please support the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Meat and Meat Products Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u94	Yuri Fedorovich, thank you. Please, Sergey Tereshuk of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u95	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Dear colleagues, the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, on December 14, discussed the proposals proposed by the President for the Meat and Meat Act. And I think because the proposals are aimed at removing the internal contradictions contained in the law, he asks for the support of the law and for the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u96	Thank you. Thus, fellow Members, we have reason to vote alone, namely, to adopt a new edition, taking into account the proposals of the President of the Ukrainian Law on Meat and Meat Products, registration number 3077. Please vote. [[12:36:47]] For a hundred and The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 16, "Ukrainian Regions" - 3, Communist faction - 50, National Agrarian Party - 17, Social-Democratic - 10, "One Ukraine" - 2, Socialist - 18, Timoshenko - 5, NDP, "True Ukraine" - 9, "Soyuz" - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 6, "Centre" - 2, "Posafration - 11. Dear colleagues, who from "Our Ukraine" will comment on this bill, what is the problem? None. I'll put it to the vote again. Dear colleagues, the committee has taken into account the President's proposals. I remember how much we fought for this bill. That's enough. I am voting for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals on meat and meat products, Bill No. 3077. Please vote. [[12:38:18]] For-191 Thus, the Law is repealed. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 18, "Ukrainian Regions" - 8, Communists - 56, National Agrarian - 24, Social Democrats - 12, "One Ukraine" - 3, Socialist - 17, Timoshenko - 5, NDP, "Trud Ukraine" - 13, "Soyuz" - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 8, "Centre" - 1, non-fractional - 14. Tereschuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the Law is not political at all. We all see the situation in the meat and dairy market today. The proposed Law provides the basis for the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate market prices for both consumers and producers. So we need to find a way out. If there is anything that needs to be changed in the Law, let us change. But he's needed today. What can be done?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u98	There's only one thing to do, Sergey Mikolayovich. There's only one thing to do: now this law is repealed, it's gone, two weeks from now -- the next session, you're introducing a new version of the Law, we're adopting it. It's practically going the same way that it's going now. I mean, I don't see a great tragedy. Those interested in regulating the issue, please prepare a new edition, and we will consider it in the next session. The Ukrainian Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, with proposals from the President. Registration number 2373. Report to the First Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations, Kosolap Anatoly Grigorovich. Widen out from the committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The amendments to article 20 of this Act do not comply with the provisions of articles 21, 22 and 23 of the same law, according to which the benefits provided for in article 20, paragraph 26 of the Act extend only to minor children of deceased citizens who are assigned to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd categories whose death is related to the Chernobyl disaster, as well as article 30, section 2, paragraph 4, of the Act, which extends to children with disabilities associated with the Chernobyl disaster. Thus, acceptance of these proposals will lead to misunderstandings and social tensions among citizens referred to in the second and third categories, who also have children, and will not be entitled to the mentioned benefit. The introduction of the proposed amendment entails the need to amend articles 11.12.14.15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster to establish additional grounds for determining the status of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and to extend the circle of such persons and clarify the categories of benefits and compensation they receive. Considering that the specified law does not determine any sources of such costs, it envisaged a change on the basis of the balanced budget of Ukraine, which would violate the requirements of part three of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, part two of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and part two of article 6.2. 7 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations require that in such cases the expenditure to be reduced be determined by sources of additional budgetary revenue. The proposed change from January 1st of this year, as stipulated in the second law, requires additional spending from Ukraine’s State Budget of some 32 million dollars. In view of this, the Ukrainian Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster is proposed to reject and submit a new Act amending the Act, taking into account the above observations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u100	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the profile committee, Shirko Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u101	Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian People’s Party, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The committee considered the proposals by the President of Ukraine to amend article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, which was sponsored by our colleague, Deputy Kosinov. In his proposals, the President proposes to reject the law and to pass a new law on Ukraine. The committee did not find convincing arguments about the need to reject the law and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Ukraine partially accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine to comply with the requirements of part three of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, namely to enact the law from January 1, 2006. This law is aimed at raising the level of social protection for the victims of the Chernobyl disaster, especially the category that protected the world from a terrible catastrophe, became disabled, received a low pension, and could not support its children to receive a paid education. The bill was supported by the Government's Committee on Industrial Policy, the Fuel Energy Complex, Ecology and Exceptional Situations and the Cabinet. The President's proposal that the proposed amendment should be amended simultaneously to articles 11, 12, 14, 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster does not reflect the logic of the law in force. In line with the provisions of the law on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, minor children of deceased citizens classified as category 1, 2 and 3, whose deaths are related to the Chernobyl disaster, are not necessarily affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Please support the committee's decision and adopt the law on the proposed editorial committee with partial consideration of the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u102	Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Have a seat. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the procedure, we must first vote on the President's proposal to reject this law. If this President's proposal doesn't get the required number of votes, then we'll vote for it to be adopted in a new edition, taking partial account of the President's proposals. Is there no objection? Then I'd like to have your attention. Voting motion by the President of Ukraine on rejection The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. Registration number 2373. [[12:46:50]] For-29 The President's proposal did not find support for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He's in the mood now. Invite the national deputies to the session room, and we need to make a responsible decision now. The proposal for a committee on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster is now being put to the vote in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. Registration number 2373. Please vote. [[12:47:42]] For 329 The law is passed. It is announced before the review of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine dated 01.12.2004. [[Registration number 5661]] Deputy Justice Minister Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna. Please, Inda Ivanovna. Prepare for the head of the Committee, Volodymyr Stretovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Ukrainian President of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Organizational and Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime" was returned to the Supreme Council in connection with the inadequacy of its individual provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. Provided by the stated provisions of the law, the requirement to agree on the creation of separate structural units of internal affairs and the appointment of the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Directorate-General for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry with the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, does not correspond to the Constitution, namely, its articles 6, 19, 85, 89, 106. In particular, article 85 and other articles of the Constitution do not refer to the approval of the Supreme Council, either to the creation of structural units of internal affairs bodies or to the approval of the appointment of the governing body of the Ministry. Moreover, according to article 89 of the Constitution, the Supreme Council approves the list of committees of the Supreme Council. It is also important to consider that such a list can change. And in addition, the Supreme Council committees are doing purely legislative work, preparing and reviewing only issues related to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 106 of the Constitution also stipulates that the President appoints the leaders of the central executive authorities and terminates their powers of office at the time of the appointment of the Prime Minister. The agreement between such submissions and any committee of the Supreme Council is unforeseeable. In view of this, it is proposed in parts of the third and fourth new edition of Article 9 of the Law on Organizationally Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime in the Law, which deals with the words "agreed with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption" to exclude. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u104	Yes. Thank you, sit down, please. Who will report from the Committee? Well, is there a committee decision? The committee proposes to beat the President's veto on this bill. Let's be clear. It is suggested that we organize the work, the honourable colleagues, on this issue, we should first vote on the proposal of the President of Ukraine. If she doesn't find support, then we're going to ask the question of defeating the veto of the President of Ukraine on this Act. If the veto is not overrun, we cannot overcome it, then the Law will be rejected. Is there no objection? Then, my honourable colleagues, I put to the vote the President's proposal: in parts 3 and 4 of the new edition of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime, the word "agreed with the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption" should be excluded. Yes, there's a vote coming. I'd like to make a statement, fellow officers of honor. [[12:51:48]] For -14
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u105	We don't even have so many factions, dear colleagues. The proposal of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime, registration number 5661, is now being put to the vote, please vote. [[12:52:39]] For 266 Veto Supreme Council didn't beat it. The law is rejected. Please, Semenyuk microphone. The factions? Please. The law is rejected. "Our Ukraine" -54; "Regions of Ukraine" - 5; Communists -59; People's Agrarian Party - 26; SPDU(o) - 23; "Only Ukraine" -10; SPU -20; Block Timoshenko -13; "Trud Ukraine", NDP -15; "Soyuz" -10; "Deminiciatives" -0; "Centre" -14; non-fractional -17. Microphone of Valentina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to address you on the grounds that even such a document is not accepted in the hall. I'd like to contact you from the procedure. As the head of the special control commission, I see today that the government that is said to have not left at all, and the other has not come, is going terribly to stretch state property. And I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I registered yesterday a document under number 6483 concerning the legal relationship of property on the preservation of state property, especially during such a transitional period. And I would very much ask that we save what is and that there is no vacchanal that the Cabinet of Ministers is doing today when everything is sold to the left, to the right, even without a legal conclusion, so that we can put this issue into the agenda on Thursday and look at it. That's exactly what the fight against corruption that we talked about today in this session hall and when we didn't support the document. I'd like to refer to the deputies, let's go back, reread this document and vote it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u107	I think that's how we should give in to our esteemed colleagues, Valentina Petrovna. To take the appropriate decision in the Supreme Council, in which to urge the government to stop the privatization process now and so forth, because if the law, then the law should be signed. And it's just that we're going to accept a document that's not going to work. And now the decision should prompt it. Let's see, if this document is ready for Thursday, we'll take it. Yes, please, the secretariat will then study the matter. What are we going to try? I understand, but the question is, there's nothing I can do, you know. Let's make a new law for the next session, and we'll consider it. It is announced for the consideration of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 23.10.2004. Registration number 3743. Reporter - Deputy Justice Minister Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna Get ready from the Ivanov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u108	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The President of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine has not been signed, because it is the view of the President that the taking of effect of these laws will lead to significant difficulties in the implementation of a series of legal acts and will significantly undermine the control of their implementation. The principles provided for by law make it unreasonably difficult to exercise control, which will have a profound impact on the performance of tasks entrusted to the supervisory and law enforcement authorities, including those defined by the law. The adoption of the law under consideration will deprive the authorities of the State Audit Service and the State Tax Service of the right to conduct cross-checks of operators, which is one of the main methods of verifying the reliability of financial transactions and will have a negative impact on the completeness of controls. If we use a few words per section of this law, it is proposed that the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations be supplemented by a new article that provides for administrative responsibility for failure or timely submission by officials of enterprises, institutions and organizations of payment orders, and a list of those eligible for payment of taxes and congregations. However, a similar responsibility already exists: Article 212 of the Criminal Code already provides for competition in criminal and administrative responsibility, which is certainly not possible. At the same time, article 127 of the Criminal Code also provides for a new text. The penalty is part of the fourth new edition of this article, which envisions permanent deprivation of liberty, in contravention of the general principle of the appropriateness of punishment, the gravity of the crime committed. With regard to the changes proposed in the Ukrainian Police Act, they duplicate the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulates and regulates the order of detention, which also establishes the rule of compensation for moral and material damage. With regard to the amendments to the Police Act in part, that is contrary to the Civil Code, that is contrary to the Code of Damage Procedure. There are also a number of proposals for the Law on the State Tax Service and the State Audit Service. In view of what has been said, the Ukrainian Act "To amend certain laws of Ukraine (to strengthen the legal protection of citizens and to introduce mechanisms for the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens to entrepreneurial activity, personal integrity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u109	Yes, Nina Ivanovna, thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, please, Ivanov Sergey Anatolyevich. Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u110	Honourable deputies, well, the committee has already reviewed the bill again after the President sent it to us for finalization, where 18 amendments were made, of which six were taken into account, seven were partially counted and seven were rejected, seven were rejected, and five were partially counted. Well, why do we have this law? Why do we consider it? First of all, we all understand that this puts the entire law enforcement system and the police and the tax system within such a narrow framework where their activities will be limited on many such issues. Why is that? Because the corrupt practices of law enforcement authorities may have been the cause of these changes to certain laws. Thus, the committee, after careful consideration of all these comments, insists on the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u111	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Jaroslav Suhi for the reasons for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u112	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye town, Trudova Ukraine-DP faction. Dear colleagues, you will recall in this session room, and in previous calls, and in this call, we have had a serious discussion with you on a number of occasions about the need to strengthen financial discipline in budgetary institutions, about the need to increase the fight against stretching, with the breaking up of budget funds, with purposeless dispersion. And today this bill actually paralyses the work of law enforcement authorities to build a evidence base for the investigation. Therefore, I think it is entirely appropriate and appropriate to reject this bill, because the taking of effect as defined by the law will virtually make it impossible to interact between the supervisory authorities and the law enforcement authorities, including by carrying out the tasks that you and I have set out with you on the legal and institutional basis of the fight against organized crime and will in general contribute to the weakening of financial discipline in the state. So I strongly ask this bill to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u113	Vasjunik, please, microphone. And invite the people's deputies to the session room, and there will be a voting process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u114	Ivan Vasilik, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that the adoption of the 21st of September of this law has received a very broad positive announcement in society. It was supported by many citizens, law - enforcement organizations, and entrepreneurs. And so my arguments, my colleague's previous arguments, have virtually nothing to do with the law. The law is aimed exclusively at establishing a civilized relationship between, on the one hand, taxpayers and entrepreneurs and, on the other hand, between the police and the citizens. In principle, I stress that the law is not directed against tax administration, police or audit officials and does not limit their rights to financial and tax control. So we just have to forget the rhetoric about fighting corruption, which has nothing to do with this law, because it's not limited to rights, it's being established.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the procedure, the President of Ukraine's motion to reject the Ukrainian Act of Amendment to certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the legal regime for the protection of citizens and implementing mechanisms for the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens to entrepreneurial activities: personal integrity, security, respect for the dignity of the person, legal assistance, protection. Registration number 3743. I'm betting on the President's motion to reject this law. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:03]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the proposal for a committee is put to the vote: the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the legal protection of citizens and implementing mechanisms for the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens to entrepreneurial activities: personal integrity, security, respect for the dignity of the person, legal assistance, protection - to be adopted in a new edition with partial consideration for the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Registration number 3743. Please vote. [[13:04:55]] For 332 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 16.11.2004, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 5396. The reporter is the first Deputy Head of the State Television and Radio Committee, Shevchenko Vasil Grigorovich. The committee will be headed by the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine has returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine and is proposed to reject it for such reasons. In fact, the law provides for an increase in the number of speaking rights of Ukrainian national MPs on free intervention in matters of parliamentary activity in the media, the founder or co-founder of which is made by public authorities, organizations or institutions that are financed in full or in part by budgetary resources. In particular, it is suggested that they be given, in addition to the legal drafting of article 18 of the television and radio bill, up to 10 minutes per month on radio, up to 20 minutes per month on television, and at least 15 minutes of air time per month for the voter’s report, in addition to almost the same amount of time on live television or live television. The introduction of such changes would result in a violation of the property rights of television organizations, which, in accordance with article 36, part 3, of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Regulations, are exclusively entitled to use their programmes in any way. Part 4 of article 29 of the same law establishes that the time and forms of implementation by the Ukrainian National Deputies of their right to speak on the issue of parliamentary activity on radio and television are determined by the State Broadcasting Organization. It could be both direct air, so the previous video or audio recording with the next broadcast or any other form. This practice exists today, it has not created and created obstacles to the realization of this right by the Ukrainian people's deputies. In addition, the law makes the content of the current article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy much worse and may lead to a mixed interpretation of its provisions. In particular, after making the proposed changes, your view is suggested as to what the article will look like. It's going to look like this: "The People's MP has the right to speak out of the question of his MP's activities for less than once a month in print media, on live television, on radio or on live air -- up to 10 minutes a month and on live air or live television -- up to 20 minutes a month." It goes on, "on the radio, up to 10 minutes a month, on television, up to 20 minutes a month." In addition, three different terms are used in the law to determine the actual same concept in the same article: direct air, direct air, and direct air time, which have different meanings and require appropriate legal interpretation. Therefore, the prescribed law is proposed to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u117	Thank you, too. Sit down, Vasil Grigorovich. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! It has already been emphasized that the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the law, first, in view of his opinion that it would lead to a violation of the rights of television organizations. By the way, on May 12, last year, after reviewing the bill, the committee submitted a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it on the basis of a first reading review. However, on October 22, last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decision on the adoption of the draft law, both in the first reading and in general, both in the law. So we did not have this opportunity with you to rework it and prepare it properly for the second reading. Therefore, some clarifications were also necessary, and today it would be necessary to admit them, to do so. In particular, in connection with the introduction into the legislative cycle of the term of the direct-emission regime of the cheeks to reveal its contents in the Basic Law on Television and Radio, it leaves the mechanism of the most direct legal mechanism, the regulation of the right of the national deputy to speak on television and radio, with regard to his parliamentary activities. The main scientific and expert administration agrees with the President of Ukraine's proposals for the Act. But the Committee on Rules of Procedure. With regard to the relevance of the issue of the right of the Ukrainian national deputy to use the media in carrying out his parliamentary duties, the Ukrainian MP made a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the President's proposal to reject the Act. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u119	Yes, thank you. Beat the veto. There is a desire to comment on the motives, three minutes, please write down for three minutes, sign up and invite the national deputies to the sessional dilais, because the question is very important, as it relates to the disclosure of the activities of each national MP and his association with the voters through the media. Please, Boris Vanity, get Melniczuk ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u120	Boris Nepaly, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." In connection with this bill, I simply recall the long - term struggle for the right of direct broadcast by the Supreme Council, for the right to create parliamentary television, where the President also promised our initiatives all the time, referring to a three - percent, so - called barrier. I think in this case, it's not really about any technical constraints, but about whether the electorate should be given information about the work of the first-hand or second-fresh MPs, which has already been interpreted by some other body. So, in fact, this law certainly deserves support, even though it may cause some organizations some problems, because the interests of the electorate are above all else. And I think our faction in this paper has this law to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u121	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u122	Please pass the word to your colleague Stepan Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u123	Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u124	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. The law is absolutely necessary. From my MP practice, I know how important it is not to be interpreted, say, by Mr. Laponenck, the director general of the TV company "Ltava", and the voice of the national deputy was heard directly by the electorate. Because I've had cases where I've just been taken off the radio, on television, and so on. So let's try to beat the President's veto and make sure the voters hear us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u125	Oleg Belarus, please, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u126	Please give the word to the prominent actor of the Ukrainian Revolution, Yavorovski Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u127	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u128	Vladimir Yavorowski. Not great, but acting. Thank you, Mr. Belarus. My dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have been delegated here by the people to the legislature. We're Ukrainian politicians, no matter what we think, right, left, centrist, self-centered and all that. But we're here. And we have to bring our position and our opinion to society. This is our constitutional right. The president wanted to cut us off and go around again. We must do it together today, once again, regardless of our views, to overcome the veto and achieve that right. Each of us has the right to talk to people at that short time. It doesn't make any difference, believe me. Let's beat the President's veto and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on this law. In accordance with the Rules and the procedure, we must put the President of Ukraine's proposal to the vote first. And the proposal of the President of Ukraine is: The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine rejects. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the law is first voted out. Do you understand? And then we're going to vote, if we don't reject the law, against the President's veto on this law. That's why I'm voting on a motion by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, registration number 5396. [[13:16:14]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Now, honourable colleagues, vote on the proposal by the Committee on the Veto of the President of Ukraine to amend article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, registration number 5396. Please vote. [[13:16:49]] For 344 The veto on the Ukrainian Presidential Act on Amendments to Article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine was overcome by 344 votes. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Business Income Tax Act of 1607.2004, registration number 4016, has been announced for consideration. Reporter: Minister of Education and Science Vasil Grigorovich Kremen, please. Terjohin Sergey Anatoliyovich will speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, following a review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 24, last year, took the view that the Act could not be signed in view of a number of circumstances. You have the appropriate proposals of the President of Ukraine on your hands, but in this case I will not go to their detailed lecture in view of the quality of the new situation that has arisen in connection with the adoption on 14 December this year of the new edition of the whole well-known Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in the field of higher education. [[No. 5480]] This law has already been signed by the President of Ukraine. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Supreme Council, especially the Committee on Science and Education, for adopting this Law. The point is that paragraph 4 of the first chapter of the President's Law fully covers the key content of Bill 4016, which is the subject of our consideration today. This standard of the Law that has already been adopted offers an even more complex and balanced solution to the problem of optimizing tax mechanisms for the costs of enterprises involved in training, training, retraining, or upgrading skills. This solution has been negotiated for a long time and is more in the interests of the parties. So the need to regulate this sphere is no longer a separate law that we are considering today. It should be noted that this item has been effective since January 1, 2006. On the basis of the proposal made, I agree with the proposal made by the President of Ukraine and the draft Ukrainian Business Income Taxation Act, number 4016, to be rejected. I would also like to thank the authors of this bill, who, by passing this bill, have shown concern for further development of education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u131	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovich. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u132	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited! The Committee on Finance and Banking considered the submission of the President of Ukraine and decided that it made sense because we had recently adopted amendments to the Higher Education Act. He reported this law, if you remember, to the MP Nikolaynko, where all these issues have been settled. Therefore, there is an offer by the committee to accept the repeal of this law. But in view of the fact that voting for the President's proposals does not raise a finger, and voting for the law makes no sense, I would simply advise the Chief of the Supreme Council to remove this law from the discussion in general, either to put both and that, and not to vote there or there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u133	Thank you. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please microphone, head of the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u134	Nikolainka, a faction of socialists. I thank both Vasil Grigorovitch and Sergei Anatolyovich. They said absolutely right, we literally ran the same law two weeks ago, made changes and additions to the corporate income tax law. It was a comprehensive law on amendments and additions to some of the legislative acts on higher education. And that was settled. Vladimir Mikhailovich, what's so interesting about what's going on? We got the President's veto twice, and we didn't make it to the budget process, and it's only going to be in effect since January 1, 2001. We would have to make a commitment to at least half a year to take it into account, and companies would be able to channel funds for the training of personnel today because they are not doing so today. 0.3 percent of the salary fund alone is directed. If we had done so, we would have carried out a major national mission and supported higher education and production. That is, by speeding up the introduction of that law, you can go about halfway through the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u135	But now, in this way, the honourable colleagues, the proposal, I take it, is unanimous by the two committees that we should vote and support the President's proposal to reject this law, otherwise it will hang on the Supreme Council. Right? Therefore, respectable colleagues. May I have your attention, please? Let us now support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and vote for the rejection of this law. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income. Registration number 4016. Please vote. [[13:23:06]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Well, if you don't want to vote, I'm going to take another look at this question: overcoming the veto on this law. Please, we can't beat the veto-- it's going to be rejected. Please. I am voting on the issue of overcoming the President's veto on the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation, registration number 4016. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:23:47]] For-22. Thus, honourable colleagues, the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation, registration number 4016, was rejected. Dear colleagues, we now have a whole package of laws. And I ask your attention to consult with you and agree on how we should act. This is a draft of the Private Detective Activity Act, registration numbers 5380, 5380-1; draft of the Law on the Safety of Hosts and Other Legal Persons, registration number 5738; and draft Act on Protection Activities. [[5739]] These are actually four laws on the same subject. How would you react to such an offer to hear reports on these three laws? Four laws, co-reported and then discussed and made a decision at this morning's meeting. Is there no objection? Then let's do it this way. Let us give the floor to the reports of Kafari Volodymyr Ivanovich here within 3 minutes of his draft law, Yuri Carmazin, who is the author of three laws here, so let's say a minute 9 for a report under three laws. Then we'll hear from the Andrew School Committees in two laws, six minutes, Alexander Markovich Bandurka, three minutes, and then we'll have a discussion. Is there no objection? None. Then it is invited to the report by the national deputy of Ukraine, Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich. Is there a Vladimir Ivanovich? It doesn't, does it? Well, we have a bill. Then Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Please, please, you are one of the authors. Please. Yuri Anatoliyovich, now by law 5380, and then you by your own laws. Bandur Alexander Markovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! Dear Head! I'm not going to go into detail because we have a whole package of these laws. I mean, there's two alternative laws, and there's a small difference. One is the authors of Kafarsky, Bandurka, Moses, who is now assigned to report to me. The second Oneschuk, Onopenko, Carmazin. All I'm saying is the names of the time deficit. The committee decided. Considered two bills as well as the expert bodies of the Supreme Council. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on private-detective activities of Kafarski, Bandurka and Moisiq to be adopted as a basis. And he identified me as his co-reporter. Second bill to be reported by Yuri Anatoliyovich. It's distinguished by small, perhaps detail. There the committee decided to reject, because it accepted the proposal to support the bill of heads and the first deputy committee, we would not object if any of these bills were adopted, whether the one recommended as a basis or the other, and one could make a bill before the second reading. And I'd like to, literally, stop at the next minute. What's going on in the state's private detective activity is created by a variety of security structures, information centers, search groups and so forth. This is also done by former Security Service staff and former IMF employees, private individuals who have appropriate or professional tasks or personal inclinations. This activity must be regulated by law. The bill also defines the rights and obligations that are within the limits of private detective activity and, finally, the appropriate control over such activities and how to use their materials. I have only one doubt about the bill that Bandurka, Moysik, Kafarski has passed, is that licensing controls rely on private detective activity for the Ministry of Justice. We give the Ministry of Justice powers somewhere that are not directly intended for its functions. Today, this private detective activity is carried out within the framework of the Business Act. But it's not entrepreneurship again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u137	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Have a seat, please. One minute, perhaps questions, dear colleagues, there are. Sign up for three minutes. Sorry, I'm in a hurry. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Eugene Gorenik, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u138	Dear reporter! This is where Vladimir Mikhailovich proposed all three laws in the complex to consider. Nevertheless, it has its own distinction: detective activity, security and business security activities and legal persons. After all, it is necessary, firstly, to separate all of these laws and to treat them differently, and secondly, all three of them, and including the Law, which you report, well, only a private detective activity is broken and then it continues in these next two laws. But local self - government authorities and state - owned enterprises can do so and do not necessarily have to do so in government structures. I mean, in general, the conclusion of the expert office for pre-processing. Why did you decide that on the first reading instead of trying to improve this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u139	Thank you. For state-owned search agencies, there is the Operational Search and Search Act and it is clearly defined: who is to carry out state-owned detective activity. And there's no need to make a bicycle, it's already there, and it just needs to be driven, not by state or private detective activity, it's in practice, it just needs to be normalized, it needs to be legalized. And I agree with your observation that private detective activity and detective activity, which is being considered here, is one unit of relationships in society, and what we have to look at is more law enforcement or security services, is I'm not touching them here in my speech, because it's other laws, and I agree with you, and there's a second report on it. I can see it, and Kafarsky showed up in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u140	Yes. Sergey Matvienkov, faction of the "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u141	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. The distinguished Alexander Markovich, Markovich, has long been in need of this Act and, in general, the bloc of these laws, because we understand very well that, to date, large firms have both security services and analytical centres and intelligence groups and security and security services, and this is necessary to date, but two issues. First, how these laws will work if we do not have the Weapons Act in the country today is the first. And secondly, how do we get out of the situation that will arise in the work of these firms if we do not have a mechanism for dealing with specialities. There are means of auditioning and means of recording and so on and so on. I mean, don't you think that's what you need to say to supplement these two bills, a block of bills with a set of other laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u142	Thank you. You're right, you need to adopt the Arms Act, it's in our agenda, and the Telecommunications Monitoring Act is so delicately called the Hearing and Special Forces Act. He is also in the order of the day with both our committee and the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u143	Time's up. Have a seat. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Nine minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u144	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. I'll make it clear to those who say it's not Carmazin, it's Carmazin, because I'm the author of three pieces of legislation, one of the authors. And you'll understand why, because we wanted to look at this question in the same way that Matthew's deputy asked. We wanted to look at these issues in the complex. And when we started making one law, and we started doing it seven more years ago, the Law on Detective Activity, we found that we didn't have some stuff. And we need to make another law. We made the second law -- we saw that we had to do the third law. And here I thank you for putting them all together. And you've just heard the offer of the Bandurka People's Deputy, he said it right because there was competition by one law, leadership. For the management of the cabinets, we agree on all positions perfectly by law, and we come to common ground. So I would like to report that ensuring the security of citizens of the state under the first law, on detective activity, on ensuring the security of citizens of Ukraine and the country as a whole is a priority task of the State, but Ukraine's current legislation in this area is far from real life. It needs to be brought closer to the legislation of the developed countries of the world and the European Union. A major component of the country’s nonstate security system is private detective activity. Unfortunately, in Ukraine this type of activity is not regulated by valid legislation at all. Which, on the one hand, does not contribute to the development of the activities noted. Although individual individuals and entities are trying to do this kind of work, they're doing it illegally. Moreover, it also contributes to corruption in law enforcement. Because they're actually trying to fill this right niche. How we studied the experience that is being done in other countries of the world and in the territories of the former Soviet Union. In the territory of the former Soviet Union, individual states have already developed and adopted legislative acts to regulate private detective activity. For example, in the Republic of Moldova, there is a law on nonstate detective and security activities, which was adopted in April 1994. In October 1994, the Government of the Republic of Moldova adopted Decree 752 on the organization of nonstate detective and security activities. In the Republic of Tatarstan, the law on private detective protection was adopted as early as November 1998. In most detail among the SND countries, detective activity is regulated in the Russian Federation. There the law on private detective and security activities in the Russian Federation was passed in March 1992. As the system develops, the structures that carry out detective activities to acquire positive practical activities have been amended on numerous occasions. The positive thing is that along with the adoption of the aforementioned law in the Russian Federation, a number of related legislative and regulatory acts have been adopted that have further regulated the development of the country's detective system. We predict that the subjects, the detective activity is going to be, we first define what "detective" is. This is a citizen of Ukraine who has obtained a license under the established law for private search activities and performs the services listed in article six of the real law. What services are these? These are: collecting information from civil affairs on a contractual basis with participants in the process, studying the market, gathering information for business negotiations, identifying insolvent or unreliable business partners, protecting businesses and firms from illegal collection or use of information, setting up conditions for improper use of trademarks, appointments, setting up anonymous mail authors, and finding missing citizens. You know we have thousands of these citizens every year. And so far, they've been unsuccessfully searching. Finding lost citizens or businesses, institutions, organizations of property. We have foreseen the rights and responsibilities of the subjects of this activity, the detective activity. And the first such, as provided for in article 8, is compliance with the requirements of legislation, professionally and conscientiously fulfilling the terms of the treaties, not divulging the information received. We predict that the Association of Detective Workers will organize and coordinate the activities of these detectives and detective organizations. Also foreseen in article 12 is the interaction with law enforcement authorities that law enforcement agencies can organize on a free and paid basis information and other support to detectives and detective organizations with the definition of a census. There is a license for detective activity. In order to obtain a license to carry out this activity, a person claiming to carry out it himself or through an authority authorized by him or her or a person who applies to the relevant internal affairs body with an application for an established licence. And that's very important. They work all the time on a license issued by an internal affairs authority. And so he's controlled in his activities. The wrong thing to do is the license was taken away, and they're not doing anything. With regard to another Law, Act 5738 of the Law on the Safety of Hosts and Other Legal Persons, introduced by National Deputies Onischuk, Onopenk, and Karmazin. This Law, called for the need to ensure economic, financial, physical, and other security, and the legitimate activities of operators and other legal persons by their own means, to ensure the protection of their rights, and to create favourable conditions for the further development of the enterprise. The experience of the SND countries, in particular the Russian Federation, regarding the application of the adopted 11 years ago, has shown the need to define a separate legislative act of structural subdivisions of owners, other legal entities, to ensure their own safety. We have clearly foreseen that the basic principles of the functioning of the security services of operators are the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of human rights and freedoms, and the citizen, the prevention of measures to ensure the security of the object, the priority of protecting the rights of persons who are not at risk as a result of ensuring the security of the confidentiality of information about implementation. We have also provided in this law the duties of their subjects and the rights of their subjects, restrictions on the involvement of citizens in the service, and the legal status and order of office of these workers. The third law in this series is Law 5739, the Act of Protection, introduced by National Deputies Onishuk, Onopenek and Karmazin, defines the legal organizational economic principles for the conduct of protective activities by entities of the management of all forms of property, the provision of contractual services for the protection of property and natural persons, the authorization of entities for the protection of activities, the guarantee of legal and social protection of security personnel, the guarantee of the rights of natural and legal persons in the exercise of protective activities, and the order in which they are carried out. Protective activity involves the activity of providing all forms of property for the protection of natural and legal persons on a contractual basis. Which one of you has been in the United States, you even know that Congress has its own protection. It is not subject to any other kind of protection. And so in many other organizations. In Ukraine today, non-State security services are not yet in a position to develop, since appropriate legal conditions have not yet been created, since there are no legally defined legal protection measures, especially with regard to the protection of non-State organizations by private guards. I have to tell you that the scientific and expert administration recommended that these laws be adopted on a basis. As for the first law on detective activity, this law has been revised. At first it was submitted to the National Deputy Oneichuk, and then we reworked it, taking into account the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u145	The questions to Yuri Anatoliovich are, dear colleagues? Please sign up for the questions. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Bespali, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u146	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I support in general the idea of bringing this important sphere of activity into line, but. Your report said that private security structures could not be developed now and so forth. In the meantime, we see that private and even privatized security structures are also developing. Under the elections, some of the security structures in the last presidential elections were actually formed as formation gangs, others outside of all legislation abused the electorate and so on. Then I have a question. Is there simply an overview of the activities of these entities already in existence, disarming them, bringing them into line with the law of their work, and considering them? What have they done in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u147	Thank you. Thank you for asking, my colleague, but I want to tell you everything. The security structures you're talking about have been operating illegally. There is no such law. We're just now proposing to do this by law. And of course, the rules are the only ones for all structures. And what you're saying is that the investigation of what you've been doing does not refer to the scope of this law and, of course, this is not provided for in the Transitional Statutes. It doesn't have to be predicted. And it can't be provided for in the Transitional Positions. And we have foreseen that individual articles control and supervision of security activities is carried out by the executive authorities within the limits laid down by these laws. And we assumed responsibility for violating this legislation when it contradicts the interests of the State and society, legal or physical persons, or the life and health of individuals. So I think all we have to do is adopt legislation. Then there won't be anything in this election that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u148	Katerina Timofievna Vaszczuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u149	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, of course, should be such a law, since there are such structures in Ukraine. But that's my question. The project establishes the right of detectives to use firearms and extends to detective activities the rules for the use of special means set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for internal affairs officials. But organizations that carry out detective activities are not law enforcement organizations. Why, then, do firearms and other special measures not have the right to use prosecutors, judges, lawyers? Their work is no less dangerous. And one more question. I don't understand. You write that in detective activity, the principle of social justice is applied. How can this be done when it is done on a pay basis? And how social.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u150	I get it. Thank you, Catherine Timothy, for asking. I think I'm about to solve all the shadows of doubt that you or your colleagues have. Why? Well, first of all, answering the first part of the question: both prosecutors and judges have the right to carry and use firearms. This is the first time. This is provided for in the Law on the Status of Judges, which is provided for in the Public Prosecutor's Act. Not "no," but yes, and they use it. You want to check me out, please, and see the law. And you're going to face this particular question, and I'm absolutely responsible for that, and here's the hand -- you can cut it off. That's right. I'm asking Suhio not to help me, because. Now it's about the principle of social justice and whether or not detectives are going to be the people of law enforcement. Of course they won't show up, that's the first. And the second. Today, we have about 500,000 employees in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a little less. With students, students and everyone else around it. It's just internal affairs. Everyone has the right to carry firearms. A lot of countries, and we're looking at you right now, are working with the arms commission, which is talking about all the citizens who are sane and so on. Now for the detectives. We clearly record in article 7: "Detectives or members of detective organizations are not authorized by law enforcement authorities and are not engaged in research, investigation and justice functions related to the exclusive competence of the authorities of knowledge, trial, prosecution and court." This is clearly stated in the law. And it's also written and it's designed to control them. And it's the IMF that's going to issue licenses for this activity. And the 22nd article provides for the annulment of a license for detective activity. We say that the internal affairs authority that has issued licences has the power to annul them in cases such as: first, violation or failure by a detective or enterprise of the requirements provided for by law, other laws, other legal acts of Ukraine that form the legal basis of activity; second, failure to fulfil tax and other obligations. And so on. We can only predict that he did something wrong, right now. But I'm telling you, in the Russian Federation, 12 years this law has worked, they've made 11 changes and additions, and we're just, just now, we're matured to start looking at it, and then we're trying to put a stick somewhere. Let's take the first reading, let's make proposals, let's accept, let's do the Law, let's see how, and we have the right to take the license. It's clearly written, I'd quote you if there's no Law under your hand. Similarly, these three Laws are linked to one another. I see, Catherine Timofievna, that before you the Law and I, it makes me very happy and happy, thank God, it's not just me. I assure you that these laws, these three laws today, are of interest to many in Ukraine, because almost a hundred thousand people are involved in this work, but they do not have the Law, they do the work on the basis of oral instructions, orders. And you come as a deputy and you say, I'm here, I'm a national MP, and they say, "Ask the chief's permission." And you say I'm a deputy. Or they do not know the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u151	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes. From the Committee, please, School for Two Bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u152	School Andrew, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Committee of Law Enforcement, Head of the Subcommittee. The school of Andrew. I'm in Law 5738. The law, which in principle contains a series of money in itself, is not bad enough as a design, but in fact. In executive discipline, the lawmaker here was somewhat underworked, so I, on the Committee, had a serious enough discussion on this subject, but we came to the conclusion that this bill 5738 should be sent, reminding me that this is about the security services of operators and other legal persons submitted by the National Deputies of Onischuk, Onopenko, Karmazin for re-reading or for work. I think re-reading first will be the best option. Because, in fact, I was very keen to convince the committee that we should let him go, as a minimum, into the session room, which is what happened and we wouldn't have delayed this process. Because the subject is important, the subject is raised repeatedly, and it actually exists. In two words, literally, this bill. We all, well, many, often less often be in banks and we know that the monopolies in banks are police officers, because only they have the right to use, use, carry and store automatic weapons, not short-lived weapons, but ordinary weapons, that is, automatic weapons, and the best way to incarceration and security is through the properties of these weapons. And here the police are a monopoly. Monopolism must be fought. The idea is supported, but it's not properly written, it's in conflict with existing legislation, it's contrary to existing laws. So once again, in support of the idea, I urge you to do it again first. The idea needs to be supported, because monopolies need to be combated, who doesn't create it, whether the police create it, or any other structure, it's not for the benefit of the consumer, which is you and me eventually, in the end. The next bill, because there are two of them here, is also a bill by the same authors of Onopenek, Onopenek, Carmazin on security. This is similar, because this is about the service of security entities, it's internal security, and the security activity is very narrow, just the security that I'm talking about -- banks, offices, incarceration, that sort of thing. And even though there's a lot of talk about, you know, what they're saying is that they're incarcerated, whatever private structures are there. Believe me, there are representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there are no private incasers. There are only state incinerators. It's just that entrepreneurs carry money to their own risk with their own security structures. It's a problem that needs to be solved, and I'm pretty sure that whoever has a little bit to do with it will agree with me. Again, however, there is a question of contradictions with existing legislation. There is a question about what the bill itself, namely, the Scientific and Experimental Administration of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine are proposing for re-reading. Although this is not such a strong argument for me, but the decision of the committee, where attention was once again drawn to what was relevant, needed, and the need to diversify the security service, cannot again be a monopoly state. However, the approach was something, let's say, an uneven one was suggested. That's why, of course, I voted there not to put it on first reading, so that this bill wouldn't disappear. But the committee made a decision with a large number of votes for reworking or for the rereading of the first reading. I'm asking each of the national deputies to identify themselves. But I'd like to do it in this order. Still, let's do it again first. You don't have to lose those bills. The session ends, and in a short period of time, the inter-sessional one can be worked out, refined, along with the authors within the committee to create a working group. We've talked about this before, but it took the authors' consent. And to propose for the next session a clear, balanced, and very basic law that will not conflict with existing legislation. And most importantly, it's going to be focused exclusively on what's written in the bill, but it doesn't go beyond the subject, because that's where the questions came up. And I'm going to say that the subject is important, and we can't throw it away, saying that this is what the situation with security is, let's keep it that way. That would be unfair and illiterate. That's why we need to talk. I am convinced that the discussion will be an exchange of thoughts. But the planks are lower than the first one again, I don't think it's worth going down. Because once again, in a short period of time, we can do good quality law, propose, and it will be pleasant for consumers, and for those who will do the law. Because I am also deeply convinced that with the change of power and the Ministry of Internal Affairs will review its attitude towards the democratization of the Ministry itself and its approach to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u153	Thank you. Alexander Markovich, do you still need those two committee bills? Then please use Bandurka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, I fully agree with what National MP Andriy Vasilovich School said. At best, re-reading will allow these laws to be brought into line with the requirements and observations that already exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, how much? For a minute of 20, do we have enough questions? 21 minutes then we're going to have to talk about what we're going to spend at 16 hours. What about Kafarsky? Your bill has already been reported by Bandurka, who is also one of the drafters of the bill. So he already had a word. So 21 minutes to talk is going to be a question. A break of 16 hours is announced. Dear colleagues, I warned you yesterday that there is a decision by the Conciliation Board that the committees are not working this week because we are closing the session and we don't need the committees to work for the next session.
