ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u1	There's something at our meeting tonight that's much smaller than in the morning. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:03:13]] 343 national deputies registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please listen to the information. I want to remind you that when we started the morning session, the Chief of the Supreme Council informed you of the meetings of the heads of the MP factions. We don't have any groups anymore, by the way. All MP factions. At the meeting of the deputy factions, we agreed, and then in the morning session, we agreed with you that, after considering the question of appointment, the appointment of the Prime Minister, we will come up with you to consider the issue of the establishment of temporary special investigation committees on the resonance events that have taken place recently in our country. Therefore, with your permission, Your Honor, I would like to put to the vote and remind you that all those who participated in the factions and groups meeting unanimously supported such a proposal, to include in the agenda, to include in the agenda and to review today, right now, issues under numbers 8126, is the decision to form an interim inquiry committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the verification of the facts published during September 2005, in the statements of former Secretary of State Zinchenka, former head of the Security Service of Turkey, former Deputy Prime Minister of the Ukraine of Tomenko and Chief of the Supreme Economic Court of the Russian Federation. That's 8156. Also 86, the draft decree on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the statements made by former Secretary of State of Ukraine Zinchenko on the facts of corruption, the abuse of office by individual statesmen. The authors of this project are Bespalij and Koval. The previous project I called Schurm and Shufrich. And draft decision 8155, author of Solomatin's initiative: to create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of establishing the illegal involvement of a citizen of the Russian Federation with refugee status in Britain by Berezovo Boris Abramovich in financing the election campaign of a candidate for the President of Ukraine, Yushchenka. That is why I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of these three decrees. Please vote. [[16:06:38]] For 267 Questions are included in the agenda, we will now consider. Please, by the factions. The Communists – 53, the Ukrainian Regions – 46, Our Ukraine – 2, the People's Party – 35, Block Timoshenko – 38, Socialists – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Forward, Ukraine! – 20, Social-Democratic Party – 20, One Ukraine – 5, Reforms and Order – 4, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 5, National Movement of Ukraine – 6, Trudova Ukraine, NDP – 3 and Postfractions – 5. [[united]] Questions are included in the agenda, and we will consider them. Wait. What's the question? We are not yet considering the matter. Yeah, well, please sign in with the three-minute procedure. Yes, please, on the Nosenko board, Nadragha.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u2	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to your colleague Masenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u3	Please, Masenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u4	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I want you to listen. Last week, or last week, you were commissioned by the Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government to consider Bill 8120 of Chernobyl and Stoyan, where they propose to hear or hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the participation of the President of Ukraine to find out the causes of the state’s crisis and to make decisions on its resolution. We held an emergency meeting last week, made a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the matter be considered at the hands of the President. I would ask that he be put to the message of the day and voted. I think it's an urgent question. He needs to be heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, don't make me turn off the microphone. We're talking about different things right now. I ask you again, be careful. That's what. I ask you again, Alexander Mikolayovich, be careful. We're talking about different decisions. As far as your question is concerned, thank you very much for carrying out your assignment, and I am glad that the committee is working quickly. I'm informing you that the Conciliation Council has agreed on an agreement, agreed to a well-known agreement by the Chief of the Supreme Council with the President, that the meeting of the leaders of the MP factions and leaders of the political parties who are, have their factions in the Supreme Council, but are not deputies, and with the President of Ukraine. If this conversation turns out to be small, then it will be decided to move the conversation to the entire session room. So this is going to be the algorithm. Please receive the word when you have the opportunity, not when you wish. Oh, dear, please. Behind him is the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, there are several procedural points that are absolutely set forth in our Rules and Practices of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I think that here is the most important point when we are talking about the establishment of temporary commissions of inquiry is to ensure that the full representation of all the political forces present in Parliament is made. That is, representatives of each faction must be included. The allocation of management posts should also be a priority. If we do that, then we'll be fine. Otherwise, we're gonna try and pull someone's blanket on, and there's not gonna be any explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u7	Yes, please, School Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u8	Thank you. I would also like to support the idea that there should be representatives of all the MP factions on this committee. And this representation should be proportional not to the number, but to the number of deputies of this faction, so that everything is fair enough. I think we have a very good example for this -- this is the commission that investigates the facts of political persecution. And I think it's the best norm that we've ever done. I mean the Musiyaki Commission. So that's where we're already working, there's a good enough collaboration algorithm with factions, there's a representation system. And I think, on this basis, we also need to work out the situation of how they will be represented proportionally in these commissions. Because the commission is important, it really has a national weight, and everyone has to be represented without the exception of the faction proportionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u9	Please, I made a comment for about a minute. Then Mikhailo Melniczuk has the opportunity to express himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u10	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Maybe you and I will tell you that I'm not the subject. But I would like, Adam Ivanovich, to ask such a question. For inclusion in the agenda and consideration, there is also a report by the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Are we going to vote on this issue, or are we going to vote now as we voted in favour of the creation of these committees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u11	Thank you. It's all your time. Everything will be as determined today in our order of the day. We'll vote and we'll consider it. Yes, dear fellows, be careful. I remind you again, we've included three draft regulations. In doing so, I would like to remind you that the two draft decrees are the draft decrees of the people's deputies Bespalogo, Koval and Shurma, Shufric are identical. They refer to the same question. Only the draft decree of Bespalogo, Kowala, refers to Zinchenko’s application alone, and Shurma and Shufric’s decree refers to claims made by other officials. So Zinchenko, Turkinova, Tomenka and Pritika. And the rest is the same thing. And there's a draft of Solomon's determination. Of these three draft decrees according to the Rules, or, so to speak, the decree of Yuri Solomatin was taken closest to the Rules. Because he not only drafts the decision, but he calls the specific names of the people's deputies who filed the factions who will be working on this committee. The previous draft regulations say that the factions should be invited to make such nominations and the deadline set here. So, with your permission, before I vote, I will give the author Kowala the floor. We'll figure it out later. Please, Viacheslav Kowalya’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u12	National Deputy Koval, faction of the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we have made a decree with the national deputy Bespali and have proposed the head of the commission representing the non-factional. That is, not to be a national MP representing one party or another, but to be a nonfractional person who could objectively assess the situation and manage the commission’s activities. I mean, you're not involved. That's why I'm asking both the Ukrainian people's deputies and the Supreme Council to support the Bespalo-Kwal draft decree. Second, regarding the submission of the national deputy Solomonine. From the faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, the National MP of Pojijenov was recorded. There was no consultation with him, no national MPs could be included without agreement with the national MPs. As far as the Rules are concerned, or not under the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u13	Thank you. We will now determine whether there was a national MP’s consent, for the Chairman is not conducting any research accordingly. The last name is included here. So, your honorary colleagues, please prepare yourself, all the decisions without discussion and no records. It's as clear as God's day. As God’s day is clear. Please prepare for the vote. Once again, what the author of the bill, which was introduced on September 7th, said is Koval and Bespali. The difference in these two decrees, in addition to widening around those referred to in the identification of the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Bill 8086-1 proposes to select Zaplański as chairman of the commission, and Bill 8126 proposes to select Dobkin Mikhail Markovich as chairman. Yes, I'm voting on these draft regulations in order of coming. It is up to the vote on the adoption of the decree establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the verification of the statements made by the former Secretary of State of Ukraine, Zinchenko, on the facts of corruption, on the abuse of office by individual statesmen. Registration number 8086-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:17:17]] For 217 Don't say so, it's settled. Because it takes 250 to make a decision. 150, excuse me, votes. The factions. I can't put yours because they're alternate, there can't be two heads. I'm telling you again! I'm telling you again! Dear colleagues, I'll read it, then I'll explain it to you. The Communists 55, the Ukrainian Regions 6, Our Ukraine 39, the People's Party 18, Block Timoshenko 38, Socialists 25, Ukrainian People's Party 5, Forward, Ukraine! 0, Social Democrats 0, One Ukraine - 3, Reforms and Orders - 8, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 2, National Movement of Ukraine - 15, Trudova Ukraine - 1, non-fractional - 2. Once again, dear colleagues, I repeat and remind you of what I said before the vote. There are two draft regulations with different heads, but they apply to the same issue. That's why the first decision came up with 217, it takes at least 150 votes, voted alternatively, because there can't be two heads of the commission on the same issue. Please, Shufrich microphone and we'll vote next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u14	Adam Ivanovich, we now deliberately, in my opinion, avoid investigating facts that have been announced not only by Xinchen but also by Turkin and Tomenko. In addition, the bill, which was proposed by colleague Bespalim, is under heading 8086-1 and was an alternative to 8086, which we removed from consideration. And we're asking you to vote in 8126. To him there is no alternative, he is completely alone and we ask him to put the Conciliation Council to a vote. Adam Ivanovich, I think the more the truth is, the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u15	That's very good. But if we create two committees from one question, there will be no truth. Let's compromise. Please listen carefully. Let us agree that when Kowalem and Bespalim were decreed on September 7, only Zinchenko’s statement was made when Shufrich and Shurma were passed, there were other statements. Let's just expand on the statement, as it were, to add to Zinchenka's statement and to Turkey's, Tomenka and Pritika's statements. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal. Vote. [[16:20:22]] For 245 Thank you. That's how. So once again, the point is this: it's the same fact. [[Please let go, Nestor Ivanovich, Igor Mikhailovich, hands]] We have now made the decision that was first made, voted and expanded. We can't have two commission heads, you and I have chosen Plastinski as the chairman of the commission. And we ask the factions and groups to make proposals. I repeat. Let's do this the other way. The commission takes the deputy and does the right thing. Okay. There's an offer, listen, please, I'm going to put a motion on the vote for Dobkin to choose the deputy head of this committee. Please vote. [[16:21:33]] For 228 So, dear colleagues, I remind you. We have a commission created, a commission to check out the statements we were talking about: and Xinchenko and other statements, the head of the commission, we approved the People's Placement, and we elected Michael Dobkin as your deputy. Ask the heads of factions and groups to submit representatives to this committee. Now it's about voting for acceptance as a whole, only I ask. Is there a Solomonine? Please, it's Solomatin's microphone. Answer the question of Pożynova. Please, was there a question of how did the name Zježinova come to be? Who did you agree with?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u16	With regard to the name Zyjelova Mikhail Aleksandrovitch, I was focused on his stay as part of the Mishura Valery Dmitrovich commission, and he was there representing the block “Our Ukraine”. He is now in the faction of the National Movement of Ukraine. I chose him to belong to the faction of the National Movement of Ukraine. If this is an offer, it is subject to correction by this faction, please, ladies and gentlemen, my distinguished colleagues, your proposals for another candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u17	Yuri Petrovich, sit down. Yuri Petrovich, and you, and all of the following, I make a note: no one has the right to include the name of any colleague in any document, unless he agrees with the faction manager or directly with the national deputy. We don't need to act by analogy. That's why we're taking the name Zivnova here, leaving the quota behind the People's Movement faction. Yeah, there's still change?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u18	By the name of the change or. The factions of change? Yeah, who's changed by factions? Lebedivsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u19	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that by the procedure that you have stated that the candidature should be accepted, the faction of the People's Union of Ukraine and the proposal were not agreed upon. I'm asking you to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u20	Yes, "Our Ukraine" Klukkowski is also not agreed. Yes, what faction has not yet been agreed upon? Yes, Chubarov. But from you. Please, Chubar's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u21	Rephat Chubarov, National Movement of Ukraine Adam Ivanovich, I thank you very much for your remarks to the author, but not enough. I want to talk about it. You know what the previous speaker said, the author of the bill. If you refuse your mate, well, we take him out of stock. I'd just like to say, just say again our simple indignation at what the MP is proposing in order to pianize the drafters with their own bills. And I just wish that your remark was even more, well, it's expanded so hard. You don't have to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u22	Thank you. I make even more harsh remarks and ask no one else to decide. Only according to the Rules. So, your honor, other factions don't insist on replacing their representatives on this committee? No, it's not. Then, with the exception, we ask the faction of our Ukraine and the People's Movement to submit their representatives to this commission, and the rest does not deny it. That's why I'm putting to the vote: on the adoption as a whole of the rulings with those deletions that we've just made, the decision to form a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of establishing the illegal involvement of a citizen of the Russian Federation with refugee status in Britain, in financing the election campaign of President Yushchenka's candidate. Registration number 8155. Please vote. [[16:26:27]] For 231 It's been decided. The factions, please. Yes, please. The Communists 55, the Ukrainian People's Party 38, Our Ukraine 0, the People's Party 31, Block Timoshenko 32, the Socialist Party 24, the Ukrainian People's Party 0, "Go, Ukraine!" - 20, Ukraine's Social Democratic Party - 20, "One Ukraine" - 3, Reforms and Orders - 3, Industrial and Business Party - 0, Ukraine's National Movement - 0, NDP, Trudova Ukraine - 4, Postfactional - 3. [[united]] So there's no motive. We have already voted, Peter Mikolaiovich. Before that, there are motives. Dear colleagues, therefore, what we spoke to you on the Conciliation Council we have done our part. We've done our part. Now, probably, since we've got about 17 hours left, let's probably not be able to go through the law anymore, let's probably get to the point where we're going to look at what's written in our 17th hour, which is that we're going to put into the agenda and now we're going to look at it. and have now considered the issue of the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the killing of journalists of Gongadze, Alexandrov, the violation of the lives of the national deputy of Jeliaškević and the violations of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. I would like to stress once again, my dear colleagues, the story and the essence of this question. I'm sorry, before I got to this point, I haven't been able to look at statements by the BUT faction about what to include in the commission, to include Zinchenko and Turkin's application. You'll put it in order, because there's no one there yet, no last name. So please pass and turn it on, because we're not turning it on right now. Yesterday the Conciliation Council decided, practically, unanimously, that we should hear this report with you today. But in order to withstand all the procedural rules of the Rules, I ask to vote on the inclusion in the agenda and to consider the issue: the report of the Temporary Commission on the issues of Gongadze, Alexandrov, Jeliaškević and other facts of the infringement. Please vote. Vote. [[16:29:31]] For 354 The questions are included in the agenda, and we will now consider them. Yes, please, Gregory Omelyanovich, please. The factions? Please, while Omelchenko is coming, show the factions. The factions, please. The Communists – 54, the Ukrainian Regions – 50, Our Ukraine – 40, the People's Party – 40, Block Timoshenko – 36, Socialists – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 14, Forward, Ukraine! – 20, Social Democrats – 16, One Ukraine – 4, Reform and Order – 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 10, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, Trudova Ukraine – 10, non-fractional – 10. [[United]] Grigory Omelyanovich, will you give me 10 minutes? What, what? Then please give 10 minutes of the report and 15 minutes of the report on the question. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u23	It's okay, isn't it? National deputy of Ukraine, head of the interim commission of inquiry into the circumstances of the killing of journalists, George Gongadze, Igor Alexandrov, the attack on the lives of Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Jeliaszkević and the facts of the violations committed by statesmen, the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, July 11, 2002, more than three years ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine created this commission of inquiry. The interim commission of inquiry was formed into 12 Ukrainian national deputies. During the work of the interim commission of inquiry, we worked on all the materials, information that came to the commission that involved investigating the circumstances of the murder of George Gongadze and other resonating matters. At the commission of the interim commission of inquiry in August 2002, according to the current legislation of Ukraine and the United States, I received official testimony from Mikola Melnicka about the circumstances of the audio recordings he had made in the President's office and specifically that of Georgia Gongadze. Before witnessing, Michael Melnichenko was warned of criminal responsibility for giving false evidence and refusing to give evidence, and he signed a corresponding oath, which was provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to speak only the truth when giving a witness. We have been questioned by a number of individuals, including the Ukrainian National Deputies – John Drach, Boris Olijnik, Taras Crnovil, Alexander Turchinov and a number of persons who, having listened to the audio recordings of Mikola Melnick's conversations in the President's Administration walls, have clearly confirmed what they are talking about and said that they are their voices, their conversations and the circumstances they are talking about in their conversation with the President of Ukraine. We were interrogated by witnesses who were talking about audio recordings and crimes committed against them, who confirmed the circumstances of the crime and so forth. I'll make another point. Mikola Melnichenko went through psychological expertise in the United States, was questioned on a so-called lie detector, which was 14 questions and psychologists answered clearly that Mikola Melnichenko was telling the truth. Next. A number of forensic experts in the United States and other countries have been commissioned by both the Supreme Council and today, who have clearly confirmed that the audio recordings made by Mikola Melnichenko in the conversations we have been investigating are not installed, that is, authentic. The last statement from this former Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, commissioned by the Attorney-General, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service experts conducted an expert study on George Gongadze of the President of Ukraine Kuchma and other persons who had a discussion on this issue. And experts in Ukraine have already confirmed the authenticity of these records and identified the voices of these people who spoke in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code. And we've established that there's no installation. That's what Alexander Turchinov said. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say one thing. To consider only by removing the crime committed against Georgia Gongadze from the context means to make a methodological error. Former President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, along with his environment, heads of forces and intelligence, late Interior Minister Yuri Kravchenk, former Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Leonid Derkach, former head of the DPA, Mikola Azarov, and other high-ranking individuals, have made a system of thorough monitoring of potential politicians in the country, listening to phone calls, making even various provocations about these persons, and persons who have actively participated in the opposition to this regime. serious crimes. This is all proved by the documentary images collected, which were sent after the decision of the Provisional Investigation Commission to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, in particular to the Attorney General of Piscoon, when he was first sent to the Office of the Attorney General. The Attorney General Vasiliev and the second time he became the Attorney General of Piscoon, they were once again directed to establish these crimes by the commission of inquiry. Dear colleagues, another brief statement. At the highest level, there was a multi-track plan for the destruction in Ukraine of democratic institutions, the destruction of the opposition media, the destruction of the physical and psychological most active opponents of the criminal regime. You remember what happened to the Village News, the Tovarisht newspaper, the Granies, the Information Bulletin, and so on. How they were persecuted and persecuted! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Mikola Melnichenko testified in which he stated that, early in the spring, as of May, the former head of the President's Administration, now the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, had systematically placed Kuchma on the table of the President of Ukraine and had reported to him on the material printed by George Gongadze and in his own words set up against President Kuchma of Ukraine against George Gongadze. The key was the conversation between President Kuchma of Ukraine and Head of Administration Volodymyr Litwin when, in all of these publications, the President proposed to bring a criminal case against George Gongadze, as counseled by his lawyers. To what Vladimir Litwin said to President Kuchmi: "No, you shouldn't do that. With George Gongadze I know what to do, let Yuri Kravchenko come to me." It's all on film, just like today, that doesn't call into question their authenticity, because it's confirmed by our experts. I'm underlining that. After this conversation, the president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, summoned the former Minister of Interior Yuri Kravchenk and gave the appropriate orders, you read everything I will not repeat. And almost every day Kravchenko reported on what was being done against Georgia Gongadze, other opposition journalists, opposition publications, and so on. When you've heard the audio recordings of Minister of Interior Yuri Kravchenk and President Leonidas of Ukraine in a dozen times, you'll see that Kravchenko didn't want to go violently against George Gongadze at first, and you've been stalling this moment. He reported that there was a screwdriver, and there was work to be done and so on. But Kuchma insisted on taking appropriate action for George Gongadze. You know that on September 16, 5 years ago, George Gongadze disappeared. I would also like to point out that after a conversation by the former head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Leonidas Derkac and former President Leonid Kuchma, Leonid Derkac, unlawfully ordered the launching of an operational review against Georgia Gongadze under the code name “the defendant” and, in relation to Georgia Gongadze, a complete set of operational and technical tools was launched by the Ukrainian Security Service. This fact is not established only by the commission of inquiry, but also by the commission of the Ukrainian Security Service, led by Igor Smisko. Today, this is confirmed by a criminal investigation. And so, with regard to Georgia Gongadze and other opposition and MPs and journalists, two large groups worked: the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service, and they acted openly against the constitution and illegality. One more. The audio analysis, the images of the witnesses on these audio recordings show one thing that it was a system of total trails, a complete collection of information about personal, intimate and other things relative to virtually all the national MPs of Ukraine who were in opposition, the leaders of opposition parties and the opposition media. And almost every day, whether it's Kravchenko or the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ripper reported to the President the results of the wiretaps, the surveillance, and so on. In particular, a commission of inquiry has been established, and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, which has worked for George Gongadze for more than 30 operational officers from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. What else does it matter? Give me three more minutes to draw conclusions, then ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u25	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! The interim commission of inquiry was established by persons who not only followed but also kidnapped George Gongadze at the hands of General Pukac on 16 September 2000.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u26	Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u27	The deputy head of the interim commission of inquiry, now Minister of Interior Yuri Lucenk and I were handed over the list of persons, seven or nine, and more, as George Gongadze was kidnapped. Therefore, these persons who are now under arrest and General Pukak, who is in search of him, were known by General Prosecutor Svetoslav Piscoon since September 2003. He knew about these individuals and former U.S. Attorney General Hennaday Vasiliev, who was informed by the Ukrainian Security Service by appropriate written instructions. Having taken and analysed all the evidence, the Interim Investigation Commission reached a clear conclusion, not my conclusion, but all members of the Interim Investigation Commission unanimously voted for that conclusion. Ukraine’s criminal code has such accomplices as the instigator, the organizer, and the performer. There is no customer in the Criminal Code, it is a literary, journalistic, household term. Having examined the Criminal Code of Ukraine, having analyzed every action of the persons I spoke about and analysed the evidence gathered, the interim commission of inquiry concluded that the former head of the Ukrainian President's Administration, now the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is the instigator of the crime against George Gongadze, who came into the organization of the kidnapping of George Gongadze, which led to his death. The interim commission of inquiry unanimously qualified such acts of Vladimir Lithuania, which have the characteristics of the crime provided for in article 27, this is the form of participation, and part three of article 146 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which means the instigation of the organization of the kidnapping of journalist George Gongadze, made by an organized group of individuals on a previous conspiracy that has caused serious consequences, that is, death. The actions of President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine The interim commission of inquiry unanimously qualified as the organizer of the kidnapping of Georgia Gongadze. The commission also qualified him as part of the third article 146, article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. The interim commission of inquiry concluded that the former head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Ripper, was also the instigator of the crime committed against George Gongadze and qualified him to act as Vladimir Litvina. The Commission unanimously voted to the Attorney General of Ukraine to bring a criminal case against these persons under the terms of article 27, part three, of article 46 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, namely, the organization and instigation of the kidnapping of journalist George Gongadze, who was committed by an organized group of individuals under a previous conspiracy that caused serious consequences. The Commission’s decisions, all the evidence and materials collected were sent to the Attorney General, Svetoslav Mikhajlovich, in September 2002. The same conclusions, all of which were repeatedly sent on March 3, 2004, to former U.S. Attorney General Hennady Vasiliev to bring a criminal case against the persons involved. The Criminal Procedure Code stipulates that when such materials are sent, the Attorney General is obliged to issue two rulings within a 10-day period: either to refuse a criminal offence by saying that there is no criminal offence; or to order a criminal offence against these persons. Dear colleagues, it has been more than three years. [[completed]] So far, this decree has not been passed. And I'm going to finish by answering the questions. The interim commission of inquiry unanimously accepted approval back in 2002 and 2003: to release Vladimir Litvin, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to initiate an impeachment procedure for President Kuchma of Ukraine, to release Attorney General Svoslav Piscoon. And the final conclusion is that the interim commission of inquiry found that the organizer of the assassination and beating of a national deputy was and is, according to the commission, former President of Ukraine Leonid Kuchma and former head of the Security Service of Ukraine Leonid Derkach. In addition, the Temporary Investigation Commission has established a number of serious and particularly serious crimes committed for the organization or support or assistance of former President Leonid Kuchma. All these materials, with the conclusions of the commission, are sent to the Attorney General's Office, and to Piscoun, and to Vasiliev, for criminal offences. To this day, the procedural decisions provided for by law are not made on these materials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since we agreed on 10 and 15, it will be now the other way around, for 16 minutes. So we have 10 left to ask. Sign up for questions. And while I'm on record, I'm asking, when was the last session of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u29	Yes, the last meeting of the commission was at the beginning or in the spring of this year, the distinguished Adam Ivanovich. We need to see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u30	Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u31	Today, three members of the commission of inquiry are no longer in line because they were assigned to executive structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u32	Yes, please show us who signed up. I don't know what you're talking Please, 10 minutes. Masenko, it's Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u33	Grigory Omelyanovich, it's all clear. Interesting you've told me everything, and even I've been caught up in it. But what is unclear is that the new authority is already in place. Why do you think the final solution to this question is being prolonged now, and who do you think is the initiator of this noise that this question is still not brought to a logical conclusion? And what. The continuation of this question: Are these Melnicka's film not present, this is all a question of blackmail, which they do not know. One part knows, and those who know can blackmail anyone? I say again that I am very pleased with your information, and now I understand a lot about the People's Party and something. But it's still not clear why it doesn't open up to the general public, what do you and some other people know? Why won't you let me know?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u34	Dear colleague and landowner, the question was only in one when the Attorney General, and one and the other, spoke of the fact that we do not have any official expertise on the authenticity of these films when the President of Ukraine Leonid Kuchma and the other figures of these records claimed that they were fakes when the former Attorney General of Ukraine assured us from this rostrum that they were all fakes and so on and so forth. [[I mean, Piscona and Vasilieva.]] But all those audio recordings that touched the crimes that had been committed, they were on the Internet, they were printed, and no one has any difficulty getting to know them. When we received audio recordings from Mikola Melnicken officially, an honorary colleague, and after listening to these readings, we came to the conclusion that there are audio recordings of crimes, this is the subject of investigation, and there are audio recordings of very dirty things happening in the President's office. We made the decision not to let go of the world at all. Well, when you hear the President's dirty swearing about women journalists, like who he was with, what he was doing and so on. This is going to go on in the world. So we decided to work exclusively on audio recordings, where there are facts that point to the commission of a crime. I believe that until this position is held by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Svetoslav Piscoun, on the bench of the defendants' organizers or, as they are called, the customers or other participants in this crime will not be brought to criminal responsibility. That's why I registered for 8170, and you're going to vote on it. consideration of the matter, admitting unsatisfying performance by the Attorney General of his duty to investigate the circumstances of the murder of journalist George Gongadze, the assault on the national deputy, Alexander Jeliaškević, and other resonating matters. Distrusting the Attorney General, Piscoon, as a result of his resignation from office. This draft decree is registered, and you will vote for it today. Will the matter be resolved? My personal point of view is no longer as a member of the commission of inquiry, but as a deputy. It takes strong political will. What Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko said on the stage, and what he told me repeatedly during the election campaign, when I informed him about all these materials, then everyone who did not commit the crime would be on the stand. But the precondition is the removal from the post of Attorney General of Ukraine of Svetoslav Piscona.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u35	Grigory Omelyanovich, 71 of his colleagues enrolled on the question. I'd like a cuter, officerly. Matvienkov, please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u36	Matvienkov, 55th District. Gregory Omelyanovich, I have two questions. Question one, I'm here, yes. The first question is for me, as it is for many of my voters who ask the same question, I would like to clarify. You said that on the lie detector Melnichenko confirmed that the records were made by him. Question. How, by what means and how specifically, Major Melnichenko was recorded. Did the commission find out? That's the first question. And the second question. You didn't say anything about Alexandrov. The Commission was integrated, the Commission had worked on several facts. Do you have any data on this fact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u37	Dear colleague, in September 2002, I was sent to the Attorney General’s Office by photographed technical equipment that used by Mikola Melnichenko to record audio recordings in President Kuchma’s office of employment. And let me tell you, there weren't just recorders like Toshib and the others, there was also a stationary recording device, and I'm not going to call it a brand, so it was still developed in the KGB of the USSR. And it was used to make these records. That's the first one. And all of this was transferred to the Attorney General's Office. Melnichenko was questioned in the United States and already asked questions sent by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding, on the basis of a legal agreement between Ukraine and the United States, and confirmed these demonstrations that he gave to the commission of inquiry. Now it's about Alexandrov. Literally. The interim commission of inquiry established and the material was sent to the dead Verduk, right? From. She's not a crime killer. As early as September 2002, the interim commission of inquiry made it possible for the Attorney General's Office to adopt approval, carry out a comprehensive forensic expertise, and found out which one might have been in the body, and the medics say "agent," or poison, which could have killed Alexandrov, Vereduk, in the light of his heart disease. We got a list of drugs from Ukraine's Chief Forensic Medical Expert, and I can't call them that can be used depending on the disease that can lead to severe consequences. Now the Attorney General's Office has confirmed the conclusion of the commission who is the killer, as poisoned and so forth. But the question is from Alexander, this is my personal point of view. On the bench of the defendants there is a small fish. They did not sit down: (a) who illegally framed Veredek's defendants, who forged a criminal case against him, who were overseeing the course of the investigation. The interim commission of inquiry, in view of the fact that the former Attorney General did not properly perform his duties, accepted the unanimous approval of the General Prosecutor of Piscohn to violate the criminal case against Potebenko. The decision of the Attorney General is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u38	Sergey Zizko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u39	Dear Grigory Omelanovic, please tell me who you think contributed to the fact that Puchac was released from the detention facility, and later he disappeared at the border of Ukraine and is still unknown where he is, and according to Alexander Turkinov, there were people who leaked information when the Ukrainian Security Service could have brought him back to Ukraine. Please tell me if Kravchenk's death, in your opinion, is suicide, or is it possible to kill him. Is that behind all of this is some kind of shadowy mafia-corrupted top that still might have an impact on the political-economic sabotage that is in Ukraine and is compromising today's power. And please tell me whether Mikola Melnichenko personally recorded the President's conversations, whether he was on a certain team that made these recordings for a purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u40	Thank you, I will do as Adam Ivanovich asked for at least one minute or forty seconds for three of your questions. Dear friends, dear colleague. About Yuri Kravchenk. There's an official conclusion in the pretrial investigation made by the Attorney General that it was suicide. I have my own personal as a former investigator, operative, doubts about Yuri Kravchenk's suicide. You witnessed as before I screamed directly and there were reasons: "Keep Kravchenk is the only way to save his life." I'll tell you more, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Alexander Turchinov, asked the Attorney General of Svetoslav Piscoon to give permission to detain Yuri Kravchenk. It wasn't done what you know happened. I think it only takes time to set up, really, what happened to Kravchenk. The official version is suicide. I have great doubts that it was suicide. Now more specifically. I can't say I won't. Why do I have that idea of what it's based on? The other one. It's about the Shooter. You remember when he was released when he was under arrest. I'll be honest with you, Your Honor, there was a play-off scenario, Pukač's lawyers are calling for a change in his precaution, the Attorney General's Office is not asking him to leave him in custody, the Attorney General at the time was still a Piscoon, and it's as if, from a legal point of view, they're doing it very clearly and the court is releasing Pukač from custody. Which concerns that special operation that was conducted after the detention of the Puchacht in Israel, and the leak of information that you read in the press, I didn't exactly do that. I think that's the answer the Attorney General has to give. But there are charges against the Attorney General's staff, one of the attorney general's deputies, and the Attorney General is unlikely to know about it. And relative to the Melnick. My personal opinion of what was done. One person could not make all the arrays of audio recordings, preservation, transfer from audio disks to the computer, storage, and so on. There was a group, and what role, I think, should be set up by both the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General's Office. I myself, as a security officer of Ukraine, want to know only one thing: the truth, who organized the recording, who was at what stage, who was whose role, who played what task, and take down all the questions: is he an agent of Moscow, is he an agent of the West, or is he an agent of some kind of financial and industrial group? I hope that someday you too will know the truth about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u41	Stanislav Kosinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u42	Kosinov, faction of the People's Party. Dear Grigory Omelyanovich! A few years ago, you said that Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko and Julia Timoshenko were criminals. Today you are a member of the Yulia Timoshenko Faction. Do you not feel that after a few years you are changing your mind again with accuracy? And the second question. Do you not think that, in fact, Georgia Gongadze is cynical in death, whether she is forced to die, some political forces are trying to build their electoral campaigns, including several electoral campaigns?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u43	Your questions are more of a political nature, not a legal one. I'll answer the last one. If there was no resistance in this room, and we heard a report starting in September 2002, I wouldn't be standing in front of you today in the rostrum, you'd be hearing a report from the commission of inquiry, and you'd be deciding to shut down the commission of inquiry, as provided for in the Rules. Why in just over three years, we're listening, and someone's going to play on it, as you say, the election campaign, I don't know. To the extreme, I did not use it, and I will never use it in the election campaign. Now you're talking about Lazarenko, Timoshenko and so on. Can I have your clarification, please? Called that he had acted with signs of crime, indeed, Paul Johnovich Lazarenko, not Julius Volodymyrna. And according to my material, Paul Lazarenko was convicted by the Swiss court and found guilty in the United States. But then the Attorney General’s Office, led by Warsinov, did not commit criminal cases against Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko, just as they now did. The verdict was passed by a foreign court. And to the end. You said that several political forces would play the death of Georgia Gongadze in their political election campaigns. I do not think that five years after Georgia Gongadze’s death, one of the political blocs or political parties that will go to the polls will play this out. I'm going to say the second time, based on moral and ethical considerations, you know, there's one thing that's scary, not even that maybe today they're not sitting on the bench of the defendants of this crime, and it's scary that in five years, Ukraine, as a state, its leaders, who were, haven't been able to do anything to get the remains of George Gongadze's body buried on our testimony. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u44	Yes, thank you, please, have a seat, Georgia Omelanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u45	Now. Here's another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u46	Have a seat. I've got everything. I've got everything. I've got everything. And so do the deputies. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u47	We will. Wait. It's a long way to go. Yes, we have nine. We don't have much time left, do we? Let's take 18 minutes. Please, Darling, get ready for Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, having heard the report of the Temporary Investigative Commission, would naturally have to take a decision by the Supreme Council. And that's normal. Relevant proposals and draft decrees are distributed. The only thing I want to say from what we've discussed with our colleagues is any action, any work should be finished. Based on this logic, the commission of inquiry has completed its work. And there's probably a reason for her to draw the line in her work, because otherwise, five, ten, twenty-five years in a row, we'll be listening to the same thing, the same thing. Therefore, based on this logic, there is a proposal to support the draft decision, a draft order which is issued in a room where we are supposed to draw a line in the work of the Commission and, accordingly, the Commission is transferring materials to the General Prosecutor's Office, as provided for in the legislation, to draft and to issue a decision. Because no commission of inquiry -- there were very many references to the Penal Code and to all kinds of criminal documents -- has the right to say who is to blame, because the definition of human guilt, groups of individuals, is a priority in our State only by the courts. Therefore, it is only in the courts that we have the right to speak about who is to blame and to make claims, and more so, so to speak, I apologize for the final conclusions in the form of a sentence. Therefore, based on this logic, I believe that we must today, when we discuss, draw the line and give the court, the law enforcement authorities will say the final things on this subject. Enough of this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u49	Thank you. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u50	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear compatriots, from the height of the parliamentary rostrum, I would like to request the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to answer the following questions for me and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Question number one: Why is it not taken into account the opinion of a mother who has been seriously investigating her son for five years now, and this is not being investigated? Why isn't it taken into account that Gongadze's mother doesn't want to protect the body because she doubts that the body is her son's? Why is it not taken into account that the first medical examiner stated that the corpse, which was called Gongadze's corpse, is 10 centimeters less than the corpse that should have been, in the opinion of those who began the whole story? Why is it not taken into account that there were no complete publications as soon as the story began to unfold? I demand, and all of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think, requires you, the Attorney General, to publish literally everything you have, not to take advantage of what you can use against any political opponents. Why is it not taken into account that immediately those who allegedly collected material, but it was a lie, we see, the traitor of our people, the one who was to protect secrets, now where? In the United States. Where is Gongadze's wife now? She's right over there. So everyone understands that the whole thing is inspired by the United States of America to replace Kuchma, whom I don't like very much, he's done terrible things, he's done capitalization, he's privatization, he's done everything right, but he's been swinging between Russia and the United States of America. The United States needed someone who would clearly express the interests of the United States. To this end, the coup d'état has become a state coup d'état. Why is the version of the coup d'état not being considered? It's very important. This is what the people of Ukraine need. Why can't people finally know the truth? I also ask those who inspired this. I am personally convinced that this is the United States Special Project, which has been successfully implemented. The attempt is now being made to provide a special project for the future of the new President, the pro-American-Julia Timoshenko, whose very main initiators are the pro-American policies. Please, Mr. Prosecutor, answer me. And to politicians who, well, somehow got involved and used this map, please: remember morals, remember the rule of law. Stop torturing your mother and stop torturing the peoples of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u51	Thank you. Please, Michael Melniczuk's microphone, he's made his decision. Prepare Sergey Humiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u52	I'd like a word with Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u53	Please, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u54	Dear friends! It's sad and bitter to listen to all the nonsense about the one who preferred it, the one who organized it, and the rest. Today, we need to be specific about what should be answered by those who are responsible for the death of a person. And also, I don't think it's appropriate to take an all-insane position today from a distance to an all-insane point of view that, you see, there were circumstances, there were explanations. There's no explanation, because that's the real thing. Either -- or life -- or death. People have ordered the lives of a particular journalist. Today, neither his wife nor his children nor all those who have taken action to protest against the authority that has committed such a crime must have an answer. We are all well aware that there has been an accidental delay in the investigation of both the case and the case of Alexandrov and Chernobyl and Malikov and many others so far. Finally, we have to answer these questions. There can be no risk of optical expressions, philosophical things, or that there should be a specific answer to the question of who organized the murder, who was the contracting party, whether it is not a legal term, who was the perpetrator, and who should be punished. Gregory Omelyanovich passed three draft decrees on this matter. I think we should, by giving an assessment of everything that is, and this is just a disgrace to our state, for our power, which we must wash away with our decision, only to bring to justice all the people involved in this murder. Because there's no other way out. And the other way is it doesn't give you the ability to restore trust or at least create trust in power in society. So in my opinion, we still have to vote on Decree 8169. Just not recommend to the Attorney General’s Office, but request the Attorney General’s Office to carry out an objective judicial investigation of the facts established by the temporary special commission without any names or names. The other thing that the proposal for, let's say, the release of the Chief of the Supreme Council from office is determined by a special procedure. Therefore, it is hardly necessary to put the matter to a vote today. But Decree 8169 requires us to put it to a vote and then vote and support the proposal of the author of this decree, because if we cannot wash away the disgrace from all power, no matter how much the Supreme Council needs to wash it away, because three years goes by, what should have been solved long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u55	Thank you, Sergey Gmira, for the faction of Communists. Next Mikhailo Ratushniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw an important political conclusion from this report from my point of view. Look, there's been a commission for several years. She's making a report today. The President is no longer here, many figures are not political, many figures are not physically present, and today we are looking into this case. Why did this happen? Because in its time, the Commission had not been given sufficient authority. The President blocked the Special Investigation Commissions Act, and Parliament lacked the political will to give these powers to the Commissions, based directly on the Constitution of Ukraine, so that the President could be questioned. And so we would like our political figures, if they are guilty, to fall on the prowl, not after they have gone into political or physical oblivion, but immediately from the pistachio. So I'm very concerned about this, what decisions have we made on previous issues? You see, the commission that was proposed by Solomatin, the Yushchenka campaign funding commission. These are allegations of national treason, charges of national treason by the President of Ukraine. Would the Commission, if it did not have constitutional powers to question the President, be able to take other actions under the Constitution? Take the decisions and do the work that she needs to do? Or the previous corruption commission. Because we have a lot of family talk here, but there's another person who's not named and who's accused of corruption. This is Victor Yushchenko. There is a very authoritative witness who directly accuses him of corruption. What's that? I'll answer. Name, name, identity of this witness Victor Andreevich Yushchenko. Remember, a year ago he publicly stated that he did not have the means to bail on the presidential campaign and he had to set up his own apartment. And this year, he said during a scandal with his son that his family's income was several million dollars a month. From this I conclude that the President has become a millionaire at the time he was President of Ukraine in the last six months. It's corruption. Today is what Victor Andreevich said. Jula Timoshenko was lobbyed by the Nikopolska plant in his statement. Dusty and others may also be guilty, as he said, and he says, “Boys, let’s live together!” I convinced them that for a week. There's some cat named Leopold. We've already had the President's comparisons with Leopold's cat, but here I think they'll be corrected. Therefore, all rights must be given.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u57	Mikhailo Ratushny, prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, distinguished audiences, respected radio listeners! I'm going to say from the Ukrainian People's Party that we've always stood and insisted, and we insist that in the issue of the Gongadze case, and in the facts of the killings, the persecution of people, the media representatives, a dot was placed, no matter what names they held. If evil is not punished, it can be repeated. The problem is that these facts are called too late. We think they're called too late. The lie, the lie, the lie about the murder of Gongadze led people to Midan and led people to change power because they wanted it not to happen again, and they wanted us to have the law and the truth. Therefore, in part of the legal point of referring this case to the court about the conduct of an objective investigation, of bringing everyone to the responsibility of the instigators, of the customers, without the meaning of the names there, our position is clear: the truth must be carried out here and not the simple perpetrators responsible for the crime, but the people who provoked it. And there must be a fair trial. On the other hand, I don't want to talk about political motivation. ‘ I know that the next thesis may be very distasteful for many in this room. But what I'm saying is, I want to remind you of the situation that happened in 2000. Thus, at the time, whether in conjuncture or not, Ukraine’s political leadership stated that it was intended to work closely with the West and integrate into European relations. Whether it was a conjunctura, or whether it was a real wish of the then leadership of the country, which received the support of the Ukrainian voters, could now be judged by political scientists. At that time, there is a situation where the higher leadership of the State is deserving of the killing situation of Gongadze. Today's situations, when again, in fact, the leadership of the state claims that it intends to integrate into Europe, are once again the names and again the attempt to achieve absolute neutrality of the entire leadership of the state and the corresponding political blackmail. I'd like us to avoid seeing a political element behind the scenes. Or those who wrote it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u59	Yes. Yuri Carmazin, please. I can't see. Yes. Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u60	Same thing. He questioned Zubov. Please, Valentin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, dear friends! Well, I'd like to do something without emotion to discuss this very emotional issue. And yet we want to ask the question to all of us, to the left and to the right, and to the centrists: how long are we going to disrespect our country so much that we're going to let ourselves behave as we've been on this issue for five years? First, I would like to thank Gregory Omelyanović for the serious work he and his commission have done today, a courageous report. That's the first one. And the second. Well, imagine the situation, it's the life of a young man, a famous journalist who's just been taken and killed. Well, you all know, we read the chronicle today -- every day someone gets killed, and very often law enforcement authorities get in a situation where they find a body and no witnesses, no physical evidence, nothing! In the same situation, there is evidence, there are motives, there are perpetrators of the crime in Melnichenko's traps, and we have been proving to the world five years that it is a “glorifying”! Demonstrating the whole world is an amazing disrespect for the simple truth at all. American cops just say, well, these Ukrainians are either crazy or they don't know anything about jurisprudence. Well, if these tapes are about killing a journalist, removing him, and he's killed, what other evidence do you need?Oh, my God! If this film is about beating up the national deputy, Elashkewicz, and he is beaten!Oh, my God! So what proof do we need that there's a fitting?Oh, my God! Is that not understandable to each of us? It's a marasm!Oh, my God! Let's respect ourselves. Let the orderer be President Kuchma, the executor of the Minister of the Interior -- it's scary, it's embarrassing, but let's get the courage and say it's criminals and it's a criminal. Why do we call into question the authority of the country and the people of all those who inhabit it? That's why I want to say it. Today, we must first thank the Commission, which has done serious work. Second. To set up another commission to review, who specifically blocked the recommendations and conclusions of that commission, who specifically did not allow it three years before the report? Who in particular is to blame for blocking all matters of personal responsibility of the highest public figures accused of a crime? My friends, let's learn to respect the truth, not each other anymore, not even the country, but the truth, otherwise we're no good at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. Please, one minute for the closing word and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u63	Dear colleagues! Thank you all for finally voting in favor of hearing the report. I support the proposals made by Alexander Alexander Moroz, and therefore the draft decree of 8171, which concerns the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvin, please withdraw, because it is necessary for a separate procedure to be taken in order not to be accused of violating this order. Now. Draft Decree 8169, three paragraphs: report to the commission to take note; undertake, as said by Alexander Aleksandrovich, the Attorney General’s Office, to conduct an objective investigation and so forth; give a legal assessment of Kuchmi, Lithuania, Dercach and other officials; and inform the Supreme Council of the results of the judicial investigation by November 1st; and terminate the work of the Interim Investigation Commission. [[There's a lot, they're all in materials.]] And the second draft of Decree 8170. To acknowledge the discontent of the work of Attorney General Piscoon and to express mistrust to the Attorney General, Piscoun, as a result of his resignation from his post. And literally, five seconds. Dear colleagues! This is what happened. One. The sooner we put into effect the political reform that we have done, the more we will be spared.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u64	Grigory Omelyanovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, calm down! For reasons of vote, please write down for three minutes. And we'll vote. I'm from the Bandurka committee -- there's a determination here, ladies. Please, Kuharchuk. The workpiece is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u65	Chef, Communist faction. Please give the floor to the leader of the Petr Mikolaiovich Simonek faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u66	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u67	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! The Communist faction would vote and support draft 8169-1 as the most legally accurate function of the Supreme Council in terms of decision-making. That's a first. Secondly, I would like to make some comments on the latest statement by Grigori Emilianović. This project, for which we will vote, is an examination of the authority's loyalty to the people and the promises that we have made. It is not necessary to transfer responsibility to Parliament, and Yushchenko and his team promised that the Gongadze case should have been brought before the courts two months ago. And please answer for your words. Secondly, the Omelchenka report convinces me that we, the Communist faction, were right when we said that Kuchma and Yushchenka's regime was the same. And third. The cynicism with which the fighters claim: they voted against political reform and today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u68	Please, workman.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, we must give up the political crackdown on this issue now. This is a matter of honor for our nation, so we must unite and vote with certainty. In a way, I felt that this was the mechanism of state power when my assistant and the Gongadze brigade took Alexia Dollsky out into the woods, forced themselves to dig a hole, savagely beat up, and set fire to this band of subversive offices. And at three o'clock in the morning, the office had rooms. And if the neighbor dog hadn't got a bite, the whole house would have been burned. It's a shame when President Leonid Kuchma did such things. And our position is to separate ourselves from such a former authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u70	And thank the dogs. Bandoon, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u71	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement considered four times the materials of the Interim Commission of Inquiry and the draft decree prepared by Gregory Omelanovic. On four occasions, we recommended rejecting these rulings as legally unfounded. The following commission is not in a position to give qualified signs of action. But it was another draft of the decree. This draft decree is a report from the commission's head of staff to the well-known, the materials to the prosecutor's office can be voted on, the committee agrees. I mean 8169-1. And last of all, the Attorney General has a special procedure, and this should be his report, not just his name. Remove this determination, reject it, not consider it today. We are legalists, and we must obey the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u72	Please, Andrew School, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u73	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to stress that, in principle, we can agree with the previous speaker. I think Gregory Omelanovic said clearly in his speech all he needed to hear from the Ukrainian people. Now the main thing is action, or ball, in the field of the Attorney General's Office. Let's get him over there. But there's only one thing I want to pay attention to, the author of decrees 8169 to Slabenko. You're the only one. It says “to convey to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, ” Adam Ivanovich. Well, there's no head material, there's a temporary commission of inquiry. So you have to take the questions away and, in principle, agree with this situation. The main thing for us is to declare the position of the Supreme Council, which is that we hand over all the materials and the ball to get the Attorney General's game started. She's got to make conclusions, she's got to call the shots, she's got to open criminal cases. And if there are reasonable grounds, let him do so. As a legislative body, we have fulfilled our function.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u74	Please, Weakness, the author. Slabenko's microphone, a minute, the author of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u75	Sergey Slabenko, faction of our Ukraine, election district number 19. The design of my determination really has a slight inaccuracies. I would like to point out that the word “Heads” should be removed, i.e. the transfer of materials to the interim commission of inquiry. That's the first one. It's different. I pay attention to two of my fellow nationals. The following commission, within the framework and in the manner defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council Rules, took legal action. To note that it would be advisable for the Attorney General’s Office to carry out an objective trial, as recommended by Gregory Omelyanovich, is useless. It is the responsibility of the Office of the Attorney General to conduct his own investigation properly. Just like hearing reports, we're entitled to any minute, if we think this is a question, there's a need for the Supreme Council. At the same time, I think it's necessary to say that the complex of work has been carried out, and there is a need to put an end to the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I understand that we are desirable, but we've already violated the already mindful and unimaginable rules on this issue. 45 minutes, and we've been looking at more than an hour. So be careful. Be careful. I'd like to sum up what we're talking about here. Indeed, you and I have five draft decrees, five draft decrees. I'm completely in solidarity with those colleagues who talked about that some of these regulations don't have the right to live exactly when considering this issue, because they provide for different procedures. [[And Alexander Alexander emphasized this, and Gregory Omelyanovich then supported it, and Alexander Markovich Bandurka]] The procedure for the Head, the appeal of the Head or the intercessors is quite different. There's a secret vote, there's 300 votes, there's 150 signatures to get started, well, and a lot more. The procedure relating to the Attorney-General, if I am not mistaken, is prescribed in the Procurator's Act, which also states when the Supreme Council may express mistrust to the Attorney-General when it hears his report. We haven't heard from the Attorney General, so of course we can't raise the issue of the Attorney General with you right now, according to the law. Thus, two alternative draft regulations remain. Draft decree 8169 of the Omelchenka People’s Deputy, which was improved by Alexander Moroz and was accepted by Omelchenko. And an alternative draft of Slabenko and Ulyanchenko's ruling. Again, I would like to hear the suggestions made by the committee responsible that we cannot commit to anything by the Attorney General. This is one thing, and another, if we owe the Attorney General's Office something, let's ask the question, and why is the Attorney General's Office not doing his job? And the second. We'll support what the school said, and agreed with the project's author, which, in fact, was a mistake. Not the head materials, but all the materials that are in charge of the commission of inquiry to be handed over to the Attorney General's Office. I'm talking to Gregory Omelanovic. Maybe we're taking yours. I have a motion for a ruling, shall we vote next? Please, Omelchenko microphone. Well, with motive, we've just talked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the interim commission of inquiry has the right to make legal decisions, and they are binding or not, the Constitution states that the conclusions of the commission are not binding on the pretrial investigation and the court, and the commission has the right to indicate, if any, the signs of the crime. Now I ask you to vote in favour of my ruling. Let it be the word “recommend” to the Attorney General's Office to conduct an objective trial and to give a legal assessment of the materials. The report is to be taken into account and the commission of inquiry stopped. If this ruling does not reach 226 votes, I ask to vote in favour of an alternative draft. It's almost the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u78	Thank you. Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! How much are we going to cheat on ourselves? For five years now, everyone knows everything. The D.A.'s long known. All follow-up actions have been performed. We've got to put all the dots above the "and." We are the Supreme Council. We trust and assign the Attorney General to this position. We must demand that by first November he answer those questions that everyone knows that there will be no speculation in the elections, that it be understood to people that there is power in Ukraine and that the specific crimes are committed by the law. So the project that Gregory Omelchenko proposed should be voted on. Only instead of the word “recommend” “require” from the Public Prosecutor's Office because it sets the date of November 1st to give information to the Supreme Council. Then it will be the word of the Supreme Council, and it will not, I'm sorry, be debauchery, which does not understand why it is accepted, but only to remove the matter from the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u80	Yes, dear fellows, we will be voting in the order of coming, depending on the exchange we have had with you. I'm voting for acceptance. From the motives we've already talked about. I'm voting on the basis of the draft decree, registration number 8169, author of the national MP Omelchenko. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:35:54]] Z-78. Not accepted. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 13, Communists – 0, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 0, “National Party” – 0, “Timoshenko’s Block” – 17, Ukrainian People’s Party – 10, socialists – 25, “Go, Ukraine!” - 0, Social Democrats – 0, “Ukrainian One” – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 9, “Industry and Entrepreneurs Party” – 0, “Ukrainian People’s Movement” – 0, “Urban Ukraine” – 1, “NDP – 1, “No” – 3. [[United]] I'm voting on adoption as a basis and as a whole as a decision, because there was no amendment to it except one amendment to take away the materials of the head but to pass on the materials of the Interim Investigation Commission. Decision: The report of the Head of the Commission, Omelchenka, should be based on the recommendation of the national MP, Omelchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u81	As far as I know, I'm sorry, as far as I'm concerned. Surrender, recommend to the National Deputy that the materials of the Interim Commission be transferred to the Attorney General’s Office and cease the authorization of the Interim Investigation Commission. Bill number 8169-1. Please vote. We're voting as a whole. [[17:37:23]] For 342 It's been decided. I repeat, don't shout! There were no additions to that decree, and it was voted a decree. The factions. 5547. I'll say it again. The Communists 55, the Ukrainian Regions 47, our Ukraine 39, the People's Party 43.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u82	Block of Timoshenko – 34, Socialist Party – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 29, Forward, Ukraine! – 20, Social Democrats – 19, One Ukraine – 4, Reforms and Order – 13, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, National Movement of Ukraine – 15, NDP, Trudova Ukraine – 9, non-fractional – 10. [[United]] I'm gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u83	There were no comments to this decision, so I put it in general. Then tell me. Question completed. Let's move on to the draft law on development. There aren't any, there aren't any.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u84	A draft Law on the Emancipation of Persons’ Memory is being considered. Take up your parliamentary remarks, Mr. Respectable, cursive. The draft of the Law on Extinguishing the Memory of Persons Killed as a result of Political Repression, registration number 7475. He reports on the responsibility of Justice Minister Zvaricz Roman Mikhailovich. Please, Roman Mikhailovich. I would like to point out once again that there are no discussions. Do not rehearse, please allow the minister to speak. Roman Mikhailovich, please take your seats. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u85	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Extinguishing the Memory of Those Who Die as a result of Political Repression. The bill is designed to ensure that the memory of those who have died or died as a result of military and political repression in and outside Ukraine is maintained. The main tasks of adopting the bill are to improve and properly coordinate activities within the executive branch of local self - government of enterprises, institutions, and public organizations in the matter of the eternalization of the memory of those killed by the soldiers. The project determines that military and internal affairs personnel who have died or perished during hostilities, armed conflicts, and so on are subject to eternal memory. Persons recognized as victims of political repression, persons recognized as victims of Nazi persecution, participants in international peacekeeping operations, and so forth. The main forms of memorializing the dead are the arranging and preservation of burial sites, the setting up of tombs, memorial buildings, and other memorial signs, the arranging and preservation of separate areas historically linked to the memory of the dead, the handling of state records of the burial sites, and so forth. The bill determines that a state policy aimed at memorializing the memory is carried out by specially authorized bodies for the eternalization of the memory of the dead. It is proposed that a state-level interdepartmental commission be established to commemorate victims of war and political repression at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The cost of carrying out work related to the search, burial, arranging, maintaining, preserving, and accounting for the burial sites of the deceased, which are carried out under State programs, is financed by the State Budget of Ukraine and other sources. The adoption of this law will promote the State’s obligation to honour the memory of the victims of war and political repression and will create conditions for Ukraine’s proper implementation of its international treaties to perpetuate the memory of the victims of war and political repression. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u86	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, no questions? Is it? Please sign up. As long as Roman Mikhailovich goes to the rostrum, sign in. Please, three minutes. Please, Matthew Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u87	Roman Mihailovich, well, it's new when we bring the victims of political repression and the victims of hostilities into one pile. These are totally different categories, so the relationship will be completely different. Well, my first question is, why are we doing this? And the second question is, what do we want to do with this law: raise the respect of our colleague for the monuments and colleagues of the memory places that were killed during the war that died during, well, some political action, or do we just want to take back to the shield what you're trying to achieve, that is, rehabilitate UN-OPA soldiers?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u88	Well, I'm right away, so there won't be any speculation around the last part of your question. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is the subject of the legislative initiative, did not at all mean any conjecture, well, adventurous way for you to suggest that we should or, more faithfully, the legislative body of the State should take a decision on the eternal memory of the U.N.O.P.A. soldiers. If you asked me my personal opinion, I could say it to you outside this rostrum, because I am not authorized to answer it at all. The bill, instead, developed within the framework of our international commitments, which we have undertaken, in particular in the context of the Council of Europe, and our international obligations under the legal instrument adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, have become in the same context the two categories that you have spoken about. That's why it's not our invention, we're just following the way that this is being handled in Europe. What is our goal? I think we should all be here in solidarity. If a nation cannot express deep respect for those who have been willing and given what is most precious to man, that is, their lives, as the Bible says: giving their lives to their friends is of the highest value. If the state is unable to fulfill this responsibility, I feel that such a state does not respect itself. And this bill is designed solely to ensure that, in spite of all our political preferences or ideological orientations, we still, in fact, honor those who gave up the most expensive, nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u89	Thank you. Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u90	Dear Roman Mikhailovich! Please tell us in the bill, on the one hand, that the state honors the memory of our fellow countrymen such as Mikhailo Gruszewski, recognizes itself as heir to the traditions of nation-building established in his day, but, on the other hand, refuses to regulate legislatively the issue of honouring the memory of KRUT heroes, dozens and hundreds of Ukrainian patriots, members of their families who were repressed in 1917, 1921, and up to 1945. The bill also completely ignores the need to honor the memory of the victims of political repression, the fighters for national liberation in Western Ukraine in the 21st to 39th years before the war, and it is not clear why we can perpetuate the memory of the victims of wars, political repression only last century, because perhaps the inhabitants of Baturin, destroyed by Alexander Menshikov's army, were not victims of political repression? Were they not the rebels of Karmaluq, Doubush, the Ironborn, the Gonts, and their families, or the Ukrainian Gehtmans and colonels who were exiled to Siberia?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u91	Thank you. I would ask, dear friends, that we do not mix sin and righteousness here. This bill does not aim to resolve a question that has been the subject of very conflict, confrontational situations in this session room on many occasions. If that's the case, this bill can be considered basic. To that end, if the legislator decides that the same categories of individuals that I consider to be heroes should be properly marked, then the bill provides an opportunity to perpetuate their memory. The point is that there is a gap in Ukrainian legislation today. We have a built framework mechanism to honor our heroes by the state. And that's why we're talking today about what's hard about heroes, because the issue itself is not legally settled. I mean, in answer to your question, aside from being able to personally agree with your positions, I ask you to move away from such reflections and instead to consider this bill as one that, in fact, is of a fundamental, fundamental nature that creates conditions for the state to be able to honor those people who are so highly respected by the state. That's all we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u92	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich, please sit down. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw your attention to the document that's been set up, and this is not the first time we've considered the bill. This document was once rejected. The committee carefully considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. We studied him very carefully. And I would like to make a few suggestions, including those that have already spoken in questions and answers about this bill. First of all, I would like to emphasize once again that the perpetuation of the memory of those who died as a result of wars and political repression is really slightly different categories. As they say in Odessa, these are two big differences. Especially this difference is to be noted in the year of the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. It's different. Probably not the best time to accept this document is exactly the year of the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. I am accompanied by two participants in the Great War of Homeland in the Hall of the Supreme Council. And what is happening today? Today's draft of the National Budget of Ukraine, which is being submitted tomorrow, will be considered in the participants of the Great Homeland War, in the people who have conquered fascism, taking away housing and utilities, and at the same time, we are adopting the law on the perpetuation of victims of political repression. Excuse me, how does it feel to look at things like this? And the third. Dear Romane Mikhailovich, I think you should agree with me that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should introduce another document, amending certain laws of Ukraine. Because the three laws of Ukraine regulate these issues. That is, the Nazi Persecution Victims Act is the first on the perpetuation of victory in the Great War of 1941-1945 and the rehabilitation of victims of political repression. So we have three laws. We should take action under three existing laws, not create a fourth. This is an additional package, which has helped the committee to examine the matter very carefully. Thus, the committee’s thoughts were divided. And the committee brought this document to the Supreme Council's attention without its conclusion. As a member of the Communist faction, I believe that this document is not in time and we cannot support it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss this? We will. Yes, we have very little time left. Yeah, well, come on, with your permission, I'm going to continue for a few minutes to finish this question and 12 minutes to discuss it. Okay? Please, Solomonine, the Communist faction. After him, Terrence. [[Taran]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, in that document, in the order of the day that was given to us today, there has been some mistake and, indeed, the law there has been formulated on the victims of political repression. Although in the very body of the bill, war and political repression have resulted. So first of all, I'd like to stress this and draw our common attention. On the other hand, there is some misunderstanding as to how appropriate the bill is now, because there are already three bills that Peter Stepanovich Cibenko mentioned in this rostrum: the victims of Nazi persecution, the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine and the perpetuation of victory in the Great War of 1941-1945. It seems settled there, but we need to integrate ourselves and move on to European standards on this issue. But at the same time, we would also have to ensure that European funding for the execution of this great mission of responsibility is provided to the dead by the State and our society. But in the State Budget, they say rats don't even find anything, and we try to make that commitment. But I do have these questions, they come up. Political repression. George Gongadze, mentioned today with you, is he a victim of political repression? Alexandrov? And the people who died when they went to the 2004 elections and didn't get to those polling stations, and they were only officially mentioned in November-December. Are they victims of political repression or not? That's why the bodies of the law are talking about the victims of political repression being those who died during famines and deportations, and that's where we have a very large gap in how and who we're going to involve in this category of the dead. So I think the conclusion was faithful to Peter Stepanovich Zibenka, and we need to separate political repression from those who died as a result of the soldiers. In general, we would have to talk about the victims of war and not only the military but also the peaceful inhabitants and, above all, the children who died during the years and during the wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u96	We've already passed the law on wars. Taran, please, the faction of Block Timoshenko, followed by George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u97	Victor Terrence, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Dear friends, I'm going to turn to the body of the law, but first I'm going to use Adam Ivanovich, with your permission, literally two minutes for a small replica. Today, when a vote was taken in favour of the candidate Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, the Head, said very clearly, I ask you to block the cards of the missing deputies. If the people’s deputies’ cards are not blocked, he specifically named the names of Joulinsky, Klukkowski, and others, they will not be counted. But here's a transcript of Lithuania's performance. Here's my vote paper. And after that vote they voted in favour of both Joulinsky and Klukkowski. The secretariat explained to me that it was impossible to block the cards. I don't know if it was the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whether it was said honestly or in public, but I'm asking the media that are still here and every one of us who voted for Yehanurova, not 223 men, but at least 221, at least 221. So Joulinsky, Klukkowski, although their printing of "Our Ukraine," dear friends, you did, they weren't in the hall, and that came out of the performance. That's the first one. Now back to the law. Clearly, this law is necessary, clearly necessary, and it regulates the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and local self-government authorities aimed at taking steps to bury dead soldiers and victims of political repression. I just want to add that there is such a moral category, said Adam Mickevich once again, that as a nation as a nation treats its cemeteries, it means that it will be possible to say whether this nation will have a future or not. And that's why this law is necessary. It has long been necessary to create a pantae for those who died from political repression, the same bullhorn where the caves were killed by Ukrainian peasants, the same Winnica when the Soviet army retreated and shot in prisons and so on and so forth. But we will vote in favour of this law. But I want to say that I'm very sorry, very sorry that this law really doesn't include a category like the UPA Soldiers. However, written enquidists as interior workers are the ones who created this terror. But the UPA soldiers who defended Ukraine are not there. I want to say that the inhabitants of both West Ukraine and other places and themselves will organize the UPA soldiers' graves. And shall bring them flowers upon their graves. But our obligations, as nations, as people who respect themselves, who honor God in the end, would be to put UPA soldiers there. And finally, we need to think about getting out of all the cemeteries of the world, as civilized nations did, our heroes and the dead Simon Petluri, and Eugene Konovaltz, and Olesia Candibi, and others, if we think about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u98	Yes. You were asking the Head. You've read the transcript correctly. Why do you blame him? First they read it correctly and then you blame it. Please, George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u99	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Or was it at the time of the adoption of a bill on the perpetuation of the memory of those who died as a result of political repression? No doubt it's on time. And even in a year of 60 years of great victory, because innocently murdered, their blood calls upon us to resolve this problem as quickly as possible. Those who were destroyed in exile, those who died as a result of other acts of political execution, should be respected as soon as possible by the Ukrainian people in an independent Ukrainian state, including the victims of the 32-33 famine. In its time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Order, and this decision was adopted, following the initiative of the Ukrainian People's Party to commemorate the victims of the famine in 32-33 with the establishment of a corresponding monument in Kiev, where an unfinished house is now being built next to the Marien Park and prepared for the new Ukrainian oligarchs. It was in that area that the Ukrainian People’s Party offered a memorial monument to the victims of the famine in 32 - 33 C.E. The ruling of the Supreme Council was successful, not executed in paws, and no one was responsible for the failure to execute the decree. And we have shame at the edge of the Mariana Park, and we are sad to see what they wanted to do there to build the new nuvaries of the modern historical era. That's why I'm calling once again on behalf of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party to turn my votes in support of this bill. He may not even establish our faction in full volume, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, he is too general and a framework bill, but at least in such a way we will fulfill our duty to the tens, hundreds of thousands, millions of innocently murdered our citizens, whom our blood calls and calls upon us to finally honor their memory, the memory of those families, the memory of their descendants, who are still alive, and they also appeal to their ancestors to be properly respected by an independent Ukrainian State. The Ukrainian People’s Party hopes that the decision of the Supreme Council, which has not been executed, will finally be analyzed why it has not been executed and that those who have failed to comply will be held accountable. We support acceptance in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u100	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u101	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, radio listeners! I would like to say that, if we vote today, and the bill will be adopted, the funds will be provided in the 2006 budget, because we always take the building, and then we search out how to give those builders for the monuments and so on, and the state as far as we are concerned. And yet, by adopting this bill, and the Supreme Council will put a dot on whether or not there have been political repression. And when this law was passed, it is so. And certainly we need to go back not only yesterday, but to look back at the history of Ukraine, so that we can still put a dot and in the future not to allow what is still happening today in the territory of our country of Ukraine. And today, the President of Ukraine said that he was in solidarity with what might have been. And as President, he guaranteed that that would not happen. And the President needs to be trusted. But what I would like to say is that, honourable colleagues and honourable friends, despite the fact that you and I are going to vote for this bill today, as soon as we've been in solidarity, we haven't done anything about Gongadze. We practically understand that we voted the verdict, as we voted nothing, no decision – the colleagues correctly say that it is no decision. Society won't get an answer on all the questions, it won't get an answer. And so let those who voted for no decision understand that you can only play in the hall – you don't have to play with the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u102	Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u103	You don't have to warn me, I know everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u104	Well, that's very good of you to know, but you have to stick to it. Yes, Your Honor, yes. The miner, one minute. Rabbit after him, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u105	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Dear colleagues, there can be no language here without combining in this law the victims of political repression and those involved in the wars. I am not surprised that the heirs of former organizers of political repression are so opposed to this law. With the rest, the victims of war are also victims of political repression, because very large losses were under the wise guidance of some party. That's why he's needed. He is imperfect because, in fact, the employees of internal affairs are listed here and their victims are not identified, including in my home country. I think that the interministerial commission is a temporary body, a draft law is already being drafted and a draft presidential decree on the National Memory Institute is being drafted, and it will really be dealing with these problems. And now, in the first reading, this bill needs to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u106	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u107	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I support my one-party friend, George Manchulenka, in having to adopt this bill. And, dear friends, let's not speculate, let's not see any evil ideas in this bill. This bill will allow us to honor individuals -- all of them, in fact, who died both as a result of wars and political repression. But I would like to see this bill separate into a separate chapter -- those are victims of hunger. We must not forget this page in the history of our people. And it must be understood that we are very bad descendants, if we do not honor the sacrifice today, these sacrifices are properly done. Without honoring our victims, we condemn our nation to repeat such things. So, honourable people's deputies, let's not blame the soul who's been here, what we have, you know, the norms in other bills, we'll take this framework document, we'll work on it substantively. Then we're going to adopt a bill that would regulate organ activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u108	Cooking, one minute, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u109	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, when we drafted this bill at the Ministry of Justice, we probably forgot that it would be considered by politicians who are members of individual political parties, each of whom has certain ideological positions that emerge from certain historical traditions. I'm sitting here listening to you. I don't think you've read the bill. There's no politics here. There's only one way to do the government's debt to those people who owe this highest honor to the state. Nothing more. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is not going to resolve the conflict that has been going on for years in this session hall. As far as specific comments are concerned by the profile committee. Dear Mr. Peter, you have also forgotten that the bill refers to a category of persons that is not at all part of the three laws that you spoke of. For example. An army officer who died in his duty to the state in a peacekeeping operation. How can it be honored in the context of the three laws? Impossible. And this is a question of legal technology. From. If for technical reasons we postpone what we should have done a long time ago, then it seems to me that we are, in fact, somehow unaware of the debt that we all owe to ourselves together in power, to these generations, to those people who really have given the highest value. So I beg you to put aside your political preferences, put aside all the accumulated emotions that you carry in connection with certain conflict situations with your ideological rivals, and please accept this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u110	Thank you. Shall we vote? With motive? Sign up for the reasons for the vote. Three minutes. Please point to the board. Petrenko. After him, Bespallian. Petrenko, Simonenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u111	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! The Communist faction will not vote in favour of this bill and asks you not to support it. Why? First. Indeed, the status of the political victims of the gang and those who died by the hands of the bandits is to be determined. This is the first time. Oh, that's different. We have new political repressions that began during the new power of the Yushchenka regime. Because under the new power of nationalists, socialists are the victims of political repression, there are five or six million schoolchildren who are forced to be like the corrupters of today's regime under the law of history approved by the Ministry of Education. The photos are shown, and it's all taken into account that this regime needs to be maintained, because it's the regime that these corruptionists have set up. This is a disgrace to the people of Ukraine! Similarly, the same teachers are forced to teach a false, distorted history, and at this they demoralize and destroy the spiritual world of the child. That's why I'm offering no support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u112	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u113	Boris Bespalij, Yushchenka Block "Our Ukraine". My dear colleagues, with regard to the draft of this decree, I think the acting minister of justice here has spoken so logically that it is difficult to deny. This is our common act of gratitude to the past generation. Well, our small contribution to the honor we owe our predecessors. I think it's even hard to discuss here, and, of course, we're just morally, morally, I stress, we have to vote. The other question is that one legal act cannot solve everything at once. And really, we have to honor other people who are simple. But it must be the subject of other regulations. This is no reason not to honor these people. I mean, we're just not closing that question. And finally. I think it's on these things that we should feel our national national consolidation, not look for a basis for opposition. I'd like everyone to vote in favour, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u114	Please, Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u115	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear friends, we have organized German cemeteries. We organized Polish cemeteries, Warlatt in Lviv. We honor the blood of all nations. The only one. Ukrainian, because it's Ukrainian. This is not happening anywhere in the world. I want to say that this law is truly imperfect. He doesn't even set us up. But at least in the first reading. At least in the first reading, we should accept it if we are a civilized nation, if we feel the parents of whose parents we are children, because unfortunately, if I arrive in 20 seconds, we sometimes don't respect it, because even today, a candidate in Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Ehanurov said that Shevchenko was busy. I mean, it can never be an engagement, someone else is busy, but it's not Chewchenko and it's not our ancestors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u116	Yes. Thank you. Time's up. We'll vote. I'll put it to a vote. Replica, please. It was called a faction, let's, let's afford something like a replica. Boki, please. A replica of a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u117	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Here is the conspiracy, now on the other hand, called some mythical power of nationalists and socialists. Once again, they are called history textbooks, which are promoted by some corrupt people and so forth. So I have to say that these textbooks are written long before the present authority. ‘ I don’t know where there are those who saw the nationalists, the socialists. This one. Of the foolish. This slogan is written to this crazy one, to these crazy ones, so slogans, you know? That's why I'm characterizing words like, you know, in the song, "Hello, hello, bye, bye."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m1.u118	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting for acceptance as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on the eternal memory of those who died as a result of political repression, 7475. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:14:39]] For 158. By factions, please: Communists: 0, “Ukraine” 1, “Our Ukraine” 43, National Party – 7, Timoshenko Block – 30, Socialists – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 22, “Forward, Ukraine!” - 4, Social Democrats – 0, “Ukrainian One” - 1, “Reforms and Order” - 8, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 15, NDP, Trudova Ukraine – 1, non-fractional – 2. Thus, the bill is rejected. Please work on this, because it's really the right thing to say about the participation of those who take part in peacekeeping operations, but Roman Mikhailovich, Roman Mikhailovich, it's the right thing for those who participate in peacekeeping operations, but they don't fall under political repression. There is, too. There is, too. So let's work. The bill was rejected. This evening’s session is closed. Thank you all for your fruitful work. Stratovitch is my responsibility in the next session.
