ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Let's register. [[10:03:08]] There are 361 national deputies in the hall, but I can see that some have not yet arrived. Please repeat now. No, not again. Somebody help the General. Yeah, we'll re-register later. So far, honourable national deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the eighth session of the Supreme Council today, we are scheduled to hold another government day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By a decree of 22 September 2005, the Supreme Council determined the subject of today's consideration of the state of emergency on Ukraine's highways and urgent measures to improve road safety. One of the wrongdoers today will be discussed at our morning plenary meeting. Before we move on to our daily routine, let's welcome. Today we have two nouns: Philenko Vladimir Pilipovich, who has completed all noon, and Javorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich. [[Applause]] Are you ready to re-register? Yes, turn on the "Race" system. We'll register again. [[10:05:12]] 367 national deputies registered. Yes, you have thematic materials delivered to Government Day. Please see, especially those who will be involved in the discussion. Let's build our work next time. We're going to build our work this way. We will hear reports from two ministers: Minister of Interior Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka and Minister of Transport and Communications Viktor Vasilovich Bondar. They'll answer. Report accordingly to the Minister of the Interior for 20 minutes, the Minister of Transport and Communications for 10 minutes, and each of them for 45 minutes in writing and oral questions of the National Deputies. The presentation by the profile committee is 15 minutes. After discussing the matter with us in the morning meeting, we will conclude the Government Day. This is how our work schedule is planned. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that the first reporter is on the way right now, he is on the service line just outside Kiev, but he will come up and take part in our Government Day and want to speak, so let's move on, start with the Minister of Transport and Communications, and then Lucenko will come along and give him the floor. Yes, please invite the Minister of Transport and Communications. Victor Vasilovich Bondar. Please. Let us welcome Victor Vasilovich to this position and wish him success in a challenging field of economic activity. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u2	Thank you so much for saying hi. I think that no one has any doubts as to how relevant the question that is being considered today, what the situation has arisen on Ukraine's roads, which situation has arisen with emergency. I fully support the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, who has repeatedly talked about the serious consequences of automobile accidents, and I will not repeat statistics, just to say that the relative number of deaths we have is 7-10 times higher than in the developed countries of Europe. At the same time, the European Union is adopting a programme to reduce the death rate in the DTR by 50% by 2010. In fact, the time has come for us to take decisive steps in this direction. We just need to radically change the emergency situation. We're only looking at this one way of improving the road traffic system, and first of all, we need to support, I think, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the need to increase the responsibility for violations of traffic rules. For example, in 1990 the DAI authorities had all the powers involved. The authority to regulate traffic, impose large fines, and this same year, the maximum number of citizens was 9 000,616. Some of the DAI’s fines functions were cancelled in May 2001. As we know, after a year and a year and a half, the accident even decreased. It turns out that the fines on the spot are not the main cause of the increase in emergency. High accidents are caused by a complex of security management weaknesses, and in this situation, the Mintranslink and the Ministry of Internal Affairs are making efforts to correct the situation. Recently, in this Hall, you, the distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, were adopted in the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Automobile Act. 70% of the articles in this law directly or indirectly refer to security and establish new rules on the transport market. The Ministry of Transport and Communications asks you to adopt this law as soon as possible. It will allow you to solve the immediate security problems of general use transport. The Professional Committee also recommended the prescribed law for consideration and adoption in the second reading. This year, there's been an auto-inspection. The task of this inspection is to put order on the transport market and to prevent carriers who do not meet the requirements of legislation and who cannot safely transport passengers. Her activity has already had a positive impact on the work of motor vehicles, and the accident rate has decreased by 8 percent. But today we still have this issue to settle. I can give you some questions about statistics. See, for the 100,000 carriers that now exist in Ukraine that are engaged in the transport of citizens, only 57,000 have received proper certification today, obtained licenses and are engaged in this business legally. So almost half of the carriers today simply don't have legal conditions for existence and this leads to the situation we see on the roads. Yet this is part of the problem. We need to look at the entire security management flaws. Legislation does not set tasks and does not define responsibility for reducing accidents. The UN General Assembly resolution decided that mobility cannot be achieved at the cost of life and health. The highest achievement in this area is made by Sweden, which has simply adopted a program that declares zero mortality. A person can be wrong, the system has to take that into account -- its main principle. We propose to create a road safety coordination commission that will simply coordinate the activities of these bodies at an interdisciplinary level, set up procedures on road transport, on roads. The second reason, in our opinion, is the lack of order to investigate the causes of traffic accidents. If a single body is being trained today for the preparation of drivers, for the technical examination, for the admission of vehicles to traffic, for the monitoring of traffic regulations, it is probably not appropriate for it today to also be entrusted with investigating the causes of road traffic accidents, since this body is simply the most interested in contributing to, in its favourable conclusions, the findings of investigations. Or, if this body is conducting an investigation, it should not accept tests in drivers, carry out technical examinations, for it never recognizes the reasons behind the accidents associated with the technical condition or other issues. As long as we don't distribute the functions of executive, control organs, we'll always have non-objective statistics just when it's 97, 97 percent of the reasons for walking and owning the means of transport. I can give you the following figures: for today, because of the technical failures of transport vehicles, only 1% of them are in accidents with official statistics. At a time when in civilized countries, even in their roads and in their technical survey and modern automobiles, this is up to 20%. Another issue is that road traffic rules are not effectively monitored. We support the IMF's proposals on the need to introduce new radars, photofixes of all revenue, and so forth. It is necessary to create a single register of traffic violations. And in our view, we need to introduce new, simple, stimulus measures. When insurance companies issue insurance policies and get paid for these policies, depending on the number of offences committed by drivers that resulted from these offences. And so we're going to create just an economic incentive for motorists, as little as possible to violate traffic rules, to have as few disputes as possible with DAI employees. The driver’s training system needs to be strengthened. We need to take a course, take a course, and make arrangements for this activity when young drivers are simply teaching the rules of behavior in non-standard situations and so forth. Another messenger, chief: We need to develop disaster medicine as quickly as possible. We know that it will help draw out the number of people who have been in an emergency when the main event takes place within 15 to 30 minutes of the accident. We must have a rapid response to such events. We know that one of the causes of an accident is also the unsatisfactory condition of automobiles. In the past year, Kravtodor eliminated 119 dangerous sites, where the largest concentration of accidents. But there are still about 760,000 left today. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider it necessary simply to reform the road safety management system. In our opinion today, the State Inspectorate, the State Inspectorate, for example, in Germany, France, England, the EU, the US, Japan, I will not count all countries, the car registration and technical supervision functions are divorced. And we propose to support such a proposal, to translate the functions of periodic technical inspection of transport equipment into accredited technical service stations. The executives have simply to undertake accreditation of normal stations of technical examination, such as BMW, Audi, Mercedes and others, who will simply be able to perform this function and who will be responsible for the condition of the cars they carried out the technical examination. They will themselves keep a register of technical reviews, issue relevant papers that will support the conduct of the technical review, and be responsible for the collection of funds for the budget. And that eliminates the MREO queues, which will allow citizens without a line under normal conditions to undergo a technical examination and obtain documents. And the others. In this case, DAI creates a situation where they are able to present a claim to the technical inspection station for the improper preparation of the car and its operation on the road. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the two key links that I have said is the introduction of economic incentives, i.e. the insurance system, when the car owners depend on the number of offences. And it will stimulate them to do as few crimes as possible. And the second. Transfer technical surveillance functions to certified maintenance stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u3	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, there are government members in charge of Prime Minister Stanislav Telisforovich. Please sign up for questions. Do you have a letter, Victor Vasilovich? Please let me write it down while I'm writing it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u4	A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. As foreseen in the 2006 State Budget for Ukraine, the State Road Development Programme has been implemented. I can answer that. By 2006, the State Budget project had already proposed funding for roads with a full percentage of roads, as provided for by the Law. And the funding is now set at 4 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure for the general budget of the Union. That's right. In addition, we plan to borrow foreign banking institutions next year, too, and so we hope to solve several major problems in the development of Ukraine's transport highways next year. The second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u5	I'm sorry, the oral question is now. Orzhachowski, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u6	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian company, Hersonian. The report, in the reference materials provided to us by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, provides impressive statistics on accidents and deaths. Unfortunately, I didn't see any data from the Ministry of Transport about road maintenance or anything like that. But I have some questions for you. What is the extent to which you are dealing with problems of maintaining and operating roads of a communal nature? Because public roads are often not repaired because of the lack of adequate funding of councils and are largely the cause of accidents and loss of life. And the second. What you do to avoid collisions on the railways of vehicles and pedestrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u7	I am very grateful for that question. Indeed, such a problem exists. It's almost 700 grand today. mile [km] of roads related to the authority of the Ministry of Transport and Communications refers to only 179 thousand. Kilograms. So what we're talking about is almost half a million kilometers of roads are now being arranged by the municipal authorities of executive power. So we have no relation to financing these roads, and we have no impact on their financing and maintenance. That is, the problem that exists today in the maintenance of local roads is being translated more into local authorities and the ministry can't influence it because it's a matter of local budgets. As far as railways are concerned, the problem is of great importance. We took an extraordinary step this year, we put security on the most dangerous railways, security at the expense of the military. We have seen that the most dangerous period of travel during the holiday season has just been radically reduced in the number of railway adventures. But that doesn't solve the issue, and the following year, in financial terms, we have foreseen a separate programme to modernize and equip transitions to modern technology, including with a fixation on photo equipment for violators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u8	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u9	A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. What programs are being developed to reduce the harmful effects of traffic on the environment and humans? You know, the Ministry of Transport has developed a road transport and road management plan, a major policy of state environmental policy, natural resource use, and environmental security. With a view to reducing the environmental impact of the road, we are already radically changing the standards for road construction, and we are equipping parking sites with trailers for the oil industry. This program is designed and will be widely implemented in the coming year. In order to reduce the impact of transport on health, roads are being built around populated areas and noisescreens are being set up. In fact, the first year that we started to approach this issue in some way in software, this issue was generally silenced because there were no budgets and there was no adequate funding. Taking into account the experience of other countries, the main way to reduce the negative impact of road transport on the environment is also the use of modern environmental road construction technologies and an effective mechanism for allowing transport vehicles to be used at technical level. You know that since January 1, 2005, the requirements for use in Ukraine of transport equipment that meet the Euro-2 standard will be fully implemented. In this way we hope that the movement of trucks that do not meet the new standards will be blocked. And we're just going to be able to get a positive dynamic after the environmental impact is reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u10	Please, Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u11	Gennady Samofalov, Party of Regions, faction of “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear rapporteur, I have heard you have very much in common, but you did not say today that the cost of road accidents is human life. During the past year, some 7,000 lives were lost. This year, it is estimated that there will be 7.5,000 lives. But given the reckless reform of the GAI and the fact that we lose 50 people at night, I think the figures will be much higher. I think it is time for the Government to develop a programme to prevent the loss of human life. You didn't say today how it's going to affect the economy, what losses today because we have cripples, disabled people after that, what direct losses we have, and so on. I haven't heard from you today exactly what the government thinks to avoid such enormous losses. If you could just tell me about the points, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u12	Thank you very much. Above all, the government first decided on the issue of financing the road economy for the following year. There's never been a decision on 100 percent of the financing of the road-farming complex. There'll be no funding -- we won't be able to do normal lighting, we won't be able to do normal markings, we won't be able to do anti-accidents on the roads. The other one. Once again, the government is developing a program when the DAI functions and the control functions are divorced. Third. We need, as I said in my report, just to create a normal system of responsibility when the technical inspection station conducts a technical examination of the machine, normally, civilized, without queues, without undue concern for citizens -- and will be personally responsible for how this machine led itself on the road. And what's more, I hope that this joint commission that we create with the DAI will be able to get to the point where, during the adventures in which a person is killed, there will be a thorough investigation into the involvement of criminals, with the participation of professionals who will just take this opportunity in a separate population of all circumstances, and there will be really conclusions as to the real reason for this adventure: either it's the technical reason for the vehicle, or it's the inattention of the citizens themselves, or it's the recklessness of the drivers and the inappropriate state of their preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u13	Please have a written question. Victor Vasilovich, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u14	The faction of the NDP and the political party "The Hard Ukraine". “What urgent measures is envisaged for the government to take to ensure road safety on the Kiev-Odessa route, taking into account the inefficiencies in road construction?” Well, I can say that we really hope that Kiev-Odessa will be fully completed by the end of November. First of all, as the final stage of this conclusion, the completion of the work will be the establishment of all road signs that are foreseen by the draft decision, road marking, the establishment of a metal barrier fence in full volumes, and above all in high bulk. The other one. Summary and planning will be carried out on the sidelines, the rash, and the planning of the sideboards, and the provision of normative visibility, especially in the lifts and downhills of the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u15	Please, Boris Andresyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Victor Vasilovich, I'm actually impressed that you've told so well in your report that who needs to be done, especially in the DAI, has been told what they need to do: and the elimination of dangerous places, and the registration, and so on. But, you know, I've listened to these terrible numbers right now, how many people have died, right? I'd like to tell you that throughout the war in Iraq, so far, the United States has lost about two thousand military personnel. In a year, you've seen numbers -- 7.5,000 people die. You told all the services today, but you didn't say the main thing, and what the Ministry of Transport is doing to improve the roads that are one of the most dangerous and important causes of human loss today. That's the first one. And the second. Please tell us, at least in this way, that people complain and write to us. How much, for example, did a mandatory road congregation come together in 2004, and how were these costs used, for example?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. I can answer this as follows: The Ministry of Transportation of Motor Traffic, which has been established and operated since June 1, this year, has conducted nearly 100,000 checks on carriers operating on road routes today. Of these 100,000 carriers, nearly 52,000 had some deficiencies and disruptions in transport regulations. And I can tell you that the activities of the head of the auto-inspector have already led to a reduction in road traffic accidents. The other one. We hope that, thanks to our fruitful cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we, and the head of the auto-control system, will simply radically reduce the number of unlicensed carriers working in an incomprehensible mode, the people with drivers working on buses and working nights. This is an abnormal situation and this is the main cause of events. If we look at how many emergencies and accidents occur on Ukraine’s roads, the vast majority take place on the roads of local utility, that is, in cities and district centers. What about roads? I told you today. 179 000 only refers to the competence of the Ministry of Transport and Communications — highways, international transport corridors. Everything else is local roads, utility roads. And we can't solve this today in a complex way. Because it's a question of budgeting. What about the road congregation? So you know, probably all those years ago, the 60-70 percent road assembly went into the general budget, the state budget, and it didn't go back to road services. And this year and next year alone, the issue will be solved comprehensively and 100 percent will be financed by the road congregation for road work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u18	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u19	Letters. Law enforcement committee. What specific government body or structural unit of the Cabinet of Ministers is responsible for the implementation of State policy to ensure the safety of the movement of technical equipment and pedestrians on Ukraine’s roads and roads, the streets of cities and other locations? I could say that's really a problem. At the legislative level, there is currently no single government body responsible for the implementation of state policy on the issues mentioned. But I already said today, two government bodies have been created. Everyone has a clear competence – this is the Main Auto Traffic Inspectorate of the Mintranslink and the DAI Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, each of which is responsible for regulating traffic and regulating traffic on Ukrainian highways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u21	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'm afraid I didn't hear what was supposed to happen from the Ministry of Transport throughout Ukraine. Why? Because we didn't hear anything about roadside inventory, we didn't hear anything about 50 percent of the traffic being the fault of the roads, that's the cover. We didn't hear anything about the stolen funds in Mintrans from your predecessors. Including everyone. We've heard nothing about the road, the road of Kiev-Odessa is the road of death, signed by your experts. It is there that everything is normal and put into service. I was here three years ago saying she wasn't betrayed, she wasn't ready. I'd like to hear Mintrans react to every traffic jam, once. The other one. What's being done to warn the thefts now, right now. You know, up to 50 percent of them steal when they build roads and repair roads. That's the data. We have to fight this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. In fact, I want to take a risk under what's been going on. All events prior to the work of the new government are being investigated, and appropriate steps are being taken by the competent law enforcement authorities, and the Ministry of Transport will no longer comment on these measures. According to the facts of each investigation, appropriate judicial proceedings will be conducted, and after court hearings, let the courts, the relevant services of the Attorney General's Office, report on the outcome of these cases. This is not a matter for the Mintranswealth to act as law enforcement agencies. That's the first one. The other one. For the first time in this year, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has developed a comprehensive five - year road management programme. We did a full inventory of the roads. We've given these data to the government and they're open. If there is a need, you can go through Ukrawtodor and we will provide complete information on the roads that are in our control. Third. With regard to the current cost of building the road, I can say competently that, on your request, we will provide you with complete information on the construction you need to finance the construction. I can tell you that every payment that goes towards building the road is now being scrutinized not only by Kravutodore but also by our Audit Authority and other law enforcement agencies. So today there's no such issue as it used to be, and I don't have the facts of the 50 percent theft of road construction funds. If there are such facts, I am willing to consider them and continue to work with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u23	Mainly, Victor Vasilovich, so that the next new Cabinet of Ministers does not carry out similar investigations. Yes, please, a written question. Do you have a letter, Victor Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u24	Letters. Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement: “What is being done in Ukraine to bring road agriculture to European standards? Quality of road cover, road and street equipment with proper lighting, traffic lights, markings, appropriate signs, emergency safety equipment, underground and ground-based pedestrian crossings, police stations, and so on. You know, today the use of new bio-emulsion technologies has been introduced to improve the quality of road coverage on Ukraine's roads of general use. The use of these technologies is already one of the most efficient energy-efficient ways to do construction and repair work, and it provides just high quality work and the creation of a new quality roads used in Ukraine. It also spreads into the practice of constructing and reconstructing roads for the use of treble-fat concrete, which can withstand today's load of transport without forming a track and hinder the development and destruction of cracks. An example of modern technology and materials is the use of roads such as Kiev - Borispol, Kiev - Odessa, and Kiev - Chop. I think you've seen what's going on. At the same time, we are doing work to change standards for the use of traffic lights, signs, and so forth. Today we have developed national standards that are now being passed on to the relevant certification bodies. And you have certainly seen that many new devices appear on the roads. But once again, I think that the biggest steps in replacing old equipment and the old approaches to marking roads, to lighting, to using modern technology will be seen for the next three years. It's only now that the government is starting to fund these jobs comprehensively and to finance the cost of introducing new technologies. And we hope that this will make the roads more intuitive, more informative, and they will be understood and open to any citizen of the country and foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u25	Please, Yuri Borisovich Kruk, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u26	Dear Viktor Vasilevich! I have two questions for you. Please tell me, who do you think should be involved in the training and retraining of drivers? Today these functions are in the GAI, and how effective you think they are. And the second question. Who is responsible for the registration of vehicles? We know that this function is also with the GAI, and the MEO is involved. Whether an MREO should lock on the GAI and possibly an MREO should be an independent organization in the MVA system. It's probably more of a question for Lucenko, but still, if you're the rapporteur, I'd like to hear these two questions from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u27	Thank you very much. In my view, it is certainly necessary to increase the requirements for training centers that train new drivers. Today this issue is regulated by the positions that the IMF, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science, has taken part in, but it is necessary to change this system, I agree with you. There is a need to strengthen the requirements for training centers. These centers have to be more competent, they have to equip the necessary sites to work out, really, the behavior of drivers in emergencies. And this will allow us to get better quality drivers, who will have not only a theoretical base, but also a practical basis for driving skills in extraordinary situations. That's the question. As far as the registration function is concerned. In my opinion, these are certainly functions that must be performed by the DAI MVS of Ukraine and their MREO. All I'm suggesting is a review of the subject of further technical examinations. The technical examinations carried out annually by car owners need to be submitted to the technical inspection station, private ones that simply have to be accredited by the same system of the IMF or other authorities that will be defined by the government, and these stations should continue to be personally responsible for how the vehicle behaves on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u28	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u29	Letters. Committee on Social Policy and Work: Is there a separate statistics of accidents caused by exclusively negative road conditions, no signs, no markings, no lights, no road coverings, etc.? If individual statistics are kept, what percentage of such accidents is the total number of accidents? The state survey of road accidents is now conducted by the State’s public road service. According to state-owned inspections, nearly three and a half thousand roads and streets of state and municipal property have occurred. This is almost five percent less than last year’s 35 percent of total traffic. [[But that doesn't make us very happy.]] Eighty - eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight And that's not much less than last year, and it's almost 31.5 percent of the total number of deaths and injuries. According to Ukrawtodor, 148 traffic accidents killed 19 people in eight months of this year. And last year, 31 people died. And this year, 173 people were traumatized, and this was reduced by almost 10 percent compared to last year. Thus, today objective statistics on the causes of accidents do not exist. In general, when reporting a traffic accident, the technology used is that the accident was caused by the driver’s fault, there, there, the pedestrian, and the poor condition of the road, or in connection with untimely repairs. How, though, can we determine the length of time? A month ago, if the repairs were done at the right time, wasn't it at the right time? Unfortunately, legislation is not regulated today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u30	Please, Leonid Vernogor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u31	Vernighor, a socialist faction. Dear reporter, we were all happy, transporters -- I worked in this system for a long time -- when we brought the transporters and the travelers together. We think we're finally going to have order in the technical safety of the movement. Now, you go from Kiev to Poltava today, and you'll see that there are thousands of roads, abandoned roads, out of which cars or tractors fly, and only when VIP personnel are going, then there are people guarding the entrance. That's the first question. And the second. My assistant, Minister of the Interior, Sirota, in the Kharkiv region and Poltavska, have studied the state of our legal security for drivers of the rights. How do you think you hire hundreds of thousands of people to work with their own rights? Why didn't you offer them? were not a driver’s right, but a national one. Well, it's not a certificate, it's a license to run state property, or it's a license to have the state at any time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. With regard to the first question, indeed, all the solutions that exist today need to be redesigned and reconstructed to some extent. And so this government program, which is defined for five years, which is the direction of the development of the road economy, it's clearly stated that we need to modernize all of the solutions that are particularly connected to the major highways, the road 1 category, and we know this problem, and I hope that within five years the most difficult of the crash points will be eliminated and the modernization of these areas will be carried out. As for the introduction of additional certificates, well, I don't think you need to do that. Licenses instead of rights. Today, let us speak objectively, for motorists, and there are licenses, and there are requirements for obtaining the right to carry passengers. As for the private users of cars, I do not think that artificial barriers should be created. I have always supported the logic that for a person there must be the most comfortable system that a state can create for its activities in everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u33	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u34	Letters. What work is being done and in what areas of Ukraine regarding the construction and repair of roads? Construction, reconstruction, and repair work are now being done in almost all parts of Ukraine. At the same time, the total number of construction and reconstruction facilities today is 112. Most of them are in the Dnipropetrovsk, Žitomirsk, Lvivsk, Lugansk, Cherkaske and Chernivite regions. The planning of these objects took place in the light of their completion in the following year, so we plan all the objects that we have started, and they must be completed the following year. We do not need to create long - term structures, nor do we need to create new objects that we will complete next five years. Only objects of improved capital repair on roads of general use today 457. These are crash bridges and roads, places of concentration of road traffic adventures, as well as those areas that have already lost their capacity and conditions of movement today are not enough. During the repair and construction work on roads of general use, more than 84,000 road signs have been installed and replaced, and 29,000 kilometres of road marking have been made and renewed. But this is not the amount that Ukraine needs. We understand that and we will correct that situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u35	Please, Alexander Slobodan. I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u36	Alexander Slobodan, Ukrainian National Party Dear Viktore Vasilovich, it is known that the road of Kiev – Yagotin – Warsaw is the shortest from the capital region to Western Europe. Why is this road in a chronically neglected state, and are you going to improve its state, resulting from the importance of its state importance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u37	Thank you. You know, we're solving the road-building and implementation of Kiev-Odessa in a complex way right now. At the same time, work is being done to upgrade and bring the Kiev-Chop road into line. And that road you're talking about, it's also very important. We started designing it, we started working on it. It's included in a program approved by the government, and it's going to be included in the next steps of the government, I can say that. This is a road that has a strategic meaning and will be built. I'm willing to give you more details after today's hearing on this road. Just so I don't say incompetent things, we have a fully developed plan for modernizing this road with all the financial and technical exhibits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u38	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u39	Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood What steps are being taken by the government to reduce the trauma and death resulting from car accidents? Well, for the time being, a state-wide road safety concept and measures to reduce road traffic fatalities by 50 percent by 2012. This concept and after-conciliation and approval measures should be the basis for reforming the State’s road safety management system. Also based on the experience of European countries and the European Conference of Ministers of Transport, the creation of a coordination commission to coordinate the work of road safety authorities is currently under consideration. Of course, we realize that a large number of deaths are also caused by the timely provision of medical assistance during the DDP. We know that the most important thing for a person's life is the first 30 to 40 minutes after the DDP, when, as a result of the timely provision of quality health care, a person can be cured and normally live on or in the absence of adequate assistance, he is simply doomed to traumatism, or even, for more serious consequences. The government thus supports the concept of disaster medicine. You know the MNC does that. And we will make every effort to have operational medical teams respond quickly to all accidents and travel to the scene of adventures and provide adequate medical care. In addition, it is really necessary to raise the level of education of the DAI staff, the work of our Head of Autoconspection, so that when they arrive at the scene, they have the necessary equipment, medicine, and so on. And most of all, we have had experience of what needs to be done during an accident, of what needs to be done with a person who needs to be done to help him survive and continue to have a normal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u40	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u41	Dear, my young minister, it seems to me that one of the best roads in Ukraine, I have the right to think that this is the path of your career as ministers. You know the classics about roads and fools. You know that the problems of fools in Ukraine don't exist at all levels, so there are road problems. Do you think the worst roads, and I'm willing to argue that is when you enter Europe, or from the European Union, Ukraine, Poland, from other roads. Foreigners, when entering, feel shocks and psychological and physical shocks in our paths. How do you feel about this? Is this done on purpose? Could Berezovsky ask him to help us with some money, so he can at least fly, at least 10 to 15 kilometers, when a man enters from abroad into Ukraine to feel that he does not go to Papua New Guinea?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u42	I thank you for that question. How can I react? I fully support you in creating normal, civilized roads. And I don’t think we should just go on the road 10, 15 km on our way to Ukraine. We have transport corridors, we have main roads that we just have to make right. That's why we took the government program, and that's why we have to build transport corridors. And today I repeat in a competent manner, the government for the first time predicted 100 percent of the funding for the next year for the road economy. I think we'll see how the roads change first thing next year. We need to change our attitude to the roads. We need not only to build new roads but also to maintain proper maintenance. The work of the road is more informative, and you are absolutely right when you say that they are unintelligible, unintelligible for foreigners. We know that, and we'll be dealing with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u43	This is when we enter Ukraine - you're right, I thought you'd say that when we enter the Kirovograd region in Ukraine, there are roads that you won't get through at all. Yes, please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u44	A letter. Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. What control is being exercised by the government for legislation and regulations already adopted on road safety? I told you before, according to the tasks assigned to it, the head of state is responsible for, among other things, the supervision of road transport operators. Today, they are developing standards and standards that regulate the organization of passenger and cargo transport. And with June 1st, nearly 52,000 violations of road transport legislation have already been detected, 368 carriers have been revoked, and 105 operators have been denied a license. At the same time, it consists of June 1, 18,000 protocols, which cost the state budget 1 million 648,000 dollars in fines for mismanagement in the market and for incompetent and unlicensed work in the car transport market. Thus, the structural unit of the Ministry of Transport and Communications on June 1, I think, proved its competence and effectiveness and it is extremely closely monitoring the implementation of road safety legislation. But it has been said that, unfortunately, there is also a state of society beyond the influence of the State. When citizens themselves are not very concerned about their lives, they do not care much about their responsibilities, do not know how to work with legislation, or do not want to learn to live in the legal field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u45	Please, Deaf.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u46	Thank you. Lew Glukhovsky, faction of the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Victor Vasilovich, in your report, when you analyzed the reasons for the impact of the various factors on traffic agreements, you gave little space to the technical state of the roads -- just one sentence. True, you had to answer the questions you were asked by the deputies of Orzhachovsky, Andresyuk, Yavorowski, who were harassing you, and quite rightly, about the technical state of the roads. I'd like to go back to that question, too. Our voter, who has a car, asks, "I pay a lot of money when I go through a technical examination of my car and I want to know where the money goes." Could you say, right now, the voters are listening to our broadcast, which is the total sum that the state collects by the state car assembly, by the assembly of roads. And do you think that this congregation is enough to keep the road in proper condition, or do you still need to look at some budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u47	I could say that, in general, there are about 600 million people in the budget from road congregations. But you realize that these costs are just not enough to finance road work, and the state is always taking extra money out of the state budget, and you can feel for yourself what 600 million is. And what 4 billion is. The bracelets are scheduled for next year. That is, today the state is nearly seven times the cost of maintaining the road economy from the amount it collects as a road congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u48	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u49	Letters. Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. What measures are being taken by the executive authorities to identify and increase the liability of non-licensed, so-called carriers who carry out passenger transport without any legal basis. At present, according to article 69 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, Head-Inspection establishes protocols and orders to apply to offenders of current legislation who carry out transport without a licence only if the offender is a subject of entrepreneurial activity. That is, we cannot make a protocol if it is not an entity of entrepreneurial activity. And in this case, responsibility for illegal transport is provided only by the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which provides for liability in the form of a fine or removal of a means, for obtaining illegal profits. Unlawful transfers also involve criminal responsibility under article 202 of the Criminal Code. And if the profit from illegal work exceeds a thousand untaxed minimums of citizens' income, then we can raise the question of criminal responsibility. And in view of what has been said, with the aim of putting an end to such illegal transports, the Head-inspection, together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Tax Administration, the Anti-Monopal Committee, are planning joint actions to detect these offences, raids are being carried out constantly, checks are being carried out. But there is also such a problem when a number of carriers mask their activities, illegally transported passengers to the so-called "procurement". They're just using vague legislation on this type of transport, and all the time, when such questions arise, they say: "We made the transfer for the order. They're not standard car routes, they're not standard transports." And with that in mind, the Head Inspectorate prepared amendments to the Ukrainian Roads Act. We hope that once the changes have been made, the issue will be fully settled and then we will be able to more influentially organize the activities of the motorists and control the drivers that provide these auto-supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u50	Please, Anatoly Kozlowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u51	Dear Victor Vasilovich! First, Mikolayevščina, Kozlowski, 133 constituency. Mikolajovina congratulates you on your assignment, wishes you success in the hope of the President and of the government, and our people are sure to do so. We all know that we don't have roads that meet European standards, we all know that training was the same thing as driving blind and curved and drug addicts are preparing and picking drivers for these buses where the carriers are. Nobody's looking at the drivers. And a lot of cool guys show up on roads where they don't need signs, they drive whatever they want. And that's why all of this brings us to what it is. As you can see, in order to increase the liability of drivers, I mean, increase the fines, withdraw the licence by 3, by six months, per year. Sending them to the retests to make him give up will improve our situation.?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. I think it's necessary to raise the responsibility for the commission of crimes. The responsibility that exists today virtually prevents it from having a proper influence on the mind of the car owners. But I would like to propose, in addition to increasing fines and introducing some other fiscal procedures, to introduce just normal economic levers, i.e. to introduce a practice where the DAI will keep a single register of all offences, keep a register of offenders, and during the year when such information is accumulated, it cooperates with insurance companies. Then, when the car owner arrives next year to carry out insurance for his car, he will simply receive a printed copy of the number of offences he committed, the severity of the offences. And the insurance company, depending on it, is going to create a system of some sort of blubber, and she's going to say, you're having a very dangerous problem for society. The other one. You're creating problems for yourself all the time on the road. So for you, the level of insurance payments should be, for example, 10, 15 times higher than for those citizens who did not have an accident in a year. And I think that this economic stimulus that is now working in countries in Europe, the United States, is more influential than when it's fined on the spot. And that's going to be an indignation against the state all the time. And in that case, when he comes and he's told that he has to pay his insurance payments a few times more, it's going to be his indignation to himself. He himself will realize that this year we need to reduce our statistics and make them more positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u53	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u54	The question came to an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u55	You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u56	No, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u57	Then please, Masenko. This is good, but there is a Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u58	Thank you. Victor Alexiovich, that's a question. As far as I can see, if ministers report, they're always in trouble with insufficient funding. And I'm interested in that kind of question. There's a budget forming. I've never seen a minister here ask a deputy to speak to the MPs, or write to the media that he was at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting defending the interests of his field -- he took and took the principle of a position that "I have little money allocated to the road sector." What's your position? How will you defend the interests of your field? Or is that what they're going to give -- you're going to make peace, and then you're going to be the "goat released" of the Supreme Council, and they're going to say that they're going to say that they're going to do this; are you going to take some kind of principled position: if you're deprived, you're going to leave the post of minister then?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. In fact, each minister, when reviewing the draft budget at a government meeting, is in the position of his ministry in a normal, proper manner during his previous formation. And you know it. Likewise, I defended the position of our ministry. But I think as a member of the government that when a collective decision is made, when the government has already approved a balanced, normal budget that is necessary, which takes into account the opinions of all sectors that take into account the opinions of all actors in social relations. I can't, after the government's decision to express a single opinion. I'm going to insist on this position, I'm going to support that collegiately accepted budget, which is balanced, which takes into account the views of all the members of the government or somewhere, but it's accepted collectively, it has to be considered in the Supreme Council in the form that the government has put forward. And it is already the matter of the national deputies to make their amendments and their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u60	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich, for having largely answered your questions in a concise manner and for giving them the opportunity to ask more questions. Have a seat, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich, you may not have heard that the Prime Minister has expressly forbidden ministers from lobbying their interests through the MPs for what you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u61	That's our fate with you. Yes, I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Minister of Internal Affairs, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. Please, Yuri Vitaliyovich, 20 minutes of the report and 45 minutes of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, present! In order to address road safety issues in an integrated manner, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has taken measures in the previous years 2003-2005, including approved programmes: State Safety Programme, Road Traffic, Streets of Cities, 2003-2007; State Road Development Programme, 2005-2010. What we've just talked about is that, without more money than planned programs, we haven't been implemented. As a result, as well as a number of factors on which we will stop later, the situation on Ukraine’s roads is becoming more difficult. This is evidenced by the state’s crash rate over the past five years. The number of accidents during this period increased by 37 percent. This trend is still being maintained. During the 9 months of this year, there were 34,000 road accidents, plus 5 percent, which killed almost 5,000 people plus 6.5 percent and injured more than 41,000 people plus 7 percent. The reasons for this situation are as follows: First. Over the years of independence, the number of vehicles has increased by almost 2 million, which is plus 40 percent. The other one. There is no proper attention given to the development of the road network. It doesn't fit the transport flows according to its characteristics. The chart shows the state of emergency on Ukraine’s highways. And we can see that in many areas, the journey is in critical condition. In Ukraine, 26,000 miles [26,000 km] of highways are damaged. There are either more than 67,000 items of road signs that are not in satisfactory condition. A large part of the technical means of regulating road traffic is not working. Some 37,000 miles [37,000 km] of road marking is needed, repairing more than a thousand miles [1,000 km] of transport fence. Worse still in the streets of the populated areas: the pits, the lack of outdoor lighting, the lids of observation wells, and so forth. At the same time, out of the 53,000 prescriptions sent by police officers to traffic managers, 1 out of 6 remained unresponsive. Third. Low road users ’ culture and liberalisation of existing legislation After increased responsibility for the violation of traffic rules and the improvement of the functions of road traffic personnel in 1995 there was a decrease in both the number of traffic accidents and the severity of their consequences in Ukraine for 5 years. Every year, the number of people killed in the accident was reduced by an average of a third, that is, the lives of almost 13,000 of our citizens were saved. However, with changes in 2001, the mechanism for drawing violators to administrative responsibility almost completely lost its real importance. From this point on, Ukraine has seen a steady trend in disaster relief, especially among those who have died. During this period, they increased by 2,000 people, who were injured by 17,000 people a year. Unfortunately, the existing system of implementation in administrative matters in the field of road safety does not guarantee the principle of irreparability of punishment. Overcrowding in the courts causes one in three traffic violations, in fact, to avoid punishment. In 2004 alone, only 15 percent, 35,000, and 35,000, of the 230,000 materials sent to the drunken transport court. And 17,000 drivers in general escaped any responsibility. The rest took place with minor fines. At present, there are also virtually no mechanisms for the implementation of the rights and obligations of public authorities to prohibit the use of vehicles in a state of emergency. As a result, police officers have been deprived of the possibility of warning such incidents by removing state registrations and sending them to a fine box. This is especially the case when passengers are transported. The owners of the vehicle, its technical readiness is largely ignored. Fourth factor. Passenger traffic problems have a negative impact on road safety. Of the 200,000 buses and vans tested by the police, 1 in 6 was used with technical failures. There has been a violation of existing legislation in the area of passenger transport security. According to the evidence, nearly 60,000 administrative protocols have been compiled and 6.5 thousand prescriptions have been issued to remedy shortcomings. Some 1,200 applications have been sent to the local authorities for the removal of the licence for the carriage of passengers. However, only 242 motorists, who make up a small percentage, were punished. The legal basis for the organization of road transport is designed without taking due account of road safety requirements. Only article 21 of the Ukrainian Automobile Law requires the carrier to take steps to ensure road safety. Other normative documents do not limit licensing authorities. or permission to do so. The fifth factor. There were and regret, and there are still shortcomings in the police's work to ensure road safety. This, first of all, is not in line with the organizational structure of the special divisions of today’s requirements, an outdated dominant of the subjective human factor in the exercise of road traffic control. Simply put, the habit of embezzlement is outdated. Taking into account what has been said and with a view to regulating nonroads, measures are being taken to create a modern specialized road safety service. The main objective is to exclude a subjective human factor while ensuring that road traffic is controlled and that transport discipline is respected by its participants. The maximum implementation of technical means is a strategic goal of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in this direction. Moving from a system of complete control of people to targeted regulation at places of complexity and targeted control in hazardous areas. Approaching the traffic safety management system in line with European standards, especially in the area of automated databases. This will allow safe and comfortable conditions for road users. We have drafted a bill aimed at increasing the impact on the discipline of road users with a clear definition of legal sanctions for committed offences and ensuring the proper level of implementation of administrative decisions in the area of road safety. Literally tomorrow he will be reviewed at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and I hope that he will be brought up immediately for consideration by the honourable National Deputies. The key points set out in this bill are: First. We strongly suggest that we reduce the number of road safety violations for which a person is called to account. Only those violations that directly affect accidents remain, and their drinking weight from the previous law is about 30 percent. Small offenses that are not dangerous, 70 percent, are commuted as punishments. As it rises, some fines rise. This, of course, does not conflict with European practice. You can look at the diagram of what levels of fines are foreseen in any European country and in Russia. However, I would like to stress: the increase in fines offered by the Ministry of Internal Affairs is less than the fine that the Supreme Council has foreseen for smoking in public places. So it seems to me that complaints about the extreme antinationality and rigidity of this law are premeditated. In Germany, for example, a speeding fine of up to a third of the average monthly wage is 800 euros. In Poland, Hungary's non-collective management fine is significantly higher than the average wage, respectively, between 1,400 and 800 euros. In Ukraine, the fine for most of the gross violations, including particularly dangerous ones, such as drunken, red light, the bar, now stands at 1.4 to 2.7 euros, if counted against the European currency. The new bill proposes to increase the fines for dangerous violations to €85-170. The maximum fine for remanaged drinking will be $867. The other one. It is possible for workers created by the State Road Safety Service of Ukraine and the U.S. Navy Patrol Service to retain a driver's license until the issue is resolved by the court. This clearly identifies the cases in which this is done, namely, if you are drunk while driving, when you are doing an accident, without stopping at the request of a police officer. In the future, the court itself will decide on the type of driver’s authorization: either the removal of driving rights, or the imposition of a certain type of fine. Third. Employees of newly created services are given the right to make a direct order in the form of a protocol for infringements of traffic regulations to bring administrative responsibility which, in the event of a disagreement, could be brought before a driver in a court of law. At the same time, I want to point out that the police won't get the money at the crime scene, it's strictly forbidden, but they're just ordering a fine, simply saying a ticket to be paid to any branch of the bank that's paid through any banking institution. Four. In order to limit the impact of the human factor, the maximum involvement of automatic fixation of infringements, photographs, and telegraphers is envisaged. For practical implementation of this proposal, it is proposed that a mechanism be put in place to direct the entire amount of fines or at least half of them to local budgets to purchase technical means of control and regulation of road traffic. Such practices existed in the mid-1990s, and local authorities had real mechanisms for improving road accidents: buying new signs, technical devices, lightbulbs, etc. Fifth. In order to ensure the unconditional execution of the charges imposed and to prevent criminal offences in the area of traffic traffic, it is envisaged that the only state registers of persons admitted to the control of transport equipment, registered means of transport and the periodical processing of transport equipment and the state-wide system for the calculation of road traffic violations by its participants will be established. Six. Expanding the scope of insurance services to compensate for the damage caused by road traffic accidents, improving public awareness of these issues with the involvement of insurance organizations. In addition, the creation of the sole insurers of the organization of the DTP database and the involvement of their representatives in the formation of the DTR, as required by the law adopted by the Supreme Council. I'll notice that abroad, for example, a person who wants to intimidate a car and who finds an insurance company in databases that he regularly boils down DPT usually pays a lot more insurance than a disciplined road traffic particle. Some of these measures may seem unpopular. But I would like to point out that they all refer to road traffic violators, so legislation is for the benefit of those law-abiding citizens who have a constitutional right to travel freely and safely in our ways. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u63	Yeah, thanks for cutting the time limit. Please sign up for the questions. So far, it's written.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u64	Written question: Traffic statistics and traffic safety? On October 1, 2005, 33 thousand were registered on highways and streets. 986 road accidents with victims. This is a five - percent increase compared to the same period in 2004. Nearly five thousand people were killed. That's an increase of 6.6 percent. However, about 42 thousand were injured. People, that's a 7 percent increase. At the same time, existing rules for the calculation of traffic accidents provide for the maintenance of state-wide paper accounting only if there are injured persons. On June 30, 2005, the Ministry of State, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, adopted Decree No. 538 on the Approval of the Procedure for the Calculation of Accidents, which approved a new order of state-wide coverage, including those in which persons and road users were not injured, were only subject to material damage. The new arrangement for the calculation of DTPs involves the introduction of a state-wide automated system for their calculation with the further development of a single state-owned DTP computer base related to other relevant MAF bases — cars, drivers, maintenance, and so on. This, in turn, will allow you to obtain complete and objective information about the causes of the accident, to analyze them, and to take steps to eliminate and warn possible causes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u65	Yes, please, Orzhachowski, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u66	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, according to you, Ukraine is in Europe or not the most dangerous country in terms of emergency. I've got a lot of questions for you, and part of the effectiveness of your prescriptions, the protocols you're giving to the council, and then they're not going on like that, and your relationship with the councils, and those. First. Please tell me if you have analyzed why Hersonian has found herself in the midst of the vices of the right and the right ones. And the second. The history of Leonidas Kuchma is remembered by eyewitnesses of economic ruin. Your office, representing the authority of Mr. Yashchenk, may testify to the period of his reign by new symbols, such as the desolate buildings of the former DAI on the roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. First. As for the prescriptions, I want to repeat that out of the 53,000 prescriptions sent by police officers to traffic managers, every 6 left without a response at all. After all else, minor fines. In addition, the submission to the local authorities of disqualification of licenses for passengers who violate the technical condition of their cars, I can say that almost 60,000 administrative protocols have been drawn up, 6.5,000 prescribed, but only 242 car carriers responded. It's simple. I would say that this is a testimony of the local authorities' connection to the owners of these transports, which are actually a danger to the lives of passengers. On the other hand, answering your question. If I got it right, it was about including the car registration system, I could say that the police are something to be proud of in that direction. During the current year, respected national deputies have received an additional 400 million dollars because of their order and control over the registration of cars. I would like to underline, in addition to the base that it had last year. That means that all the wage increases that you national MPs have set aside to raise the pay of the DAI, we've covered almost twice. That's the only way. So any talk about transferring the MREO system to another department is unconstructive today. It's so soft. So despite my and your criticism of the actions of the DAI employees in this direction, they worked extremely effectively. Now the final question is about the DAI control stations that are now on the road. I'll tell you what. I've been rethinking this situation lately, and I think that some of the key points at the station will be re-occupied by employees of the newly created road police, who will be used solely for hijacking or hijacking operations, etc. But they won't be used for mass stop, speed, etc. These are capture operations, hijacking. No more, but no less. So all of these key points will be restored, and those that are not needed are likely to be transferred either to rent or sold to interested organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u68	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u69	How does the State ensure that administrative penalties are enforced, including administrative fines for alleged traffic violations. If you answer this question briefly, let's say there are virtually no answers, but to put it more precisely, I'm going to read the written information. The existing system of administrative proceedings for road safety violations does not ensure that the principle of irreparability of punishment is implemented. In establishing a protocol for a criminal, a police officer due to the absence of the country's only automated registers of citizens who are registered at the place of residence, persons who have been entitled to the management of transport means of confidence and registered means of transport cannot establish the residence of road users. This applies to both pedestrians and drivers, not to foreigners. As a result of the overcrowding of the courts of general jurisdiction, each other is effectively avoiding punishment. According to a 2004 review, more than 3 million administrative cases came to the DAI courts, but only 60% of them had a decision, and the court's decisions did not exceed 36% of that part. With a view to establishing a system for monitoring the execution of imposed charges, such as the determination of the payment of the fine imposed on the institutions of the bank, it is possible to establish a state-wide automated system for calculating payments to the institutions of both state and commercial banks. Monitoring the system of payment of fines and an effective legislative mechanism of influence on offenders in the event of a non-timely payment of a fine in combination with national registrations of citizens of transport vehicles and legislative arrangements of state authorities and citizens will allow the State to establish an effective automated system of control over the execution of charges, including the payment of fines by offenders. This will increase the discipline of road users, improve road safety, and increase the revenue from payment of fines to the State Budget. Also today, there is virtually no mechanism for the exercise of the rights and obligations of public authorities to enforce the ban on the use of means of transport in cases directly provided for by legislation, to manage in an unsettled state, without documents, without technical inspection, to drive a stolen car, and to ensure that in such cases it is removed from the control of drunk drivers. This situation leads to a massive disregard for traffic rules both by drivers and by pedestrians and, as a result, to an increase in the number of human casualties on the road. If you can add in your own words, honourable national MPs, we must admit, after the changes to the legislation that the police have deprived the city of the opportunity to impose a fine, not to get the money, but to write a fine, the police have become a scarecrow and on roads that have frightened citizens and had the only effective method of punishment – 20 minutes to fill in a protocol to commit a violation. The answer was clear: Militia workers were bribed with bribes. Unfortunately, this system is rooted in the ranks of the police, and especially in the lavas of road users. This system, unfortunately, has a very deep history of mental roots. So at this point, you can only strike in two directions: the first, the maximum automatization of control, the second, the imposition of a fine on the spot with payment only in commercial banks, is prohibited on the spot, and payment control through the created database during the technical inspection. There is no alternative at this point in the state to discipline road users, from our point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u70	Please, Boris Andresyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u71	Thank you. Respectable. Boris Andresyuk, National Party, National Security and Defence Committee. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, you've told us quite carefully about how the violations are being fixed, about the punishments, they're quite appropriate, because, in fact, 37% of the traffic in Ukraine has increased. It's extremely serious. But, nevertheless, you didn't stop, even by word of mouth, in your report, you didn't say: what, though, are you planning to do, implement from a number of educational activities, some measures to raise the general culture of road users, the publication of manuals, textbooks, children's literature, television, radio? It seems to me that even though we haven't raised the penalty rate any longer, they won't add to the effect that cultural and educational measures are still taking on road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u72	Thank you for asking, it's absolutely appropriate. The situation with a culture of movement cannot, of course, be limited to purely punitive functions. First of all, I took note of the need to improve road conditions, the need to discipline road traffic, but of course it's about raising a culture of road traffic. To a large extent, the under-performance of schoolchildren in road traffic rules has been influenced by the lack of education by means of visual agitation, posters, and so forth. And we're really planning right after we buy the technical controls that are the priority areas for using the DAI's incomes to deal with this particular problem. Moreover, every DAI unit has one inspector who has functional duties in schools and with the public. We're going to pay attention to that, we're going to release new textbooks, and so on. But agree that this system must be of two parts: both culture and, in case of noncompliance, punishment. So at this point in time, in connection with the small costs that we have to maneuver, we are moving towards increasing automation, purchasing technical equipment. From time to time, we will certainly, perhaps at the same time in some places, move on to social television. But I would very much like this to be complicated along with the adoption of a new law that will be put into consideration by the Supreme Council. You can just start living on the road from a new border. The new unit, the new police, the new form, the new technology, maybe new advertising, new calls for culture, it should work in the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u73	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u74	Is the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Elimination of the State Automobile Inspection of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the psychology of road users? That was the question. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President of Ukraine, in his decree alone, is only recognized as necessary to eliminate the State Automobile Inspection as an integral part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. However, the decision can only be made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as you understand. Based on what has been said, the state car inspection of the Ministry of Internal Affairs has not been legally eliminated. You can read the President's Decree, which reads "reorganize" in paragraph 2. It's still written down in what order. In what way DAI employees continue to carry out their duties. Regarding the impact on the psychology of road users. The adoption of the decree certainly affected him. With the admission of road users to the decree, especially under the influence of the media, what appears to be a complete removal of control to some extent has led to a deterioration in road discipline, and as a result of some increase in the number of accidents involving victims. In the first decade of August, the crash rate increased in comparison with the same period last year, plus 34 percent, with fatalities and injuries. In view of this development, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, including through work and the media, has taken steps to remedy the situation. Among other things, just in answer to a question, Mr. Andreszuk said that 37 percent of the increase in traffic traffic is about statistics in five years. This year, traffic only increased by 5 percent by 9 months of the current year. This means that the measures taken by the IMF are in full compliance with the instructions of both the President and the government leadership have given effect. On September 1st, the growth rate of traffic slowed down considerably, and we expect that by the end of the year we will have even reduced the rate compared to 2004. In September, the emergency situation and its consequences became the most stable to reduce. Yes, in September of the month, the number of accidents in comparison to the same period last year decreased by 4 percent, by 1.1 injuries by 0.4. This is a steady trend towards normalizing the situation. I would, of course, like to say my point of view in this regard. I'm sure there weren't more traffic violations on the streets after the decree. It was just those who always did it cynically, outspokenly, and insolently. But their initial involvement in responsibility, even with the extremely limited powers we have because of the imperfections of legislation, has given effect and, I'm sure, after a year, we will not allow any catastrophic consequences on roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u75	Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u76	Sergey Žizko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, it has become clear from the ministerial reports that the state of the roads and, also, the state of legal and driving literacy in our society is causing the greatest emergency. And the police, who are going to war with these factors, are responsible in public for, as if, the state of emergency is that. Even though it is a major factor in protecting the lives and health of citizens, it is a key factor. What you think needs to be done by the legislator today, first of all, and by the Ministry of Transport in order to reduce the pressure on the police and the Ministry of Health, such as government factors that are actually working with the consequences, not the cause of the accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u77	Thank you. What I'm saying is that after the next reorganization of the road service, the main criterion for the position of employees of the future road militia will be the increase, or decrease, of the traffic in the area for which they are responsible. I think that's the approach that the Ministry of Transport should have in terms of the state of emergency on certain sections of the road. So in answer to your questions, it would seem very simple to do, but very difficult things: to do normal roads and the proper services to take responsibility for the state of emergency on such roads, until he is relieved of his position, if he is not able to repair the roads properly and keep them in proper condition and hang the appropriate road signs. The other one. I would ask you, when you adopt the budget, to provide, at least, 50 percent of the fines for violating traffic regulations to be passed on to local budgets, which means that they will have mechanisms to improve the situation on the road, including the purchase of traffic lights, traffic signs, markings, maybe the help of a police with technical means. That's what was in the mid-1990s and justified itself. And third, to ensure that the law provides for the irreparability of punishment on the spot of the offender. I mean, it's a very simple thing, if you go to the red light, you get stopped and you get a ticket and you get a record of what you're doing. If a person agrees with what he has committed, he goes and pays to the bank, if he disagrees, he goes and pays, but he can sue in court, if the court confesses, he gets his fine back. There is no alternative anywhere in the world, either in Russia or in Europe or in America. It must be in Ukraine, too, if we care about not all motorists, especially violators, but those who eat honestly and disciplinedly, but who are at risk. I'm sorry, it was a purely Ukrainian accident when Bus was driving on the opposite lane and was in an accident in the back. This is unacceptable in any country, but it's become a practice in Ukraine. Because he knows that a policeman can't punish him on the spot, he can only write a protocol and he may not go to court, the court can make a decision, but he won't necessarily pull it off. You have already heard that only 60 percent of the protocols are dealt with by courts and only 30 percent pay fines under these protocols. This means that people have no incentive to discipline on the road. So I'm going to ask you, personally, to represent this law in the Supreme Council and ask it, as soon as possible, to be carried out with the police getting real powers without taking the money into their hands, nevertheless, to bring the perpetrators to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u78	Yuri Vitaliyovich, don't give instructions on how to drive. Please give me a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u79	So let's maybe ask questions from the hall, because I see that people are worried that I've been answering for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u80	There won't be any writing room. Is there no objection to the postponement of writing? Okay. Oh, no? Okay. Then, please, on the list. Yuri Crook, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u81	Dear Yuri Vitalevich, I have already asked some questions to the Minister of Transport, but given that this is your parish, as they say, will you still say whether you will decide, in the light of the restructuring of the GAI, whether it will be in the MREO system, but it must be an independent structure, whether it will be a question or not. You know what it's for. And the second question. It's a question of why don't you just pass on the whole mining system, anyway, training the drivers, retraining them, and so on. If there are any problems, I think they should be the property of the Supreme Council. And question three. You know, there is a State road safety programme for 2003-2007. And it was in this programme that we were supposed to have the Supreme Council get a few bills, you know, as a former member of our committee, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u82	I'll answer Yuri Borisovich. The first is the MREO system, a fairly self-sustaining system, as you know, is the head of each unit, and there's a district manager who actually shuts down the entire system. I'm definitely against it being passed on to any department not only because it's a budgeting system for the IMF, but also because I just said a simple figure, plus 400 million to the base last year means enough serious order and discipline there. On the other hand, without a registration system, it is simply impossible to work as a road police or as a former GAI. So whoever wants to get this golden egg probably thinks about finance, but doesn't think about the responsibility for using this system. The education system, Yuri Borisovich, today, teaching traffic rules may be any business or business organization, but the police have to check the knowledge they're doing, frankly, I don't really like the complexity of this test, but considering it's obviously not today's task, but it might suffer by tomorrow, after imposing basic technical control over the state of road discipline, I would have put that question down for tomorrow. In fact, a bill would have to be put in place to ensure that any teaching organisations conducting such courses were accredited by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This would allow you to raise your level of learning. But once again, we've put all the legislation aside today -- and we've prepared the only basic law that, by interfering with many other laws, 20 with the extra laws, will allow the normalization of the situation on our roads, allow both authorizations, and responsibility for the militia, and authorization, and responsibility for the road users. So I really hope that you and I will be able to adopt this law in the fall as a whole in order to enter the new year with new European norms. And the last question is about the laws. I said it's a top priority law. Please consider him if he has the will to do so as an urgent matter. I hope that the deputies, including ours, will also support and quickly draw the necessary conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u83	Mikola Sadowa.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u84	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to give it to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u85	Ice cream microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u86	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, you know, there are a lot of letters coming right now on account of delays in the investigation of the crash, especially when the owner of the expensive car is to blame. Is anything being done to speed up the investigation? First. The second question. I was told that 50 dollars were to be paid in Kiev for getting a driver’s license. I certainly don't believe this, because there should probably be more, even, this kind of practice. But nevertheless, can we still put control in this respect? And the last. In the hundredth district, remember, in Kirovograd, there is a delay in investigating violations of electoral law, and roads are still bad, and people are afraid to go there. Is there anything you can clarify about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u87	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. We have, as always, a conceptual match of vision. Because DPT's expertise is actually the hardest and most corrupt place, because I felt it at the reception of citizens, when 200 people come, 50 of them talk about the injustice of the investigation of DTP, and Deputy Lechchenko tells me that every time, of course, it's a painful point. That's why we've increased it by 2,000 people who are working to investigate accidents. Why? The moment I came to work, in February and March, I was investigating April 2004. Such a colossal flood, of course, does not provide the ability to make export conclusions entirely qualified. So we expanded this unit, they're warned of personal criminal responsibility for finding out, and if someone is dissatisfied with the export statement, he can file it to the prosecutor's office, if it's found that the expert was wrong, he's going to jail. It's pretty obvious. In this case, all I had to do was increase the number of people, clean up the floods, and allow the speedy investigation of the crash is done. To the extent that they objectively do so, you can understand that the expert is criminally responsible for his conclusion, legal culture requires those who question the expert conclusion to press charges. This is the only method I can offer. Regarding the costs when receiving a certificate. If you mean official prices, they're much less normal. Although soon, I think, literally, that since November 1st, we are not required as an alternative, but we will invite people to receive a European model at the expense of their identification. I mean, he can take old certificates more cheap, if I'm not mistaken, 12 bucks, and more expensive, which will reach about 50, maybe 70 bucks. I'm not ready to say at the rates right now, but this is going to be, the person will choose the kind of ID he wants. However, in terms of bribes, the direction here is clear. We're going to do when we're a little rich, everything to get the exams fixed on video. The person came in, passed the exam, if he received it, and the computer will be able to get a certificate if it did not pass, it will only take two weeks, and there is no other way to get it at the handover. If we're preparing such an automated system right now, first of all, it's going to be implemented in Kiev. But unfortunately, by diverting funds to buy new automated radars on a photo device to fix speeds and so on. This program is now somewhat slowed down because it's extremely important to stop the carnage on the road. But nevertheless, the transparency of the exam conditions will allow you to resolve the question that you are talking about, Alexander Alexandrovich. About Kirovograd. Of course, the situation is not entirely relevant to today’s issue, but I am concerned about it as a minister of the interior. In fact, in Kirovgrad a criminal case was committed against counterfeiting organizers in the 100th district. They were detained, but the court did everything by having previously celebrated their birthday with suspects to be released. And that's what's causing a huge upheaval among the public, and there's a rally, and there's a roadblock, and there's a roadblock, and so on. In this case, therefore, the issue was the adequacy of the position of prosecutor in the district. As far as I know, the Attorney General has replaced his employee there and I hope it makes life and militia easier, and all the law enforcement agencies, and, above all, the next elections to be held in an honest environment. It may also be appropriate to point out that a criminal case of financial abuse has been violated for a sufficiently large amount by the head of the court itself at the time of purchase of the court’s premises. There was, let's say, a very serious financial machination. Perhaps this explains the cooperation between forgers and the rather strange decisions of the inhabitants of Kirovograd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u88	Vladimir Stupak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u89	Vladimir Stupak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Minister, we know the quality of the roads, it does not please us. And in Ukraine, there are, especially on the roads of regional importance, constant repairs, lattices, and huge thefts. So what measures does the ministry take to those organizations that are responsible for the quality of roads? That's the first question. Question two. What fate in all the accidents in Ukraine and especially where people die is greater than the speed of drivers? And one more question. When is it going to end with tough numbers for MPs, government officials? So it turns out that up to now, we have the same level of equations that are better than the others. So when are these cool numbers going to be eliminated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. Now I'm going to try to find information. Unfortunately, I cannot quickly find information about the distribution. And these are the reasons for the accident. The speed exceeds 13 percent, the maneuvering rules break – 20 percent, the biggest; the distraction from management, 26 percent inadvertent, 10 percent in cross-sectional traffic, and 10 percent in cross-sectional traffic. These are the most important reasons to be fixed. Let me put it this way about the numbers. Virtually all over the world, there are usually blue police numbers or, respectively, police numbers. I insist that they be preserved, because, among other things, it makes it possible for both walkers and driveers to see who to turn to at this point. With the introduction of a patrol system, it is responsible for the commission of offences both on the pedestrian side and on the road. Another thing that's important to me, too. I see where the police are at one time or another, including if they're standing by restaurants at work hours where they're at night, where they're supposed to be standing and where they're standing. By the end of the year, we'll have electronic devices that will allow us on the map of the queue at all the major locations where we can see both the foot and the car. So this is going to be a reinforcement of a single militia deployment system that will allow maneuvering. I can say, for example, that I personally checked all the southern and eastern Ukrainian district centers with the newly created patrol services that merged with the DPS and PPS, that is, the foot and car militia. So here's the approach to the scene of the 3-4 minutes event. In the district centers of eastern and central Ukraine. I think that's a very positive result. He'll definitely go back to the state of the offence, but on the other hand, I'm distracted, but once again, the service blue numbers for the police are very helpful in the work and the police, and I think the citizens of our Ukraine. On the other hand, we have eliminated any privileges for all other license plates. The President's decree prohibits any shirt from anyone but the militia, the doctors and the transport of explosive goods, etc. To date, we have removed enough numbers "II", "MI", the 28th region of Ukraine, which were ordered by the previous minister. We've been trying to remove the numbers of the deputies of the previous and today's call to the Supreme Council. The numbers of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers were completely deleted. Nevertheless, we are faced with the legislative rule that this is private property of a citizen. And he might give up this number, you offered to give it to him voluntarily for someone else, unfortunately, first of all the people's deputies, especially the previous ones, don't want to go into cooperation and understanding on this issue. That's why we don't have the right, that's a violation of private property. And Deputy Carmazin has already asked me about the violation of the Constitution by the police. But, canceling it, the state standard annulled the signs "WR", "II" and others. However, the owners think it's their private property, especially the MPs, that it was very annoying -- an attempt by the police to take them away. So we decided very simply. We gave written instructions to all DAI employees not to pay attention to what is written on the license plate. All participants in the movement are equal. And by the way, I think that every witness that's running this number today. No "I," no "I," no "I" today have any "I" privileges on the roads, I think, that's obvious. In addition, there are about 130 state signs with tridents and a license plate for statesmen. These include the leadership of the State and the Supreme Council, ministers and heads of district councils and heads of district administrations, without substitutes, well, it is clear that the leaders of the judicial system. This question is questionable. For example, the president believes that they should be abolished. I would think that, in terms of control, public control over the activities of the elected people of power, these numbers need to be preserved -- to see where the servants of the people are at any moment. And once again, they don't have any privileges on the roads. No one is covering the streets for anyone but the President, the Prime Minister and the Chief of the Supreme Council. But people would have to see why a license plate car, let's say 65, stands in one place or another, what it does on the weekends that it transports during working hours. I think it's the transparency of power and that's all. I join you in thinking that the quality of the roads, softly speaking, requires a better quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u91	Bondar has been talking about the quality of the roads for an hour. Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u92	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region, faction “Go, Ukraine!” The Bloc of Volodymira Litvina. Dear Mr. Minister! You know that on Friday that week, we discussed the issue of combating corruption, information, and so on. I think we all understand, and you said in your speech that you're very much approached by citizens, but that's the main thing, I think, of that. The fact that sitting in the office, despite the great flow of complaints, will not solve this problem. So is it planned by the Ministry, perhaps in conjunction with the prosecutor's office, the judicial branch of authority, as planned by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, to hold, say, a government meeting in Zaporez? This way to go to a place in some area and do it there, analyze to make the citizens come, really, there, and then you'll see. First. We'll never solve this problem, because in my speech on Fridays, let's say I've only got two RVs in Tokmak, where the tough guy strangled two men and two men.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. I can tell you far scarier stories. And when 12 people die at once just because the drunk driver is behind the wheel, and when, if, excuse me, a passenger bus rides into the opposite lane, and passengers yell at everyone else, realizing that the driver is leading them to a deadly danger, release the lane because we are in a hurry. This is the total depravity of all road users. But that's not what this is about. It's about going out. I report that I have followed your instructions and there will be a visiting board of the Ministry of Internal Affairs this Friday, which is in Zaporozhye. So the question is solved. But as for the meeting, believe me, we're not sitting in the office. The Ministry of Internal Affairs this year received a million 700 citizens’ appeals, and they are all reviewed and answered. I personally had over 500 citizens at my reception. I'm sure I've got a nice day ahead of me today, where a man of 200 is already under public reception. I specifically introduced a ministerial institution in the areas where they were primarily involved in the reception of citizens in the district centers, traveled and checked how citizens’ appeals were registered, and how their appeals were tested. All of this is a colossal job that needs to be diverted by serious forces, but it has its effect. I'd be happy for everyone to be able to make an appeal, but so far, I think about 27-30 percent of this is going to work out positively as well as the applicant is concerned. So maybe it's not as effective as I'd like to be, but, nevertheless, it's a colossal job that I've been doing and I'm going to do, and it's where people feel the flaws of the ministry, where there's an unsatisfying state, where there's an achievement. So taking citizens is my number one priority on the first day of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u94	Igor Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u95	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Minister, you said today that a famous decree on the liquidation of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, its implementation has led to an increase in mortality and traffic accidents in some way. Would you please tell the President yourself about the consequences of his decree? That's the first question. The other one. We love or don't like the employees of the State Auto Inspectorate, but, nevertheless, 10,000. workers will be released according to media reports. What is the social protection of these people? That's 10,000. Family. And the next. Tell me about the state-owned enterprises of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the resources are a subsidiary of the Fear Alliance, whose branches are located at the DAI district, and in fact they are engaged in clean lobbying in the provision of insurance services to the owners of transport vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u96	Thank you. That's my answer. If any presidential decree could lead to an improvement or a deterioration in road accidents, I guarantee that tomorrow there will be a decree prohibiting traffic violations. If someone thinks that such a decree can have immediate positive or negative consequences, I do not support it. The President's decree highlighted the problem of the inefficiencies, inefficiencies and bribery of the DAI, which occurred in the previous period. Let's call things our names. In fact, there were people in the bushes who had no right to impose a fine on the offender of the accident, but had the right to drink blood from it, filling out a record of the violation before sending it to court, which most likely would not consider it and, most likely, after that he would not pay. [[60 percent of credibility]] [[30 percent of credibility]] So the system has become ineffective as a minimum, DAI. So the president, by his decree, decided to reorganize the DAI, and this reorganization ends in the 20s of the current month. What's it all about? It's not about firing 10,000 employees, it's about transferring them to the post patrol, so today these patrols are going to be quick to come to the scene of a call that will improve the crime prevention situation in our cities. All these 10,000 will go into their familiar patrol system. That's all it was, and that's on foot. Of course, for the first two months, they expressed dissatisfaction because some were unable to locate the DPT, others were unable to write reports of breaches in public places. However, we have learned, won, and today in all places where such an experiment has, by the way, been carried out since April, this has shown efficiency. Thus, it was by means of this decree that a patrol service in Ukraine was initiated. A thousand more people will regulate the road in large settlements, particularly in Kiev. Another 2,000 people will make up a road police that will apply and the stationary points that we talked about today to conduct the operations of "covet", "capture" and so on. The rest of the people will be backing up, it's both MREO, and exams, and a lot of other things, technologies, and so on. As for the social protection issue of 10,000 people who are being reorganized into a single patrol service, they are not standing, they are going under worse conditions. At least it's official. Of course, I could ask them a question about what social protection the previous authorities had given them when the DAI employee received, excuse me, 360 bracelets in Kiev and stood in a frost, heat, rain on the roads. But I'm not going to do it because you're going to say I'm a politician again. I want to assure you, under our authority, no police officer has lost his social security. And as long as I'm a minister, he won't lose. Last question about the insurance alliance. I'm reporting he doesn't exist. It was really a corrupt system created by the previous management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the deputy behind the back was a system that was created when the parent enterprise was sitting in each division of the DAI and selling insurance policies to one of the small West Ukrainian insurance companies, this system was eliminated by you, the honourable national deputies, when you passed a law that prohibits any insurance company from being in the territory of the militia, the road inspection unit. So I'm going to testify that in no room of technology, or examination, or issuing documents, any insurance company is sitting. If you have other data, please give me this person's release for doing non-proprietary militia functions. But I know that big insurance companies, the ones that monopolized this market really give off the rewards that are totally illegal to some of the REO workers who are sending for a fixed-address insurance policy, across the street or across the block. This is illegal activity. I'm just saying that here, from the high court of the Supreme Council. Any police officer has no right to deal with insurance issues. Any insurance company under your law cannot be in the territory of the DAI unit. I'm not sure it's comfortable for people. For example, I'd review this rule and I'd say that in every DAI, there's a unit that trades all companies' policies for customer selection. At this point, however, the law must be strictly enforced.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u97	Orestes Klimpus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u98	Thank you. Orest Klimpush, Rahiv electoral district, faction of the “One Ukraine” party. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. Pay-per-view, pay-per-view, pay-per-view, pay-per-view, pay-per-view, pay-per-view, pay-per-view, pay-per-view, pay-per-view. All of these species do not need the use of force and weapons, nor do they need the many benefits that you, with the specificity of the power supply, need. I know your attitude, you're against giving up, but some of it has to be paid. What part are you ready to give in constructively now as a statesman, to give up normally? That's the first question. And secondly, what is the “extra registration costs”? Is that at the expense of the price? Is that due to the fact that there's twice as much registration? What Is It? What is it? Where did you find 400 million just like that? Maybe these 400 million were actually going to be found elsewhere? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u99	I'll answer that. Thank you for asking. I'll answer from the end, because that's the most serious question. An additional 400 million in car registration resulted from the total cost of the car being taken into account, and cars were not registered for free, as had been done before. Obviously, like many others, especially the Western Ukrainian MPs, you know the term "volinian clondayk," when thousands of cars registered with the MREO without paying the budget. According to the rulings of the courts, under the black schemes, they were simply registered without payment. All of this was in the system that vertically collected the proceeds, but not in the government pocket at all. Today, dozens of MREO and police officials are involved in criminal matters and are called to account for such corrupt schemes. All these schemes were broken down from the very beginning by the new leadership of the State Department of DAI Ukraine. General Colomiets, the man who suffered in his own time for trying to put order in this system, was appointed head of the department, and thanks to the hardness, demandingness and control of the MREO's operation, we're sweeping the machine at almost full cost. I say almost, because I still see reserves to increase this amount, because very often the companies that conduct the evaluation give a price for the new Volkswagen as an old gigul. That's what's still going on, unfortunately. By the way, I'm going to worry about the Supreme Council a little bit later to allow you, again, to do the authorized evaluation companies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Then there will be no depreciation of the customs value and of the disadvantage that still exists in us in the grey schemes of clearing and registering cars. Nevertheless, the fact is a fact. And the number of cars imported into Ukraine is almost the same as last year, and the budget payment for their billing is 400 million more. This is the great achievement of all law enforcement agencies. As for the whole set of previous questions, I'll put it very simply, I'm actually a theoretical opponent of any paid services that are provided by the police, any kind. But we need to be realistic: today the state and the Supreme Council are giving us a budget that can be allocated. And the budget that's being allocated to the militia is only enough for half the operation of the militia. If we cancel all the pay-per-view services -- both the tech and the registration, and the help, and so on -- it's going to be a disaster for the militia, it just won't be able to function. You know, today, the DAI seems to be, at best, 15 liters of gas per change, it's all at the expense of the S.H.I.E.L.D., it's all at the expense of selling services. This is unpleasant, but in these circumstances, the financing of the militia is a perfect fact. Someone might say, cut the police into two. I report that in order to shorten one police officer, it is necessary to cut two budgets for his maintenance, according to the legislation adopted on his pension. Therefore, an effective path is to gradually increase the state budget, including through police activities, through the fight against smuggling, through the fight against other criminal manifestations. Filling up the budget will reduce the need for a special fund. That's when we're ready to give it back. So let me tell you specifically, let me put it this way, by how much to increase the state budget, that's how much the special fund is reduced. We can't exist without a fixed amount. Little does life show that the police are effective, because if the police have discovered 19 billion of the theft of national property in nine months and 9 billion have been arrested according to court decisions, it can come into the budget, it is, for good reason, it eats its bread, believe me, I say it with knowledge of the facts. So at the moment, it's useless to cancel any pay-per-view services. But I'm pointing out to you that in the first month of my job at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I've cut from 5 to 12 times the cost of these services that are provided to ordinary citizens. For example, a certificate of indiscretion, a reference to a procedure or another procedure. 5, 6, 10, 12 bracelets, there were up to 100 bracelets, of course it was extortion. This caused tension for the people. At this point, I think these issues are quite settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u100	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, let's consult. I suggest you work all the time, but 30 minutes early. Is there no objection to the fact that we have finished 1:30? Yes, please, then, from the profile committee, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Moysik Volodymyr Romanovich. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u101	Volodymyr Moysik, Cologne Snetski constituency of the Ivano-Frankiv region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear government day! First of all, I would like to thank you, my colleagues, the people's deputies of Ukraine, for supporting the proposal of the Committee on Legislative Security to hold a Government Day in Parliament with the agenda "On the state of emergency on Ukraine's highways and urgent measures to improve road safety". The comprehensiveness of this problem is widely known, for it is the most important part of public security in Ukraine and today, more than ever, it requires an immediate and fundamental solution. Every day, the committee receives information from the IMF about the operational situation in Ukraine. Against the background of more or less stable rates of activity of the Ministry of Justice, traffic accident information is like the front of a merger. With only the difference that the situation on our roads is getting worse from day to day. Since 1995, we have lost several times as many people on the roads as we did in the 10 years of the war in Afghanistan. The number of road fatalities in Ukraine accounts for 13 percent of road fatalities throughout Europe, although our country accounts for only 2 percent of the cars available in Europe. Other impressive figures were cited by Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko in his report. Many politicians, average citizens of Ukraine, associate today’s deteriorating roadside situations with the approval of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 19 July of this year on the elimination of the Ukrainian State Automobile Inspectorate. However, let us ask the question that there is something in this decree that could lead to a significant deterioration in road safety. Perhaps the decree directs police officers who carry out road service, do not perform their duties of service, or does it allow drivers and pedestrians to violate traffic rules. Of course, there's nothing in the decree. There, as you know, is a position to transfer the functions of the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to reorganize the Department of State Inspectorate. Thus, the deterioration of the road situation should be linked, not to the approval of the decree, but to the ignoring of its requirements. This has contributed to the fact that the regulations were not properly explained to the IMF's own composition, to the general public of drivers and to the population, which led to their “refrignation”, which, we know, resulted in massive traffic violations and a significant increase in the number of car accidents. And today, you see from the media and from television screens, you're asked to protect yourself by both drivers and state inspectors. It is true that the decree did not improve the situation on Ukraine’s roads. Of course, the reason for his publication was not the reaction of the President of Ukraine to the misbehavior of DAI workers in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, as reported in the media, but the elimination of this service as corrupt. In this sense, however, it should be noted that the Decree did not strike for corruption but for its consequences. It cannot be overlooked that many of the interested persons, politicians, leaders, see only the reform of State inspection, the resolution of the entire problem of road safety in Ukraine. I'd like to caution against the widespread definition of road safety as essentially a police matter, with the corresponding shift of emphasis on liability for road accidents, solely on the Department of Internal Affairs. Then a logical question arises: “What should we do and how should we proceed?” In our view, the main priority is to get rid of the fraternity psychology in solving this state-wide problem and to realize that in order to effectively address it, it is necessary to implement a set of interlinked measures, not just to reorganize the State. Such a reform could be proposed. Establishing a system of state traffic safety management, conducting a thorough survey of the state of highways, highways, roads, and streets, equipping them with necessary road signs and markings, traffic lights, and so forth. Reorganize the driver training system, with the aim of re-testing auto schools at the state level rather than at the noticeable level. At the national level, develop and implement a system of pedestrian training, primarily aimed at educating them as road users. Establish new state-of-the-art requirements for the characteristics and technical state of transport equipment in accordance with international conventions on road traffic, agreements, standards, directives and technical regulations. Develop a single methodology for expert analysis of road transport accidents, their only register and harmonisation with the EU, standards for the use of road traffic accident statistics. Dear colleagues, if all these problems were solved, we could then take a different approach to the discipline of road users. There have been and and are many laws on how to deal with administrative material on traffic violations. Interested intelligence and this is what you heard from the minister's words, which is one of the reasons for the increase in road accidents in Ukraine, as amended by the law of April 5, 2001. I remind you that this law has given you the right to deal with a number of administrative offences committed by drivers to the courts, and this function has been transferred to the courts by former State Auto-Inspectors. The practical application of this law has given rise to many problems that have already been discussed and discussed among Ukrainian national deputies, senior government officials, judicial and law enforcement officials. I'm not sure that a return to the old systems that existed before April 2001 will significantly reduce the amount of traffic, but I think that the wise proposals made by IMF experts on this issue should not be rejected. Such proposals also support the judges of all levels, according to which administrative cases of traffic violations should be dealt with by the courts only if the offender disagrees with a report filed by a police officer and the granting of a person and in this case the right to sue police officers in a court of law. In this case, it is also felt that the reference to the jurisdiction of the administrative court of this category has a negative impact on the quality of criminal and civil proceedings, due to the high workload of these petty cases. Moreover, consideration of such vast amounts of material requires an increase in both the state of judges and the financing of the judicial system. In our view, the extrajudicial procedure for dealing with cases of administrative misconduct will be based on the principle of alternativeity, that is, applied only in cases where the offender does not deny what he has done or refuses to pay the fine on the spot. At the same time, any possibility of imposing a fine on the ground by a police officer must be excluded, so as not to create conditions for corruption. In the context of the problems noted, particular attention should be paid to the order of accountability for these offences. In our view, this order should contain elements that would ensure that the decision to apply a fine, including outside enforcement, is enforced. The practice shows that court sequestrations are not effective because they actually charge up to 10 percent of the fines. We believe that a legislative refusal to punish petty offenders and impose fines on them could also be made to limit the issue to warnings but to make them accumulating. Thus, after three or five warnings, for example, the wrongdoer becomes more dangerous than the one who committed only one wrongdoing, even more serious. That is to say, there is a need to enforce the repetitiveness and systemicity of traffic violations. This would also have a significant impact on what the Minister of Transport was talking about and on the activities of insurance companies. Legislatively, administrative responsibility should be increased for major road traffic violations, especially traffic management in a drug or alcohol state. This should reduce fines that remain in sanctions but increase fines. Today, even for the average Ukrainian, fines are not tangible and are not conducive to the observance of road traffic rules. We need to develop a legal mechanism by which the amount of an administrative fine would be determined depending on, say, the wages of the offender or the engine of his car. It may sound unusual to us in Ukraine, but in Austria, for example, the fine is determined by the size of the daily earnings. So when we deal with Zaporez, or with expensive cars, we might be able to differentiate the scale of the punishments of the wrongdoers. This is not the case, for example, when we draw a congregation on the customs office, depending on the cost and volume of the engine, when we apply these criteria in technical terms, it may be wise to do so in imposing fines. It is also necessary to develop a legal mechanism for the enforcement of fines when the driver refuses to pay it voluntarily and this mechanism would ensure the irreparability of punishment and the time for committing an offence to the actual punishment of the offender. Agree that a fine or other amount that is applied after six months or actually applied after a year is not effective, according to practice. The development and implementation of these and other legislative novels should create such a legal field when violating traffic rules becomes unfavourable for either of them, and it is also not convenient to pay a fine. Also, Adam Ivanovich would like to ask a few questions, as it were, organizational questions. Parliament's regulation stipulates that at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when the Government's Day is being held, the report is being made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine when it comes to the consideration of the government's activities as a whole or one of the vice-premiers or when it comes to the government's report on specific issues. Today Stanislav Telisforovich is present as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, but two ministers have reported on the issue. I will say that last September our committee organized a Government Day with the agenda on the status of reform and legislative enforcement of law enforcement agencies. Not only was the prime minister or vice-premier present, but even the first heads of law enforcement. Believe me, this situation is becoming a sad tradition. And I'm addressing all of us that we may need to have a Deputy Prime Minister in the government structure on business issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u102	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u103	No one in the country is thoroughly involved in law enforcement reform. So if we don't have such a separate responsible body, trust your honourable colleagues, our reforms will never end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u104	Thank you. Sit down, please. Yes, dear fellows, we will. No questions asked. Unforeseeable. Masenko's giving you a hint. Yeah, let's take 60 minutes to talk. According to established tradition, representatives of the MP factions will speak for five minutes. And then the rest of the time, if you stay, for the national MPs in the order of three minutes. Valerius Emptyovetenko, NDP faction. I can't see. Yes, please, Oreste Klimpus, Ukraine. Prepare Widow Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u105	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, the honourable members of the government, are invited. A significant reduction in the deaths and victims of the accident is really one of the most important tasks of the Ukrainian society. Because not just the number of accidents, but their severity worries us. Ukraine is indeed leading Europe with a high rate of accident, and the high rate of death and road traffic trauma cannot leave no Ukrainian indifferent. Only those who died in traffic for one million cars compared to Western countries have more than 5-10 times. It is remarkable that 90 percent of the victims are drivers, pedestrians, and passengers who died in car accidents. So these are the most massive users and consumers of this miracle of civilization. Today, an attempt is being made to understand both the scale of this problem and the root causes of this tragic social phenomenon and ways of radically improving the situation. We're dealing with a whole set of complex factors: drivers, cars, roads. And every component of this system has to be given what's right in terms of traffic safety. Very much attention has been given to the road as an ingredient, but not all the reasons for today’s safety issues. Statistics are imperfect, lopsided, not allowing us to analyze the situation, make decisions about improving the system, and reduce costs. It is clear to everyone that it is important to have qualified medical care, but today it is impossible to determine which part of the people who have died could have been saved if adequate medical assistance were provided under the international rule of the Golden Hour in any geographical location of Ukraine. There is no such statistics, there is no purposeful task at both the level of the State and its authorities responsible for solving the problem. Those who are responsible, I would like to highlight this word. In general, the lack of proper legal responsibility is clearly one of the main causes of a high accident on Ukraine’s roads. The new law in question should take that into account. There is no qualified investigation into the causes of the accident in our country, and this has been mentioned by the reporters. But there is an interesting situation here. Due to changes made to Ukraine’s legislation in May 2001, the fines on the spot of the DAI staff, the removal of licenses, and the removal of licenses were abolished. What changes in crash rates have occurred after changes in legislation have been made. It is clear that in 2002 there was no increase in the crash rate. However, between 2003 and 2004, these figures grew significantly. And not just because of the changes in legislation, but because of many different factors. Growth in economic performance. The increase in the number of cars. Gas consumption and so on. All of this has been overlooked in matters that have been handed over to us by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Of course, punishment must be irreversible and just. And the appropriate probable gravity of the crime. But it must be objective, documented, and educational. There is no point in going back to the compromised inefficient and unacceptable society of the old system. There is a need to create a new control system to ensure the implementation of traffic rules on new modern principles, as stated in the presentations. An important cause of high road accidents in Ukraine is the imperfect system of government management. It is not possible to maintain a position when the same authority issues a driver’s licence, conducts a technical examination, registers a vehicle, permits it to move, controls the implementation of traffic rules, and investigates the causes. Maybe that's why Yuri Vitaliovich was able to hide 400 million, and that's not all there is to it? Just because it's being implemented in one system, that there's no distribution of that? I think we should think about why one billion extra dollars should be paid by motorists? One billion people pay for the maintenance of the Ministry of Internal Affairs today. It's nonsense! This is insane! Let's change this situation. You have to divide these functions, as is done in the world. The first steps have already been taken. Prepared for second reading, the draft amendments to the Automobile Transport Act, which foresees that the state-owned technical control system will be carried out at tested stations and enterprises authorized for such control. I think the questions that have been raised here regarding changes to the law, they all have, they are relevant, we will support them. But I would like to take further note of the need to ensure effective changes in the driver training system. Regrettably, nothing is said or foreseen in providing medical assistance to disaster medicine and so on. And that's the last of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u106	Gennady Udovenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. He will be followed by John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ministers! The People's Movement faction believes that today we are discussing an extremely important issue that concerns, literally, every citizen of our nation. Because every two years in Ukraine, more citizens die in road traffic accidents than in the entire Afghan war, citizens of the former Soviet Union were killed. More than 60,000 killed and damaged citizens of Ukraine each year. This is a terrible indicator, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u108	Not every year, in 10 years, Gennady Josephovich, in 10 years 60,000. Or we'll scare people in 10, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u109	More than 60,000 killed and damaged, that's a terrible indicator. As a result of the accident, people become disabled for life and need constant assistance from the State and society, that is, the State has to take responsibility for these people. One reason for the crisis of road accidents is the State’s neglect of the major social values — human life and health. I would like here, although not very popular, to refer to the experience of the United States. When in 34 C.E., in a very difficult economic crisis in the United States, President Roosevelt was elected, what did he do first? He gathered the oligarchs, arranged for a childish economy, and that the government would carry out all the responsibilities of paying everyone according to legislation and income, which was important. The other one. There was a terrible unemployment in the United States. The U.S. highway construction program began. A few million people were busy at this job. Unskilled work was needed there. And so the United States came out of an economic crisis and built such a powerful state thanks to the roads. If we do not do so in our country, we will finally destroy what was built back in the days of the Soviet Ukraine in Ukraine. It was just an attempt at this new campaign to build this highway, Odessa Kiev. And now we can't count where these millions have gone. I'd like to tell you, I've been very impressed by the performances of both ministers, and I'm proud to have people like this. Well, the minister of the interior is a well-known political fighter, and he's actively involved in solving very complex problems in the city. I was impressed by the presentation by the minister of transportation and communication. Young, and I think there are great prospects in it. We have to support these people, support the government in solving very complex issues. A draft decree has been prepared. I think that, basically, this draft regulation can be agreed upon, based on it, a good draft decision, specific means. But what I do have is not only a representative of the People's Movement of Ukraine, but also the heads of the Human Rights Committee, these are the numerous registers that we have in our country, the voter register. Here is the only government register of persons admitted to transport control, the only national register of registered means of transport. You know, we've been policeing our country so much with these registers that we should seriously think about where we're going. We can absorb and lose all the democratic ones. Try to democratize our state. But most of the time, you can agree with this project. It's fine. The Minister of Internal Affairs compared.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u110	Thank you, Hennady Josephovich. John the Rabbit. After him, Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u111	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian People's Party is very concerned about the low level of road safety and the severe consequences of road accidents, namely human and material losses. If you read the statistics of the victims of the accident, it seems that you are reading the front messages. Every 15 minutes, a traffic accident occurs in the country, and almost every 2 hours a person dies. On average, 15 people die in accidents during the day, and about 100 are injured. These figures are more than the same as those of the democratic European states over 10 times. All of this tells us that authorities and citizens do not realize this depth, this constant one for our nation's tragedy. The Ukrainian People’s Party feels that the efforts of the authorities to remedy the situation are not enough, to say the least. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, therefore, calls on the government to pay considerable attention to this problem and to take vigorous measures to address it. According to our faction, the main reasons for this disheartening situation are, first, the irresponsibility of many drivers. But this irresponsibility does not in itself arise, it arises because of the fairly liberal attitude of our authority toward traffic violators, especially those with so - called cool numbers on the car. When will the hard work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs finally end with the establishment of a single sample of license plates? Will this be the end of the conversation? The time has long come for them to take over the national deputies, other high - rankings, the so - called mud numbers, the numbers with flags and figures, the series of the Supreme Council, and many others. These series and numbers are at least one and a half today, and all of you, honourable deputies, know where the mud is, where the corruption business is. Many accidents occur because of speeding. So we think we need to significantly increase the fines just for speeding up. Especially for those who drive outside the car’s control. Because we often see a painting like this -- it's on an old man's car, it's a few miles higher, it's stopped, and whoever's moving at 140 or 160, or 180 kilometers an hour, doesn't even have enough time to stop it. And he's drifting. And that's a state of unhappiness. With such a high speed, the sanctions should be increased. The authorities should take sufficient educational measures. Every day, especially on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, because we know that these are the days where the most accidents occur, we need those responsible through the media to contact our citizens, the drivers to increase their alertness so that they do not violate traffic rules, because each of these accidents is behind them, and again, the victims, it is someone’s grief and great misfortune. Similarly, we should turn to pedestrians. Nobody's talking about pedestrians, but we know 22% of the dead are pedestrians. So they're responsible for these road accidents. Another very important reason for these road accidents is the terrible state of the road. Especially the locals. I'm going to say that every year this danger gets worse. Why? If no one had flown these roads a few years ago, there was simply no way to start the car. Now, a few years now, you've been flying and going 5 to 10 kilometers, like a normal road, and then you don't know where the 20 or 30 pit comes from, or maybe more centimeters deep, and it's clear that it's a very big danger to the driver. So I'm very much asking the Ministry of Transport to look at the quality of the repairs, especially the local work. It's just that this is how you do it, that you can get a 20-gauge patch and you can't get one? You're in danger. I also want to say a few words about how our roads are decorated. When you travel on foreign roads, you are 20 times shown where to turn. We don't have these cursors today, we don't have road signs. Do you think it's such a huge cost? I think it's just the irresponsibility of the authorities in this direction. So I think we need to talk about a package of measures, we need to talk about the fact that authorities and citizens don't realize the depth of this danger -- this is the loss of people in road traffic accidents, that we need to take more educational measures and reinforce the coercion of the state. So people have to understand that someone's having fun going 150 or 160 kilometers an hour and someone's in a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u112	Thank you. But, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, for you, a hole of 30 to 40 centimeters -- is this a pit? Yes, please, Anatoly Frost. He's behind him, Yuri Crook.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u113	Anatoly Moroz, 83rd constituency, Zaporez region, "Go Ukraine!" faction, Volodymira Litvina. Dear colleagues! The area of road safety is one of the most important in the lives of people, as this issue is very important not only to our people but also to our nation. The thing is, traffic accidents kill and trauma the largest number of citizens. We talked about this in great detail today. But using the rostrum, I would like to stop and focus on some of the problems of the Zaporozhye region. The road network for the general use of the Zaporozhye area is 6,973 miles [6973 km] long, including the local highways, about 7,000 miles [7,000 km] long. In addition, there are 388 bridges of iron concrete pipes on these highways. Most roads and bridges are built in the '50s and '70s and do not meet the current requirements for speeding loads to operational standards and so on. The transport corridor Odessa-Melitopil-Novoazovsk, which is defined by Ukraine as a national and tourist route, runs through the territory of Zaporez. Its construction is designed to reconstruct and modernize the roadways and structures on the road. The area is also covered by the Kharkiv-Simferopol-Sevastopol highway, which connects Crimea to the northern part of Ukraine and Russia, with 30,000 cars per day. This road passes through populated areas: Zaporozhye, Vasilyvka, Melitopolis, which do not have bypass roads. In order to support the network of road users in general use, in good technical condition, according to science-based inter-repair terms, it is necessary to repair every year with improved capital repairs of 678 kilometers, facilitated by capital repairs, about 2,000 kilometres of roads. The estimated cost of repairs, including the current repair and maintenance of roads, is about half a million dollars. In fact, it's 5 to 9% for these needs, and for 2005 it's only 17%. What can we talk about? The constant underfunding of the road economy has led to a sharp decrease in the volume of road work compared to the regulatory requirements. And as a result, the area's road network is underprivileged. The biggest concern is the state of bridges, of which 56.9% do not meet the standards of gauges and load capacity. And they need immediate reconstruction. Substantial decreases in the volume of road work have had a negative impact on the number of workers in the field, resulting in the loss of a significant part of the production potential of road and urban organizations, a significant increase in the risk of accident on the highways of the area. Thus, in many of the popular public areas that take roads of general use, there is an unsecured safety of traffic and pedestrians, due to the absence of sidewalks, assemblies, and roadblocks. Especially in cities where urban enterprises are located, it is like the city of Tokmak of Zaporez. And there, in general, the terrible road situation, I'm going to tell you that this situation in Novo Bogdanovka with this great tragedy has demonstrated not only the whole of Ukraine, but beyond Ukraine everyone has seen what is the state of the road. This is exactly the way of traffic in the event that the main road, Simferopolska, was blocked. And that's why we need to look at the Cabinet of Ministers, and maybe the cities that are in a tough financial sleigh today, to help fix these roads. With regard to our colleague, I think that with the adoption of Ukraine's 2006 state budget without restrictions, the Ukrainian Road Finance Act should be put into effect without restrictions, ensuring compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Owners of Transport Measures and Other Machines and Mechanisms, which will allow for a substantial increase in financing on roads of general use of the area and address the most important problems of road traffic and traffic safety. Dear colleagues! A few words I'd like to remind you of. What we think is that the road adventures of Ukraine happen every 12 minutes, and the most precious treasure is that man dies every one and a half years. When we saw our Ukrainian peacekeepers die in Iraq in service, we immediately took the decision of the Supreme Council and called off the contingent. And when it comes to order in road and road traffic, we're not going to adopt those legislative acts, and we're not going to make order in terms of what we are, and in this vocation, and we've already adopted a number of laws that make it worse and more difficult for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other services to put order on the roads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u114	Yuri Crook, please follow him, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues and members of the government! Yuri Kruk, deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko, 140 constituency. Everyone knows that the main causes of road accidents in road transport are gross violations of traffic rules, working regimes and rest of drivers, lack of instruction and internships, poor road conditions. Speaking of the latter since the submission of our profile committee, for the first time in the last five years, the issue of the introduction into the 2006 budget by the Government of Yulia Timoshenko of 100 per cent implementation of the Road Finance Act adopted by the Supreme Council in 2000, which means that road financing will be approximately twice as high next year as it is in this regard. With plans this year of 2.7 billion, there should be more than 5.3 billion next year. Grieve. This is a specific legislative decision aimed at improving the safety of Ukraine's road traffic. An increase in road accidents is also associated with the organization of a public road inspection in the State Road Safety Service and the patrol service. By reorganizing the activities of GAI, the laws of Ukraine on militia, road traffic, road transport, the Code of the Law on Administrative Offences, and also the State Road Safety Programme for Ukraine, the streets of cities, other settlements and railway crossings for 2003-2007 were regulated. I will only stop at the above programme. This programme has been in operation for the third year. For eight months now, there has been a new Government and, nevertheless, the current budget for 2005 does not even provide for a time frame for its implementation. Moreover, the 2006 draft budget also does not provide a separate line for funding the programme, which indicates that the programme will either not be implemented at all in the absence of funding or will be funded in the residual principle. Statistics relate to the lives of thousands of people, as reported in two reports today. This programme for 2005 provides for the drafting of Ukrainian laws on urban, passenger public transport and the State specialized road safety fund. However, these bills were not drafted by Mintrans or the IMF. Moreover, a number of the bills provided for in the programme are submitted to the people's deputies, not to the Government. Dear Yuri Vitalevich, given that you have been a minister for eight months, much more than the Minister of Transport, i.e. you are a senior in the security and road transport sector, I hope that you will work hard and demandingly, please commit your subordinates to submit drafts for consideration by the Supreme Council for the implementation of the above-mentioned programme. This would not be a discussion at the bottom of the Government on the state of emergency on road roads, but rather a concrete solution to the issue through the legislature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u116	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, followed by Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u117	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. First Vice Prime Minister. What we are discussing today is what needs to be done in the state and what has not been done and why. So some of the accents, in my opinion, were wrongly placed today. Why is it wrong? Because two years ago we proposed a single comprehensive legislative act, to which none of the governments paid any attention, even though this legislative act was signed under it as a subject of the legislative initiative, President Victor Yushchenk of Ukraine. It's a code of road traffic laws, where all the problems you've been talking about, and increasing responsibility, and shortening the terms of the investigation, and everything is foreseen, including the assumed liability of road owners, all of this is foreseen. All you have to do is open your eyes and study this document. I am grateful that the committee has already passed it on legislative issues. And now I'd like to stop for some reasons, in my opinion, which can be improved by human factor. First of all, this is the elimination of regional transport companies by the Ministry of Transport. Practically, all the district government administrations were opposed to revoking the government's decree of December 4, 98, 1913, on the establishment of the Ministry of Transport's Automobile Administrations. As a result of this function, such as checking whether bus routes are compatible with the requirements of the rules on the provision of passenger and car services is not covered. No one assumes responsibility for checking the technical condition of buses, routes that carry passengers, and the medical condition of the driver, the presence of alcohol in his body, and so forth. This is a particular concern in rural areas, where they choose their own homes, courtyards, garages, and so forth as a parking area between flights. That is, the warning of the dangers of passengers in transport is that no one is actually involved. As a result of the 20,000 traffic violations, some 100 bus accidents have resulted in alcohol abuse. Buses, I emphasize! And here we should hear the head of the Supreme Court say why 85 percent of the people who are being prosecuted for administrative wrongdoing are unpunished, I mean, alcoholic drunkards who have committed a violation. And we've moved away from this one time, we've got ministers, so we're beating them up here. Let's listen to other participants, they're responsible to Parliament for the state of affairs that they are. Next. There are 2,000 vehicles equipped with violations of the relevant rules, regulations, and standards. It's all about organized transportation. Now for the myths. Among such myths is that the changes in the crash took place after the legislative changes took place in May 2001. I want to look at the numbers on this. According to the results of 2002, a year and a half after the introduction of the new rules, the number of deaths in the DTR did not increase, and the number of deaths decreased by two. The number of injured persons decreased by 280, respectively, to 38,000 196 and 37 thousand 916. The amount of traffic decreased by 93. So putting this as the main reason would be absolutely illiterate, you can't do that. That's one of the reasons why it's now balanced. But please tell me how many protocols are made, and how are pedestrians called to account? They're not attracted! Because walking is the most massive. This was more than 43 percent of all accidents last year, over 43 percent. Next: when will we have a transparent use of the road fund? When will we have a normal state road safety program? Because the programme that exists for 2003 and 2007 cannot be called a state programme -- there is no serious concept, its specific objectives and indicators, and there is no government funding for the actions of the programme. It's completely ineffective. We need to create a single inventory of DTPs that have had severe consequences, with a view to analysing and managing the response, adjusting the rules, requirements, standards, programs to improve insurance, and prevention. That's all it takes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u118	Thank you. Igor Šurma. Behind him is Alexander Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u119	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Today, in Ukraine, a state of emergency can be assessed as a social disaster. Seven thousand people die on Ukraine's roads every year and at least 40,000 are injured. We should also consider that in 2003-2004, somehow, there was a slight decline in the trend in the number of road fatalities and injuries. Yes, compared to 2003, the number of drivers involved in passenger transport dropped by 13 percent. And most importantly, the number of deaths in these accidents has dropped by almost 28 percent and the injuries by 11. Even so, the total number of road fatalities on Ukraine's roads was almost 7,000 and the total number of injuries was 54. Such figures indicated that the problem of road safety had to be addressed promptly but competently. Regrettably, this year’s competence was not sufficient for representatives of the orange authorities to make important decisions regarding the formation of public policy in this area. And this has led to tragic consequences, new numerical casualties. As a result of the adventurous administrative decisions of the oranges at the highest level, the road situation has deteriorated dramatically. It is known that in August of this year alone, 5,000,400 road accidents occurred, killing almost 800 people and injuring 7,000 people. These figures exceed the same figures last year by 21, 14 and 28 percent, respectively. Worst of all, it's not easy numbers -- it's the lives and health of thousands of people who could stay alive or at least not become disabled. For everyone, it is clear that it has become one of the main causes of the sharp increase in road traffic accidents. Presidential decree of July 19, 2005 on the elimination of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its practical implementation by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Not like the minister said today that this reorganization is an extermination. Such actions on a national level, whatever they may be, are not acceptable to their motives because of the lives of the people behind them. And there's good reason to believe that in this case it's about basic populism, trying to distract society from the Ukrainian foothills, killing people on the Goverle as a result of a senseless presidential pyar action. I believe that this is a crime for which both the President of Ukraine and the Minister of Internal Affairs should be responsible. Moreover, the traffic situation continues to deteriorate and is unclear when the order is set. How many more will die as a result of incompetent decisions made by high - ranking workers? There is no program of real action to reduce the number of people injured on the roads in the Cabinet of Ministers. Statistics on this subject are kept hidden even from national MPs. We didn't get data this September of the year. Many key issues are not limited to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, its departments, and its functional orientation. Unfortunately, at the national level, there is no solution to other problems. For example, the problem of the extremely unsatisfactory state of roads, which leads to accidents. 5 percent of those injured in 2004 are the result of inadequate road conditions. Appropriate transport and internal affairs ministers need to report periodically on the factors involved, such as the construction of underground crossings, transportation solutions, the installation of traffic lights, and so forth. The main problem is not only the famous decree, but also the absence of an increasingly well-founded public policy in the area of road safety, which would allow the issue to be resolved in a comprehensive manner. Of course, a serious concept is needed to address this range of problems that would be considered and approved by the Supreme Council in order to allocate adequate funds in the State and local budgets. In order to have a legislative report on these issues before the Parliament of the country. Without such measures, all problems cannot be solved. The decree to be adopted by the Supreme Council is notable. Paragraph 4 reads: In the course of the budget development, funding is provided. There will be no 100 percent funding and no need to vote in favour of a well - known popular decision. We are trying to modernize legislation to the European Union. We don't need the European Union with our roads. Go see what's going on. And when we talk about the dead, we need to talk about health care. I've already raised the question once that the Kiev-Chop route is 150 kilometers away from a normal emergency room, a reanimated car, and today the Skolev Hospital needs to be staffed with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u120	Alexander Bandurka, followed by Leonid Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u121	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national MPs, must certainly be able to resolve the issue of road safety in a comprehensive manner. The People's Party faction supports those proposals that have been made here by both ministers and are submitted by the Supreme Council Committee on Legislative Protection. And we can see that, first of all, we need to create a legal field for the activities and organs of internal affairs, the road police, the Ministry of Transport, and all the authorities that have to ensure road safety. If we do not speak, but reform or liquidation, or the restructuring of the State Automobile Inspection, has had a negative impact on the state’s state of transport discipline, and it is therefore necessary to speed up the resolution of the legal commissions on the line. This is first of all to amend the Law on the General Structure and Numbering of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Police Act, the Road Traffic Act, the Insurance Act, the Code of Laws on Administrative Offences, and a number of other laws that cannot be implemented without change, what Interior Minister Yuri Vitaliyovich has reported here. And there is certainly a question of human order. There are issues of propaganda, promoting traffic rules, starting with kindergartens, schools, and ending up in the streets and other public places. It is the issue of legal propaganda as part of a healthy image of life, the observance of the rules of road traffic in the state today, harshly said, abandoned below the plentou. Nobody does that, not the Ministry of Education, not the Ministry of the Interior, not the Ministry of Transport, not the public organizations that are supposed to do it. We can see that the Cabinet of Ministers is urgently required to make proposals to the Supreme Council for changes to legislation relating to road safety. The restructuring of the DAI needs to be urgently completed, structurally and, above all, functionally by developing a position on the road militia or what it will be called. And, of course, if we are to give a new structure a great deal of authority, we also have to see the mutual responsibility that all road users have to bear. We can see that the proposal by the Legislative Committee for Law Enforcement to establish a Road Safety Coordination Council under the leadership of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine to reform the State Road Safety Management System and coordinate the implementation of measures to achieve the goal of 50 per cent reduction is essential. And we would ask the deputies, when the Supreme Council ruling on this issue is voted on, to accept it. And on the other hand. Of course, those positions contained in the reports and the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Transport and in the speeches of the national deputies, the factions, should be taken into account. So we would suggest, Adam Ivanovich, a draft determination to work out how to accept it as a whole during plenary sessions next Sunday. And the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to increase road safety is considered unsatisfactory. Even if there weren't thousands of dead people that we have on Ukraine's roads today, it was hundreds, and it's people's lives that need to be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u122	Thank you. Leonid Vernigore. Behind him is Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u123	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, the honourable chairman! Dear radio listeners! I, who worked for a very long time in the transport system, today is very painful for the condition of our manufacturers, where the workplace is the highways. Sorry, when you are on the road today, that sad mortician, those monuments standing there, they remind you that they have been fighting and leaving behind the graves of unknown soldiers. Today, well, first of all, it's a question of whether or not they should be scaring people, or maybe this kind of educational function of these "remembrances" is falling apart. But I would like to start by saying that, if Hennady Josephovich Udovenko here is proud that Yuri Vitaliyovich and the Minister of Transport are young, our young friends, I am not only proud, but proud that Yuri Vitaliyovich came out of our faction. And when I saw the "I'm coming to you" transmission yesterday, and when 80 percent of the respondents support you, Yuri Vitaliovich, you are even more determined to go on you and go on what really happened to us on the roads and in our two fields. I've already asked you a question. What it's like when we put the transporters and the roads together, we thought we'd finally set things straight and that would be even better. Today, as if we are united in such a way that these three ministries, or two, will be responsible, will not be so long as it is not today global or in the Supreme Council that the organization of the movement on our roads will be decided by law. I know, just recently, just recently, we started and ended up working in a state-owned auto-inspectorship. There wasn’t a day when we wouldn’t have traveled along with them, fixed the road, and knew where our cars would be driving. I'm not saying that we had more security than self-inspecting. It's the other way around today. And the President rightly reminded us that we don't need that kind of self-inspection. We don't need those people who pick up the driver from the bushes, they scare him that he's on the way to the landing with the car to get him fined, and those who have to arrange the traffic on the road. And I think we can do it here. To the Ministry of Roads. I did not in vain ask what to do about the fact that on a mile [one km] of routes along 10 illegal roads and from every freeway on the road. And you tell me that in five years you will be making solutions, maybe you and the maple leaves will be so beautiful. But what about today, where that grave is, there is an illegal road coming out of the woods? We call it either a desert or a road, but there's cyclists, tractors, and combines. Indeed, it has been easier before, since large - scale businesses are also there, and today a carrier leaves every yard. Who's on Craze, who's on CAMAZ, who's on the car, who's on the tractor, and who's out of control, who wants to drive, who's in trouble with our work. So I ask you, Yuri Vitaliyovich, to go after the corruption that has taken place in this service for bribery. I'll tell you that what I asked you about Alexander Alexander, well, we all seem to love about autoinspecting, but today we know at what price rights are bought. And you know that he was driving to work today, and in front of me, imagine, a car rides, two young girls driving behind him, and the letter "U" is written in the back window. Next to the shoes is a woman with such a pin and a red car. Clearly, I would have traveled it by the 10th, so four rows. And they want to go somewhere faster, and they cross, that is, conditions, of course, so that people can drive quietly and beautifully. So I know that your reforms are on time today. Don't be afraid and please reinstate all the autoinspects where the cafes are, the cafes, they're still in there. There must be a ministry that will help not only to accompany the deputies but also all people to know that it is a safe part of the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u124	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Rules prohibit distractions on the road, so you have to look at the road, not at girls. Please, Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction. Behind him, Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, with respect to this issue, I believe that it is necessary, first of all, to draw the right conclusions, to examine what was the system of measures to combat such negative phenomena at the beginning of independence, that is, in the 1990s. There was a driver training system, a strict system for the protection of its rights and, above all, the duration of the day, the responsibility of the driver for road accidents, the driver training system, the promotion of emergency work, monthly traffic safety, the work in schools of the entire system of the one we are talking about. For each of the settlements, there was a plan that was implemented and fully funded for the construction of roads. Why did I start talking about this? Indeed, in my view, ministers do not view human life as their primary task. Today, in the report before the Supreme Council, a superficial, mild-tempered approach did not reveal the true causes, nor did it analyze the depth of the negative processes that allow a person to soak in steering to endanger the lives of others. Society is constantly under stress from the problems that once created by the authorities. from the meat, sugar, gasoline, from everyone else who is connected to his life, and in this condition he goes out into the street and sits behind the wheel. The system just kills people today. Increasing numbers of protocols are being drawn up each year. The figures show that radical measures must be taken and that the measures of the Ministers of Transport and Home Affairs are now focused or directed, as they say, at unpopular measures, first of all to re-enter the pockets of a simple person rather than to increase the responsibility of the citizens of Ukraine. What is it? I would like to invite the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior to come in and take a licence for transport today, especially abroad, without bribe. Today, drivers are heavily exploited in the pursuit of profits. There is no trade union protection of their rights at all. There is no public technical inspection of the vehicle entering the route. The shadow economy has led us to have a hired workforce from other areas of the city of Kiev, to sit for transportation, to not know the city, and in pursuit of over-employment, they are now constantly prescribing the emergency situation on the roads of the city of Kiev. Speed cars and road surface mismatches are also one of the reasons. None of the leaders are responsible because it is the private sector. The main thing for him is profit, not life. He's getting a bit of an over-the-counter opinion. In general, they forgot what five minutes of safety regulations were. The Ministry does not organize road traffic. The infrastructure of our transport arteries is not being improved. Contraband is being transported, criminal groups are being revived, and this is also a constant threat to the same peaceful population. In fact, there is no medical check-up on drivers, and by going on the road, as I said before, they provide prerequisites for the threat to the lives of our people. I don't want to be insulted right now, but I'll tell you what it is and how I personally feel. This is bar foolery, adopted by the President's decree to abolish activities. It's illegal, by the way. The 7th article of the Police Act should be well known where it is written that the State Auto-Inspection is an integral part of the militia. I'd like to ask myself a question, understand, and apologize to those women whose sons or children died on the roads when drinking all over the country? When organized crime began to fester on the roads, knowing that no one would stop anyone, and all the more so. I'd like my friends to let us know today, and whose roof is covered by a whole bunch of super-business smuggling cars stolen by cars, including that the police have not been on the Kiev author's list on many occasions? Can't you see what's going on here? What stories about the white bull tell us, what courageous acts are being done. In support of some of the suggestions that have been made here, I would like to say the following. We obviously need to spare no funds for disaster medicine, the primary task of which is to heal power today and immediately. We have to send an ambulance every day so that they don't make stupid decisions. Because the Cabinet of Ministers, as a team of terminators, works only to accomplish one task: to destroy what the predecessors did not destroy. I believe that such a way of resolving the problems of the maintenance of the State is criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u126	Thank you. Mikola Onichtuk. And there will be time left for the people. Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u127	Mikola Onischuk, a faction of the political party of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Honourable Chairman, Honourable Members of the Government, Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! Since the topic discussed by Parliament today applies directly to you and concerns your safety. The subject of discussion, Government Day, has not only matured, but has already matured. I think it's safe to say that the problem that concerns citizens has become a national problem, because, as mentioned in the speeches today, we are dying of more citizens' road accidents than we are losing in wars. At least when it came to our participation in the war in Iraq. Dear friends, I would also like to point out that economic spending on VAT today accounts for almost 3 percent of gross domestic product. That's as much as we're losing today, by the way, from the State Health Finance Budget. So as a human being, as a representative of the faction of entrepreneurs in Parliament, I cannot stay away from the problem under discussion and would like to stop at some of the most important of them. First, and the closer I get as a lawyer, the problem is that we have to radically change the system of responsibility for road accidents. And unfortunately, the Parliament voted in favour of abolishing the right of road inspectors to impose, directly apply administrative fines as a form of responsibility for administrative offences. And if you remember correctly, then we transferred this function to the courts, which, by the way, to the courts. Which, by the way, has created a huge problem for the courts themselves, because the level of burden on a single judge on administrative matters is one that prevents him from carrying out a normal, effective and qualitative examination of civil and criminal matters. I'm going to point out that this is not a function of the courts. And this is a doctrinal error that we believe that the authorities of administrative jurisdiction do not have the right to apply administrative connections. Courts should be associated with these disputes only if citizens are accusing the appropriate action of an official. As is well known, the then adopted Administrative Procedure Code, which, by the way, adequately protects the interests of the person who seeks to defend the violated right. I think that today's Government Day is a kind of prelude to a review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the relevant Ukrainian law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, where we still have to change the system of administrative mergers. Naturally, it's not about having to do this, it's about getting directly to the PAI representative or there's another government service that's going to be authorized to do this, but it's about having the right to apply the sanction directly. That is how the whole world works, and we must return to it if we are to change the situation for the better. That there's a problem with this system, yes, by the way, and even if there's an existing enforcement system, i.e., supply of connections, I think it's already a problem of the efficiency of the state executive service. And here we have to agree: in what way will the inspectors, who will directly impose, be applied as a sanction for the violation, in which way they will be provided by the state executive service. But it's a technology that needs work, but it's one that can be solved. And to conclude, your honorary colleagues, it's also about that we need to take a thorough look at the type of sanctions we have for violating traffic rules. It has been rightly pointed out today in Parliament that there are minor violations that are obviously necessary to abandon the use of property sanctions, to limit their comments. But there are disorders that lead to the ability to enter into, which are considered rude and can lead to consequences, including trauma, including even fatalities. Here is the act of law and the sanction for such violations must be more substantial in order for citizens to realize the possible consequences, including economic consequences, than theirs, of such violations. Honorary colleagues, the draft decree made by the Government and, in particular, the parliamentary committee as a whole, can be supported. At least it can be voted on as a basis, there are many reasonable suggestions that apply, including measures for propaganda and in schools, even children's schools, to the need to comply with traffic rules. There are measures that are also relevant to the need for a substantial containment of the problem of obsolete technical equipment and their import into Ukraine, and there are measures to improve the control of technical standards and standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u128	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, followed by Maria Marcus. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u129	Dear Vassili, the People's Party of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, in fact, in a large way, today we had to listen to a slightly different question. We should have listened to the progress of the State road safety programme, streets, cities of other settlements and railway crossings in 2003, in 2007. Because what we're listening to today is, I would say so, it's a general conversation. What we do is where we go, what we want, and what the program says, and it would be clear what the Supreme Finance Board should do, what the Cabinet of Ministers should do as the coordinator of the executive branch. What should the GAI do, what should the public service do on the road? Who, in general, should do all the more that the programme has been in operation for the third year. I understand the situation, if there is no money in the budget last year, and there is no plan for the future, then there is no point in talking about the programme. Because it's just a waste of time and energy again. Why? In discussing the topic, I would like to say, in the context of today's discussion, that the issue of traffic security remains still unresolved, no matter how reformed the gai is. And I'm just going to give an example in the Lugansk region. The level of emergency in the last year has increased by 50 per cent and, to be the case, I believe that the decree adopted on 19 July has not added value and some effect on this subject. I have to say, of course, that everyone understands their own way. The population understands that corruption must be combated in public self-inspecting bodies. This is true for us to establish a mechanism, and, unfortunately, not in one of the reports, including in the Minister's report, we have not heard the anti-corruption system in the Gosavto inspection bodies. But on the other hand, we must probably listen to the self-inspection itself, which suggests that if the principle is violated, every violator must be held accountable for what has been done, and that is not in the best interest of the case. But in particular, there are examples and we need to talk about a topic that is called the chain interaction of the court by the State executive service. In the same Lugansk region, 187,000 administrative materials were sent to the courts during 2004. The Executive Service has delivered 101,000 and where are the remaining 86,000 violators? What needs to be done in this situation, but the first is, of course, to decide on the issue of the timely exchange of information between the Ministry of Internal Affairs Gosavtoinspect, the courts and the State Executive Service. It is necessary to ensure that the courts comply with the requirements of administrative law on the imposition of penalties. It is necessary, however, to return to the question of what Gosavtoinspection is and its right to make its own decisions on the ground. The fines and the fine on unpaid fines are also a subject to be addressed. In conclusion, we must clearly understand that by establishing a single mechanism where both the inspector and the driver are present.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u130	Please, Maria Marcus, the Communist faction, and we'll summarize.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u131	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Honourable Head, Honourable Deputies, and Hearing Participants. The problem that is being addressed today concerns all citizens of Ukraine. It's not a police problem, it's part of public security in Ukraine. The acuteity of the problem is evident when we compare national statistics at the queen’s safety level with those in European countries. Last year, 46,000 road accidents killed more than 7,000 citizens and injured about 54,000 of them, including 5,000 children killed and more than 5,200 children injured. The damage from these accidents amounted to more than 16 billion. That's right. In the last five years, more than 173,000 traffic accidents have been recorded in Ukraine, killing 28,000 citizens and traumatizing more than 2,000 people — more than twice the number of deaths in Afghanistan during the 10 years of the war. More than 90 percent of all fatal injuries are working people. 13 percent die from untimely medical care, and three quarters of adventures are caused by drivers. It's a sad statistic, this problem needs to be solved in a complex way, because today we're trying to solve it without a system. Conferences were held, committee hearings, recommendations, conclusions, and decisions were drawn. Yet, no one is going to solve this complex problem. Its solution should be approached in three ways. Addressing the problem by improving the legal base, improving the state of the road and the technical state of transport, forming a moral and psychological consciousness and raising culture in the queen's safety of motorists and pedestrians. I hope that the solution to the first component of improving the legal base is interlinked and will be a possible solution to the issue of law enforcement reform when the same body does not control itself, coordinate its actions, supervise itself. In addition, a national programme should be developed that clearly sets priorities for traffic safety issues, where a whole set of measures aimed at solving traffic safety problems would be developed. It is also necessary to initiate an interdisciplinary commission to deal with traffic safety issues. This practice had already taken place with the Soviet authorities, when no traffic accident, which left five or more people unaccounted for, and a government commission was on the scene, and such an adventure was seen as an extraordinary event. In this regard, the Cabinet of Ministers’ decrees were adopted at the state level, a higher responsibility for all, from driver or mechanics to minister. There must be a coordinating body at State level that will coordinate and ensure effective, safe traffic on Ukraine's roads. Such a commission can develop the concept of a state-wide road safety management system and design a national road safety programme. Ukraine also needs to reconcile national legislation with international road safety standards, since nothing has changed since Soviet times. I have to put it on a new one. the relationship between the perpetrator of the accident and the victim. The issue of reparation calls for a new approach. We need to move away from the practice when someone who has suffered injury is still suffering.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u132	Thank you. Time's up. Yes, dear colleagues, we will sum it up. Please, Victor Vasilovich, is there a need for a closing word? None. Yuri Vitaliovich, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for your attention, for your constructive criticism, and for your support for some of our positions. I very much hope that we will soon meet you in the introduction of a draft law that addresses all the major, painful problems that arise in Ukraine's ways. I want to emphasize one thing, and in Soviet times, 50,000 accidents per year, and today about 34,000 per nine months. This problem existed and exists, a whole set of measures that, of course, need to be improved, especially given that the number of cars in Ukraine has increased by 2 million. So in this case, there's no simple solutions, it's all complicated enough. But, above all, the strategic direction that we see, which I think today was support in the hall, is improving the condition of highways, it's improving the responsibility for violations and it's a serious fight against corruption by maximizing the involvement of technology and automation in the work of the militia. If these two elements, which are defined by the future bill that tomorrow is being considered in the Cabinet of Ministers, are supporting the people's deputies, then we will all do our duty together to the Ukrainians who are using our roads, and by the way, we will take a big step towards moving to Europe. I would like to remind you that one of the conditions of entry into Europe is a radical decline in the number of accidents that, unfortunately, exceeds all possible norms of the European Union in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention, for your constructiveness, and I look forward to your support for the government bill that will be submitted to the Supreme Council for days.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-11-m0.u134	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues! Indeed, everyone who was to speak today, both reporters and coreporters, and representatives of the MPs, stressed the particular relevance of the problem. It's relevant not only to us, to every state of the world, but it's probably the most pressing problem, really, for us, our population. You used to call these scary numbers, really, that more people die than they die in wars, there are figures that every 15 minutes an adventure, that is, imagine, we talked to you about this situation, and in that time, up to 20 adventures, I'd like to hope that they're not on our country's roads at all, it happened. The data provided by the Cabinet of Ministers tells you that in the world, up to 3 percent of gross domestic product is lost annually. I think if we count it, it's probably in order above. How much do we lose from this lookout, the lookout, on the one hand, sorry for not the parliamentary statements, and on the part of the drivers, and on the part of those who have to guarantee the safety of the movement and the road, and those who regulate the movement. One of the main issues that is being discussed, which today has been given an absolute majority of the time, is and will be, as the minister said in the closing statement, soon to be in the session room again -- that is the measure of responsibility and the strengthening of punishment. Perhaps each of you will agree that this is a two - ended stick. On the one hand, indeed, yes, the impunity of drivers leads to what is being done. On the other hand, we know very well why and what led up to the cancellation of the meetings of fines and beatings on the spot. Although I don't think the state won, the drivers didn't win. So here we have to look for a reasonable compromise, here we have to look for a golden middle, how to solve this problem. Because, in my opinion, it's the most important thing to do is to raise our obedience. As long as we don't bring it up, it's going to be very difficult for us to expect purely administrative, even criminal punishment, because we have a pretty severe punishment, we see, but measures -- not only, I mean, on road transport, but not enough. And perhaps all of this should be shown by us with you, this rule of law, obedience, national MPs, those who create laws, and those who are bound to do so, including us. Because, of course, what happened to the President's decree about the State Automobile Inspection doesn't grace our state because there were other legal ways: to go to the Supreme Council, to make changes to the laws, to eliminate what's in the laws, and then to reorganize. It would be much more productive, more beautiful, sorry for that word, and a visual example of how we all have to abide by the laws. Well, that's what happened. We need to look for a way out, and I think it's practically already found, the way out of that situation, is through with the reorganization. But again, I stress that we need to speed up everyone's consideration of the issue so that it can be regulated by law, not by the President's decree or by instructions and orders from the relevant ministries. One more thing I'd like to pay attention to is that some of the speakers here are pretty negative, and we're critical of the Odessa-Kiev highway or Kiev-Odessa. Let's separate the flies from the cauldron. What little abuse there is from one opera, let those to whom it belongs under the law understand. But let's say that if we had more of these roads, we'd have something to be proud of. This is the only road in our country so far, with the exception of 10 km of road to Borispil, which meets any international standards. The fact that it's not built, again, is another problem. But at any rate, those who are able to use and use the roads of our country may say that the cost is in vain. Stealing is another matter, let's work it out. But in general what we stole, we don't need to build, I think we can go very, very far with you. I'd like to ask for a profile committee, and this is where Alexander Markovich said that they're working on a draft decision according to our discussion. Let's do it, bring it to the next meeting, take it. And I would ask, once again, both the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and profile committees, especially all of us, let's, when we look at it, I'd like to look at this law in the near future, find such understanding that we take reasonable steps to improve this case, so that we don't go out, press the buttons, from the fact that in each of us or in many of us one car or two cars, sometimes we are behind the wheel, and we are out of the general interest of the state. I thank everyone for participating in our Government Day. Thank you, Stanislav Telisforovich, ministers, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, and I remind you, dear friends, that tomorrow we have a 15-hour parliamentary hearing with you on "Problems of the Democratization of Power in Ukraine. The extension of local self-government rights" and the next session of the Supreme Council will begin on October 18 at 10 a.m. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Good luck.
