ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. There's a registration. [[10:02:02:02]] Registered -394 The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputies Draguntsov Sergija Ivanovich and Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanović. Let us welcome our colleagues, wish us health and success in our work. Dear National Deputies! I now ask for information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on 21 September 2005. Three questions of the day have been considered. As a result of their consideration of the Government's 2006 draft State Budget. Adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for preparation for consideration in the first reading. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday we had a meeting of leaders of MP groups and factions, leaders of political parties who are represented in Parliament and have factions, with the President of Ukraine, acting as Prime Minister of Ukraine. We discussed the processes that are taking place in Ukraine, as well as the President's appointment, more specifically, of granting approval for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. A decision has been taken, and the President has resubmitted the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for appointment by the President of Ukraine as Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. At 9: 30 a.m. today, we held a meeting of the Conciliation Council and agreed that at 11: 00 a.m. we would consider the matter. Dear colleagues, with motive, please sign up for five minutes. For the reasons for today's meeting schedule. Yes, on board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Catherine Seminalic, Communist faction, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm asking all my colleagues very much. I give the word to John Alexanderovich, and I would like to hear him speak, because today is a very big partisan day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u3	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today, the people of Ukraine celebrates for the fourth time the State Day of Partisan Glory, which has been set before the people of Ukrainian partisans in the years of the Great Homeland War of the Soviet people against the German-Fashistic invaders. At the appeal of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the Soviet Government to deploy the guerrilla movement in the occupied territories, more than 500,000 guerrillas and hundreds of thousands of underground invaders volunteered to combat the German Fascist. Out of this number, 46 large guerrilla units of up to 5,000 and about 2,000 guerrilla units of smaller size were formed. The Partisans, engaged in active hostilities, destroyed the enemy's living strength, dumped railway echelons, exploded bridges, destroyed control stations, stockpiles of weapons and ammunition, and other facilities. Combating both Fascist-German troops and UN-OPA formations. Thus, it was only during the shining Carpathian raid that over four thousand fascists were destroyed, 19 railway echelons were despoiled, 14 railways and 38 highway bridges were destroyed, three power stations, 20 telecommunications units and other facilities were destroyed. The Fascists dropped three Wehrmacht divisions against the cowboys and the Ukrainian rebel army of Cesuhević. During the period since the Battle of Kur, guerrillas have completely blocked the delivery of the German-Fashistic front of living force, weapons and fuel. In 1943, guerrillas fully controlled the vast areas of Rowenska, Žitomirsk, Volynsk oblasts with territories equal to Denmark and Belgium combined. Again, the Ukrainian rebel army of Suhević, working together with Hitler's captors, was the main opponents of the guerrillas. More than 120,000 guerrillas participated in the fight for the liberation of Kiev, which listed and detained 25 shipments through Dnieper, Right and Pripet. All over the world, the names of the famous commanders of the largest guerrilla groups, twice the Heroes of the Soviet Union of Kovpak, Fedorov, Saburov and other commanders are known. The entire world is recognized as a significant contribution by guerrillas to the great victory of the Soviet people. It was indeed the fifth Ukrainian front in the rear of the enemy. Thousands of guerrillas and underworlders have died in the fields of fighting for the honor, freedom and independence of our country. The remembrance of them will live forever in ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u6	Basil Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite you to make the most of the thought that we spend very much of our time not functionally. I want to pay attention. Today's agenda contains changes in the legislation on higher education. We have, we have to consider and adopt laws on compulsory scientific and scientific and technological activities, on pension insurance, on increasing assistance to children, on amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans, on guarantees of social protection for the elimination of differences between laws, on the need to consider a whole group of laws on persons with disabilities, on the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities in Ukraine, on the employment of persons with disabilities. I therefore wish to say only one thing: the agenda is full. I urge everyone to work it hard enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u7	Mikola Kulczynski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u8	I believe that one of the first issues should be the decision “To grant approval for the appointment of Prime Minister of Ukraine Yuri Yehanurov”. This question, what we did not approve last time, Prime Minister Yehanurov, caused surprise and disappointment in Ukrainian society. I wanted us to consider this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u9	Valentin Zubov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u10	Valentin Zubov, Faction Block of Yulia Timoshenko, All-Ukrainian Association of Batkivščina. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies to the fact that, in my view, we are today considering the nomination of the Prime Minister, candidate Ehanurov, simply not entitled. First, two days ago we had discussed this issue. We have made a decision. We did not support this nomination, all of us in the Hall. The question is, what is the purpose of the President's second nomination? Are there any other factors that play a role in this matter of bribery? Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am deeply convinced that by asking such a question today, we humiliate our Parliament, as President, Speaker of Parliament, we humiliate the people of Ukraine. Because the most serious political procedure is becoming a common market farce.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u11	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u12	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. May I have a word with Mikola Rudzkowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u13	Mikola Rudzkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, national deputies. I want to contact you from the Socialist faction. Tomorrow we will consider the situation in agriculture. I ask you all to participate in this session tomorrow not only to discuss the catastrophic situation that has now arisen with the implementation, first of all, of the grains, with the implementation of sugar, with the provision of fuel-oil materials and other problems that have accumulated there. And tomorrow, decisions were made under the law that had been passed, either to increase funding or a reserve fund, or to make a reservation, or to the Agrarian Fund. So that we could buy grain and sugar, and agriculture could sown. Otherwise we won't go to the village, and in the following year we'll take it back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u15	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So I realized that you've signed up for the procedure, so I thought we should talk about how we're going to conduct a procedure to discuss the appointment of the Prime Minister. Will it be a complete procedure, as it was the first time, or will it be a shortened procedure? It'll start at 11, like you said? But let's talk about this question so the factions are oriented: recording, not recording, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, regarding the observation made by Valentin Zubov. In accordance with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is stipulated that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not grant the candidacy proposed by the President, the President of Ukraine should apply for another candidate within 10 days. In accordance with the Constitution, however, the President's right to introduce the same candidature or other candidatures is not limited. And there is an explanation of our Legal Office that the President has the right to re-candidate. This right has been exercised by the President of Ukraine. As far as the procedure for dealing with this issue is concerned, I think the honourable colleagues, so that when we approach this issue, we will discuss the procedure. Yesterday there was a suggestion that, since we had already heard the presentation of the candidate’s program, the answers to the questions were, if asked by the deputies, obviously the candidate should answer them. If he wants to express his position on the candidate, it is obvious that this should be the case. But I think the positions have already been formed, the thoughts have already stood still. When we get to the question, we'll figure it out. Dear colleagues, we have agreed at a meeting of the Conciliation Council that, given that we have extremely many issues to consider, to adopt in the second reading, to ratify a number of agreements, to consider laws with the comments of the President of Ukraine, we will work in an organized manner. Where questions do not raise objections, we will simply make decisions. And where we're going to have the debate and the discussion, we're going to do it. The question of the election of individual National Deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the Supreme Council Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday at a committee meeting, a statement was made by the Ukrainian National Deputy Didenka Yuri Volodymyrovich, a member of the Ukrainian People's Movement MP for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. Considering that in this committee, and more faithfully in all parliamentary committees, the calculated quota for the Ukrainian People's Movement is 0.6, and that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour today does not work, the Committee on Rules has decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Mr. Dídenko Volodimirovic. And for consideration by the Supreme Council, there is an appropriate draft decree to elect him as a member of this committee. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 8180, on the election of the National Deputy Didenko Jury Volodymyrovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour is submitted to the vote. The same proposal is supported by the committee. Please vote. [[10:16:57]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u20	Yesterday, the committee also discussed a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Filendasz Evgen Vasilovich, a member of the Socialist Party’s parliamentary faction on the election of him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism. The calculated quota for this faction on the parliamentary committees for today is 1.1. And it's already been used. As with this committee, there is already one employee of this faction, Gaddaecki Leonid Mikhailovich. Therefore, the Rules Committee decided not to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Philindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u21	Please, on this point, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u22	Dear fellow MPs, this is Deputy Eugene Flindash, a young man who is fully in line with his calling to be on this youth committee. It's not about the foreign committee, it's not about the financial, it's not about the budget committee. It's about a committee that doesn't have other deputies. I would like to support, regardless of the decision of the Ethics Committee, so that it can implement itself there, because it is his calling and his direct work and age that is appropriate, and all the data that is relevant. However, I repeat that this is not the prestigious committee for which different factions are fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u23	Yes, Your Honor, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Philindash as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on youth policy, physical culture, sport and tourism. Please vote. [[10:19:35]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, a statement was made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by national deputy Stephen Mikhail Volodymirovic, a member of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine for his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Labour. Yesterday it was also discussed at a meeting of the Rules Committee. Taking into account that the calculated quota for the MPI faction that I spoke about before is 1.1, and that the committee already has one of the representatives of this faction of Vernigor Leonid Mihajlovich, the committee has also decided not to support the statement of the Ukrainian national deputy Stepanov. Your right, Your Honor, to be determined by this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Stepanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u26	Respectable colleagues! People's Deputy of Stepanov, faction of the Socialist Party. Last time I convened eight years, I worked on this committee as the head of the subcommittee and as the Vice-Chairman of the Committee. There are six months left, so I would like to be able to work on this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u27	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u28	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, as the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, I personally asked my colleague Stepanova to join us on the committee. What I'm saying is that now, in the committee and as far as parliamentary elections are concerned, the number of legislative initiatives, your colleagues, is increasing, and that's why we need professionals like Stepanov, because he really worked for us, he worked for us all the time, he's a natural specialist in the field of social protection for the population and work. So I strongly ask, I understand that quotas are being broken, but I think all quotas have already been broken at first, including with regard to committee leadership, substitutes and so forth. As an exception, please vote for Stepanov as a member of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u29	Yes, honourable colleagues, there is a motion to vote on the election of the Ukrainian National MP Stepanova as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. Please vote. [[10:22:48]] For 231. Decision taken. A draft Decision on the 2005 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government, is being announced for consideration. Oleg Petrov, secretary of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. First of all, what I'm going to do is we're going to have a replete committee. I want to tell Alexander Alexander Frost and remind him that when political forces go to elections, first of all, young people go ahead. So I think he's hot, and now I think he's going to confirm that the youth committee is the most prestigious committee. I don't think that's right. Let's get to it. Dear colleagues, two years ago, you and I adopted a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to identify our young active citizens and civil youth organizations each year, which contribute significantly to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. Last year, you and I awarded this award for the first time. That's the year. The Supreme Council's rulings on the award of this award, which our committee is tasked with reviewing the submission of district councils and all-U.S. youth social organizations to take the appropriate decision on the committee and proposing it for the consideration of the Supreme Council, we have come this way with you. You have a draft decision. The specific names and names of the organizations are given in the Decision Project. I would like us to support this Order, and whenever we say that young people in our country have this future, they've always treated young people the right way. Please support the decision taken by the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u31	Replica then, at the end. Dear colleagues, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote, huh? What about the questions? Take off the vote, please. Three minutes to ask, sign up. Vladimir Yeshchenko, faction of Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u32	Fucking Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this question has already been discussed on the committee in detail. There are suggestions to support this decision and to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u33	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. May I have the floor to the People's Deputy of Klukkowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u35	Yuri Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u36	I am truly grateful to my colleague Sukhoma for his word. Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine. I have no objection to the decision, nor do I object to the award of a prize for young people. I have one thing that surprises me -- and I would like to continue to change the practice of considering this issue -- that in the area of parliamentaryism and local self-government, there was a committee on physical and sports issues that went around the PIC and the Supreme Council. For example, the Committee on Local Self - Government would like to know and evaluate those gains in the field of local self - government. So I'd like to just keep changing this practice, change the position on the award of these awards, and at least consult with the boards of profile of the Supreme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u37	We agree with that. And I would like to remind you that our committee is working very openly. And it works according to the Supreme Council's decree and regulations, including those bonuses. Well, I'd like to give you an example. When we held a round table yesterday on the Patriotic Youth Education Program, I think there were very, very few people there, including those from the profile committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u38	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u39	Alexander Bandurka, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party An honourable reporter, surely the decision should be taken and the deputies would support it, and how many nominees were there for encouragement at the prize? Did you count all of them, or did most of them stay behind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. We took into account those who are worthy to present today those criteria that are now a decree approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes. What documents are properly drawn up, my colleagues tell me. And believe me, we've been very careful about all of these questions, and we haven't had any complaints from the regions today that we've given up a distraction or anything. We have done according to the quota that is today determined by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u41	Yuri Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland’s Defenders Dear colleagues, I may be dissonant with the kind of approval I now have. Why? I definitely do not agree with this question when we talk about the development of parliamentaryism and we reward people who do not have anything to do with parliamentaryism. One. The other one. I strongly disagree with the fact that two men are represented in Zaporozhye Region, in Mikolaiowska, 1 in Kharkovsky, 2 in Kharkiv, and Odessa in Odessa District in the Lenin Communist Society in Ukraine. I don't know what that did to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government in Odessa. And that is why I will not vote in favour of this decree. I would like us to be better and more thorough in making decisions and making proposals to MPs, as well as to be subject to the law of the legislative initiative, except that all of us are involved in public organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor, for your position. I'm going to make a statement to the committee where virtually all the leaders of the political forces that are in the Supreme Council today are represented. Let us not delay today and bring personal thought to the consideration of Parliament, which has not contributed from the organizations. All registered legalized youth organizations make a significant contribution to Ukraine’s development. And that's a dot. So your desire to vote is not to vote. Well, we don't approach today either politically or left or right or others, we're talking about how people work, young people are working for our democratic Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u44	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 2005 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of local self-government parliamentaryism is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 8154]] Please vote. [[10:30:48.]] For 253 The factions, please. Communists -54, "Regions of Ukraine" – 38, National Party – 44, "Our Ukraine" – 19, Block Timoshenko – 17, SPU – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, "Forward Ukraine!" – 15, SDPU(O) – 3, "One Ukraine" – 2, "Reforms and Orders" – 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, NDP, Trudova Ukraine – 10, non-fractional – 10. A replica of Alexander Frost. The name was Oleg Petrov. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u45	I'm on Oleg Petrov's line here to say that I take my words back with regard to the prestige of the committees. Of course, if it were just a youth committee, it would be one thing, namely, sports and tourism, and it would not have been a committee, nor would it have been necessary. So I take my words back. So be it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u46	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Order on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in October 2005, Moysik Volodymir Romanovich, please. [[on the state of emergency on Ukraine's roads and urgent road safety measures]] Very briefly, dear colleagues. It's an organizational question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u47	Vladimir Moisik, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Your opinion is on a draft government day-to-day decision on the state of emergency on Ukraine's highways and urgent measures to improve road safety in Ukraine. The need to address this issue was due to the fact that the number of road traffic violations and their associated automobile accidents in Ukraine is steadily increasing, and that it is largely due to the deterioration of the traffic discipline of road users, since violators of such discipline are confident that there is no longer State control on Ukraine’s highways. Let me give you an example that in August of this year, there were almost 5,000 road traffic accidents in Ukraine that killed almost 800 people and injured more than 7,000 people. So I would ask you to support the draft decree and on Government Day we could determine how to improve the security of movement and the legislative settlement of this problem. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I thank you personally for supporting the government day on October 11th of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Let's ask questions on Government Day. Do you want it now? Go ahead. Sign up, three minutes. Please, Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Kravchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u50	Mikoli Kravchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u51	. The Union for the Protection of the Rights of Drivers. Vladimir Romanović, I don't understand this question. Do you, too, support the Chairman of the Committee that an accident depends solely on punitive measures, or do you have a slightly different view of the problem? If you want to hold parliamentary hearings only under the auspices of helping the auto-inspectorate take away the rights of our drivers and up to a hundred fines on the spot for minor offences, then they won't be easy, these parliamentary hearings. Because we're bringing people here to prove that the roads are in terrible shape, that there is no road financing, that the auto inspection was removed from the road by the President's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u52	Dear Mikola Vasilovich, you have rightly raised the problem that measures to improve the situation on Ukraine's roads cannot be taken. But I'll tell you the same thing, that the Presidential Decree on the Elimination of State Inspection had a negative impact on road safety. So on the day of the government, we should be in a complex to discuss the issues of both punitive measures and the state of the road and the legislative provision of a solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u53	Please. George Skudar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u54	I would like to share with you the idea that, in general, before the President's decision to abolish Gosinspecta on the road, we had problems, and Parliament had not heard the question. I think it would be very appropriate for Parliament not to consider this decision or to spend the day on this issue. It would be sufficient for the President of the country to admit his error, repeal the decree and restore the GIA on the roads. And by means of punitive methods, we will not solve this problem. We need to make roads, build them, put them on the road, cancel them, and then look at Parliament is not the solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. However, I do not think that the President's decree was an absolute mistake, but the severe consequences of the traffic accidents of the population relate to the adoption of the law, not to ignoring the requirements of that decree. There were completely normal things about reorganizing the department, but unfortunately this wasn't done yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u56	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u57	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. You know, my dear colleagues, I refer to everyone sitting here, including the room. Perhaps this question deserves attention, but I think it would be better if, in October at the bottom of the Government, we considered the state of preparation for housing and utilities for the winter, because we are going to winter, unfortunately, at the state level, where the body will be, where there will be gas, where there will be gas, what kind of heat carriers, all the rest of what it takes for us to be as normal as a country to enter winter. Therefore, I do not object to this. I believe that we must put emphasis on preparing our country for winter in October: housing, housing, socio-culturalism and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u58	Thank you. It's a wish. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. The committee proposes that we spend the day of the government on October 11th. But in view of our planned Government Day of 11 October on the protection of Ukraine’s cultural heritage, I talked to the committee heads, Les Stepanovich Tanyuk. He doesn't mind taking into account the acuteity of the problem that Vladimir Moysik has just reported, and each of you confirmed that in October we will be spending the day of the government with a problem of movement security, and that the question of cultural heritage protection will be transferred to December of the month. There's no objection. Then I put to the vote this proposal: October 11th to spend the Government's Day on the state of emergency on Ukraine's roads and urgent measures to improve road safety. And the government’s planned date for the preservation of history and culture is early in the month of December. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:39:51]] For 254 I'm noting that we adopted the Government's Day Order in October and amended the previous Order on Transfer of the Government's Day on Cultural Heritage. Yes, we need to include in the agenda and take a decision on the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukraine Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget. [[on grants to local budgets to ensure payment of salaries and other extracurricular expenses]] Registration number 8156. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. In order of the day. [[10:40:49]] For 217 Let them trade.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u59	Yes, distinguished national MPs, three minutes, please sign up to exchange your thoughts. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u60	Fucking Communist faction. So this refers to the salaries of teachers and other social workers, so. So this is a question that needs to be included in the agenda. But with the opportunity to speak, I appeal to all the deputies, all the radio listeners to the problems that have arisen in Cherkasa with the local self-government and its Head of the City of Volosin, which today, violating the Constitution, violating the laws of Ukraine, gives permission to build trucks in the squares and parks of our city of Chercassa. That's why I'm paying attention to you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, to this problem. I made a request yesterday, and so I am asking very much to have these facts examined in the city of Chercas on issues of self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u61	Kirilo Polishchuk, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u62	Kirilo Polishchuk, Ukrainian Christian Democratic Party. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we must certainly return to the matter. This has to do with the terrible state of the local budgets that exist, and we note especially as the deputy majors. In addition, wage increases have led to imbalances in these budgets. I suggest we go back to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u63	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u64	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I address everyone who sits in this room. Think about it, now that we have not voted with you in fact, we have prevented local budgets from meeting one of the most fundamental obligations: paying salaries to teachers, doctors, cultural workers. Therefore, I think it is absolutely right for everyone who says that we must now return to this issue. And I turn to all factions, regardless of their political orientation, their sympathy, their antipathy and everything else. Dear colleagues, we'll take you to your seats. What are we going to tell people that we don't want them to get paid for what they're doing to stop the budgets? This is insane. Therefore, based on that logic, once again I appeal to everyone without exception, we are obliged to vote with you if we are called the deputies responsible for that country. I think it is reasonable to go back to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u65	Boris Bespalij, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Paul Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u67	Paul Kachur, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I ask you to consider budget bills to take into account the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, we considered this bill. There was Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun, and we agreed that she was taking this bill off the table, taking into account that the Ministry of Finance informed us, the Minister of Finance informed us that the decision had been made that the costs, the subsidies to pay a salary of 1.2 billion dollars were directed into the region, and so the problem was solved. The other one. There were other issues of the bill that regulated regional subsidies, which have been resolved for the time being. Thus, the problem that was intended to be solved was a problem that was expected to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u69	Yes, thank you, we exchanged thoughts. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that at the meeting of the Conciliation Council, we discussed the need for consideration of this bill. In view of the government’s commission to prepare changes. The government did not make any changes, the committee did so, and government representatives agreed on the need to consider the bill. That's the first one. The other one. Please tell me, if the government is taking an order to increase the salaries of the budget and does not indicate the source, what is it? And the third, unfortunately too large or fortunately, is not the entire Supreme Council. The Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council decided to review the document. The Budget Committee can express its point of view, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine must decide. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 8156 “On amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 to grant local budgets to ensure payment of salaries and other first-rate expenses. And I'm going to remind you that we've commissioned the government to prepare the Law for financing small schools, and that's where this number sits. We should have brought something. Please vote. [[10:46:24]] For 269 Decision taken. The factions, please. The decision to return is made only by respectable colleagues, not yet. The Communists – 54, the Ukrainian People's Party – 37, the People's Party – 47, Our Ukraine – 0, Block Timoshenko – 28, SPU – 23, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Forward, Ukraine! – 20, SDPU (o) – 16, One Ukraine – 3, Reforms and Orders – 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, NDP "Trudova Ukraine" – 12, non-fractional – 13. Now we're going to turn the agenda on, then we're going to talk about it. There is a vote on the proposal to include draft law registration number 8156 in the agenda. Please vote. There's a vote coming. Vote, please. We're putting it in the agenda, please, this is the Supreme Council's right, and when you're talking about it, you're going to say your point of view. [[10:47:22]] For 276 And in general, the decision is made. I would ask the government not to block the inclusion in the agenda of those issues that are considered necessary by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am not coming or blocking the inclusion of the issue in a government meeting. It's another matter that's going to be decided. The Supreme Council needs to consider it. Moreover, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's mandate to introduce a financing bill has not been implemented, why has it not been implemented? Please, with a motive. Sign up for three minutes, and while you're writing down the minister of finance, please, the microphone. I don't want to, please, it's your business. Vladimir Petrov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u70	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I want to support you, you know, if someone comes from the parliamentarians, comes to the Cabinet of Ministers, runs around the hall on time and directs how ministers should vote, it's probably not fair. I would therefore ask the Minister of Finance to act in Parliament. Now, please give the floor to my colleague Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u71	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I think our voters should know that our Ukraine has not voted in full today for the inclusion of the bill in the agenda. And the Minister of Finance was in charge if he knew that in local budgets to date there was nothing to pay if he knew that a month and a half ahead of time, he would probably have had a village conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u72	Jaroslav Suhi, Ukraine Region Party
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u73	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not forget that this bill came about because we've seen the methods of cavalry jumping, total social demagogies, and the popularism of the government that has been postponed for today. These constant fairy tales of some seemingly high salary and high pensions have led us to completely balance and put our budgets at risk. By the way, Bill 8156 indicates the sources of the funds that are needed today. receive grants to local budgets to ensure payment of salaries and other priority expenditure. What's the cost? This includes setting our kindergartens and schools on fire and paying for the people who were so shouted out for the good words on the field. This bill needs to be considered and voted in favour of it unanimously in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u74	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u75	Alexander Bandurka, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party Dear colleagues, to whom is it questionable that the issue of grants to local budgets for low-income, small-scale schools should be accepted? Only the political ambitions of the three factions force us not to vote because it contradicts their styles. But shame will be on us in front of a school teacher if we do not adopt this law today. So I insist, and the faction supports this. And the rest of the time to hand over to my colleague Fomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u76	Katerina Fomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you as the head of the local budget subcommittee to leave this law only in an article. The amendment of article 50, part 5, which refers to an increase for all the local budgets of Ukraine and the Wage Fund, there is almost 760 million, and the financing of protected articles. Other articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u78	Yes, Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Paul Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u80	Paul Kachur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you know, even if the government has failed to do something, it cannot be a bill aimed at blackmailing the government. I'd like to make one more point, and you didn't hear it, we looked at it on the budget committee, we accepted the information that the government was directing a $1.2 billion grant to local budgets to pay wages. And there is a committee decision on this bill. At least let him know. We didn't just reject it because it doesn't have real sources of filling. I mean, there's a full argument that this bill goes against the requirements of the Budget Code and just vote because we want to order the government there -- it's wrong, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again, Your Honor, that at the meeting of the Conciliation Council, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, it was said that Bill 8156 had been drafted. There was a report by the chairman of the Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Committee on Budget, and a government representative fully agreed with the bill. So first you have to figure it out, obviously, and then you have to talk about something. There was a unanimous decision to consider this question. You've made a different decision on the budget committee, so let's discuss it in a reasoned manner during the consideration of the issue, but to block and call for no vote on the inclusion of the issue, I think it's wrong. And I don't think it's a matter for the government to agitate, calm down, please, agitating or not agitating for inclusion in the agenda. For not making a decision is another matter. [[I'm asking you to calm down.]] Or you can put order in there, get it over with. So, honourable colleagues, apart from when we agreed to the draft decree, and you all voted that we should draft and legislate, anticipate financing for a small number of schools. There's no big deal. But that decision is not being implemented. Please tell me how to proceed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why do we make decisions? To put yourself in the mood? Dear colleagues, there is now such an offer. Since we were supposed to be discussing the issue of granting the appointment of Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov of Ukraine, and at the same time the two factions are demanding a recess to hold consultations, we may do so. Now that we have identified and included this issue in the agenda, we will announce a recess at the request of two factions: the BUT faction and the One Ukraine faction. At 11.30 a.m., we will begin consideration of the question of whether the appointment of President Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov of Ukraine will be granted, and then we will return to this issue. During this time, I would ask the committee, together with the government, to hold the necessary consultations. Is that an offer? A break of up to 11 hours is announced for 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Invite the deputies to the session room, we'll continue our work. Dear colleagues, two factions. Honourable National Deputies, President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko of Ukraine, part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, participates in the work of the Government. The two factions, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the faction of the One Ukraine had a 30-minute break in accordance with the Rules. I would ask the representatives of the two factions of Andria School to report on the outcome of the consultations that took place during the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u84	Honorable National MPs, Honourable President of Ukraine, Honorable Community! I would like to point out that today's debate in Parliament, a re-examination of Mr. Yehanurov's candidacy, of course, raises enough questions, questions as to whether this is legitimate or not. I would not like to stress those statements that are both in the Rules and in the Constitution of Ukraine. I'd like to say that, at the very least, it's not moral. Because under the circumstances that occurred in a very short period of time, a very short, very short period has passed since the voting took place in this session hall. There was a statement, there was a press conference by Yulia Timoshenko, where it was emphasized that we were ready and we were still ready to create and reform a coalition government on proportionate partnership ground. But unfortunately, this situation has not been heard, and we feel that stability cannot be built in this way. I'm afraid that stability will be so powerful that we can end up at a stable cemetery of democracy if we want to at least cover our eyes or anchor them in a situation where we have to react openly and honestly. I would like all of us to understand perfectly that under any circumstances voting in this room will not determine where Ukraine will go. Ukraine was moving, moving and moving in a democratic direction. But I'm surprised by this rapid resignation of the two, after it was announced that there were plans to cooperate after all that was going on, we stood for unity and for the combination of our forces, was sent to the resignation of the two deputy security officers of the Ukraine. This happened on September 20th, and we didn't understand the reason for the resignation of these deputies. We have supported and supported the people's president, and he is supported by the people. But I really don't want the people to become the kind of environment that tries to manipulate and manipulate decisions and decisions. And I'm very afraid, and I'm very concerned with the President himself. So I stress that the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will abstain from voting for Yehanurov's candidacy for a very simple reason. Now, for a very simple reason -- because we said that together, we're ready for all moral steps together. Sadly, however, hastyness in this movement does not result or will never result in the desired results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u85	Honorable National MPs. The issue of granting approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine as Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, is under consideration. The President of Ukraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies! High-ranking national MPs! Highly esteemed members of the media! I come to this room for the second time in three days with, in fact, one request. My request is to urge this chamber to vote for stability in Ukraine. Yesterday we held a round table with the leaders of all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to every faction, every leader for the atmosphere, the tonality and, after all, the results that were achieved at the round table yesterday. Yesterday we talked about that each side should draw conclusions from what happened, each side should learn to keep the word and not cheat, each side should act in the interests of Ukraine. This morning, I accepted, signed a number of decrees that I would like, part of, to inform you. The first decree concerns some of the issues of the activities of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich, I wanted to establish that, if you are in the Hall, especially to feel this reaction, that the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine is headed by the head, the head of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine has two deputies, including one first. In this regard, the office of the Secretary of State, the two first deputies, and the four deputies of the Secretary of State will be abolished. [[Applause]] Since there have been osmosis in the hall, the second item is the abolition of the office of the first assistant to the Ukrainian President. [[Applause]] Now, the Secretariat's office is about to be updated, you're going to see really new people there, a serious reduction in the apparatus and its rationalization. The other one. I adopted a decree on amendments to the Presidential Decree of February 8, 2005, No. 208, which deals with the organization of the activities of the National Security and Defence Council. From now on, the functions of the Office of the President are as follows: - making proposals for candidates for the posts of law enforcement authorities, the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations designated by the President of Ukraine; - submission of proposals for the appointment of judges, members of the High Council of Justice and members of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine for consideration by the President of Ukraine; - acceptance of proposals for candidates for the posts of Head of Law Enforcement Authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol; - agreeing to the President's draft decrees on the assignment of high-ranking military special duties and class orders. All these questions are returned to the Secretary of the President of Ukraine. And last but not least, dear friends. According to yesterday’s discussion among the factions’ leaders, the candidate, Yuri Yehanurov, was invited to take up the session today. I decided to do it again immediately, and today I ask the hall to take into account the things we discussed yesterday, and we discussed the following important things for the state. First. I'm also addressing you as political leaders, I'm turning to social, business circles, we need to hide the ax of war, hide far under the lava, and want to forget where it is. The other one. It's the formation of a government. If the political power wants truth and stability, it must be clearly defined today in support of the formation of the government and the appointment of Yehanurov as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Third. It's a budget. I'm grateful for yesterday's decision, it was smart, it was timely, it allows us to move in the budgetary process. Third. Dear friends! We wrote in a special italic that my personal responsibility, along with the faction leaders, is to hold honest, democratic elections in 2006. In this regard, we are making a special fulfillment of this position so that no one in this country is persecuted for political reasons, so that there is a rule of law and rule of law in this country. We agreed, dear friends, that the electoral processes that will take place in April-month, March-month next year for the first time in Ukraine, I give you my word, that the administrative resources of power will not work. I give you my word, they won't work the cost of budget organizations, starting with oil, gas, communications, transportation, and so forth. I am grateful for the arrangements we reached yesterday, and I would like to turn once again to the national deputies: Show your special position, show courage, and exercise wisdom today. I'm counting on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, on Tuesday, when we discussed the submission of the President of Ukraine, we went through the whole procedure. Do we today need to repeat this procedure? VOICES FROM THE PLACE. I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u88	None. Then I beg your pardon! A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Prime Minister of Ukraine Mr. Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov is submitted to the vote. Registration number 8182. Please vote. [[11:40:31]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our decision. [[Applause]] The factions? Please. By factions: Communists – 0, "Ukraine" – 50, National Party – 45, "Our Ukraine" – 44, Block Timoshenko – 7, Socialist Party of Ukraine – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 23, "Forward, Ukraine!" – 20, SDPU (o) – 20, "One Ukraine" – 3, "Reforms and Order" – 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 15, National Movement of Ukraine – 15, NDP, "Trudova Ukraine" – 13, "Afterfractional" – 22. Dear National MPs, there's a break for us to hold consultations right now, contain emotions, passions, up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, a little less of us in the hall than on matters of everyone's interest, but nothing. Now, now. The President is still in the walls of the Supreme Council, so it's happening. Dear colleagues, we have, in principle, announced a budget issue with you. But maybe since the judges are there and they were supposed to be there at 12:30, let's take a look now, if there's no objection to the problem with the judges. And then we'll start the budget. There is no statement, your application has already been withdrawn. Those who signed. Yeah, no objection? Then we turn to the question of the appointment and release of judges. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u90	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to serve as judges in appeals courts, local courts. The head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine for appointment to the Courts of Appeal and the local courts of the Courts of Commerce. And it makes two draft decisions regarding the election of judges in accordance with articles 85, 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The first draft of the decree, it's given to you, 8176. It is recommended to select judges on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Jeróminka Alexandre Dmitrovic; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Yakovlev Yuri Viktorovich; The Eupatorian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Crotowe Ludmila Volodymyrna; the local Heisinian District Court of the Medvedic Region, Sergey Kostinović; the local Old Town District Court of Vinnice Silakova Sergio Mikolaiovich; the local Tomashpil district court of the Vinny region of Ribczynski Viktor Pavlovich; The local Guliapil District Court of Zaporozhye District - Karakai Natalia Dmitrovna; the local Yellow District Court of Zaporozhye – Muchin Anatolia Volodymirovich; the High Town District Court of the Kyiv Region - Tolkakov Ludmila Anatoliyevna; Heivoron District Court of Kirovograd Region – Kovalchuk Sergija Yakimovič; Aleksandrian City Court of Kirovgrad district of Flower Alexia Mikolaiovich; the local old-fashioned district court of Luhansk, Zajov Leonida Mikolaiovich; the October Paradise of the city of Lugansk - Verbite Vladimir Volodymyrovich; Ochtyr District Court of Suma County, Kudina.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u91	Please, Hinsburg microphone. A Warning to Whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u92	To whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u93	Ohtyrski and Sumski. (Signed) V.V. Kudin. the local town hall district court of Sum, Shelekh’s Galina Valerievna; Demchenko Irina Mikolayevna, the county's county county court; The local secretarial district court of Kharkiv County - Burlak Irina Vasilovna; The Moscow Paradise of Harkov is Gorbun's Janine Mikhailnov. and the municipal court of Chernigiv County, Kovalenko Volodymira Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u94	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Thus, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Law we have passed, we will now vote with you, we will now vote in favour of decree 8176, for deletion: the local ochtyr district court of Suma County - Kudina; the local county district court of Sum-Shelekhova; and the local municipal court of Chernigiv County - Kovalenka. There were no other warnings, were there?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u96	So, then, I'm on your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u97	Is there a warning for everyone? Wait, please. Question to whom? So to whom do I want to know? Widow, microphone, please. Widow's Microphone Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u98	How much do you know about the protests and filth Russian politicians have put on us? What is the position of the committee, the judicial bodies, these judges that we approve? Will they be guided by the new Procedural Codex? What will they be guided by in their activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u99	Gennady Josephovich, judges, respected colleagues, should be governed primarily by the applicable law, the Constitution, the rule of law. And that's how they do it. Indeed, since September 1st, a new Civil Procedure Code has been introduced, where we have written down the provisions of the Constitution. It's been played. We don't have a particular problem and there are no relevant legislative proposals to change it. So I think they should be based on the current law, the rules of the Civil Procedure Code. There are some problems that some have raised outside this room. But it is necessary to make appropriate changes to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u100	Yes, Your Honor, I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges, registration number 8176, with the exception of three judges, candidates for judges for whom there have been warnings. Please vote. [[12:40:18]] For 310 It's been decided. Thank you. Please, Kudin Andry Mikhailovich, come to the microphone. Hinzburg microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u101	I'm sorry, but let Andrew Mikhailovich take his seat. And give me two minutes of two judges, please. I apologize very much to all the judges I've had to use so much. I'll tell you what, two minutes, please. Dear National Deputies! Your Honor! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, the president of the Supreme Council’s rostrum said that there was no political persecution. I want to tell you that on my own survey, on my own example, when there was an election at Konotap City Head, the Konotap City Court, ruled by the head of the court of Jeromina -- this is the sum of experiments that I want to say today, because we are choosing judges, judges in life, whether we have the right to do this in order to protect ourselves from it. When a decision is taken by a court, information on voting on the Internet is used in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u102	Please, there's one more minute. There are two warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u103	I, Your Honor, want to testify to this because the elections are coming again if the judges today do not use the Ukrainian Law and have only their powers, today the Ministry of Justice is dealing with me, the College of Judges, the Prosecutor of Tours, 13 judges passed the Conotap for nothing. I'm sorry, in front of the judges I called family today, I'm asking you to vote for them, these are very decent people. But we need to make a decision with you, or rule. We approve of judges we cannot influence. Today it's me, I've been through it, tomorrow it could be you. So I'm asking and I'm asking the judges never to go to the higher institutions that gave you these commands. You used them, and you lost your authority. Thank you. I ask you to vote for these judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u104	Yes, dear fellows! Dear colleagues! We act, don't shout motivation, read the law. I repeat, Suhi Yaroslav, do not excite the woman. Dear colleagues! I repeat myself in accordance with the law, according to the law, when there are observations, we make observations. There was another reason. Olga Petrovna simply pointed out what each of us can talk about, because most of you, and you are being written by your voters who make judges at the local level. I think sooner or later we'll go back to changing the Constitution and choose them, and we won't be assigning them here for life and what happens then you know. But today there is such a law, let us make an exception, today there is the noun Sergey Ivanovich, let him say a minute, for he cannot bear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u105	It's a statement. Dear friends, it's motivated. I recently visited the Pecherski court and saw the terrible conditions in which our judges work. It's a barracks, not a court, it's a stable, not a court. I'm making an offer to the bankers, let them turn their banks over to the courts, and the courts will give them their barracks. And this is going to be a higher act of justice. Thank you. I'll vote for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! I am voting for the election of the judges of the local District Court of Sumin Andriy Mihajlovich and the local County District Court of Sum Shelikhov Hanna Valeryanovna. Please vote. [[12:44:46]] For 308. Decision taken. We had a comment on Kovalenk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, Priluki. Lechchenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u107	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished Vasil Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs! We're talking to you all the time about judges being qualified, we're talking about honesty, integrity and so forth. Sometimes we resent the quality of court decisions. Therefore, indeed, the judges we approve should be qualified to have experience with the judge. Kovalenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, an untimely judge of the local District Court. I'm telling you, in his work, he finished working as a judge in 1990, which is 15 years, there's no practice in the courts. Also, 1994-99 didn't work anywhere. 2000-2001 didn't work anywhere. 2001-2002-2003 as well. He was invited to the Talalai District Court. We haven't confirmed it. I don't think we need to vote for him. Then let him work in the Sumskie region, not in Chernigovsky. We need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u108	Yes, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u109	I would like to say that the judge's candidacy was passed through the Supreme Council two years ago, and the national deputy spoke and said that he had appropriate compromising materials for the judge and needed to be processed. Then the judge did not get the appropriate number of votes. For these reasons, a thorough examination was carried out, and yesterday, on the committee, we dealt fairly with all these circumstances and no moral issues, no breach of oaths, any other factors that would not allow him not to work in court. In fact, he had a few years off. Actually, he hasn't worked for more than ten years, and he's just gone through a senior training commission, where he's passed a proper knowledge exam. You may not be a judge, but you may be literate and experienced. I mean, he's been through a higher education commission. And the fact that he hadn't worked there for a couple of years, he had a situation where his father was sick, he was literally sitting there, this family situation. The committee supported the position of judge and believed that there were no issues provided for in the Judicial Act or perhaps other legislation that would not allow the office to take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u110	Yes, we heard an explanation. Dear colleagues, after this candidature or just talk. After this nomination? Oh, no? So, have a seat, please. I am voting on the proposal to elect the judge of the local District District Court of Chernigiv, Kovalenka Volodymira Mikolaiovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:48:21]] For 176 The decision is not taken. You know, according to the law we have the right to return again, let the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u111	Adam Ivanovich, this will be a violation of the law. I think so. Many say they have not been able to vote. So I'm going to ask you to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u112	Next order, please. If it was 200, we couldn't make it. Vasil Vasilovich, next on. Vasil Vasilovich, next order, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u113	Draft decision 8177. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part 1 of article 128 of the Constitution, the Committee is submitting to your consideration the candidature for election to the Kiev Court of Appeal, Daniel Tetjan Borisovna; to the local court of the local court of commerce, Ivano-Frankovsk, Mateluk Petr Jaroslavovich; the local court of the Odessa District, Gulak Galina Ivanovna; the local court of the Riven district, Kolomis Victoria; the local court of agriculture, Ternopil district, Sidoruk Alina Mikolayevna, Skripchuk Oksana Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u114	There's no objection to any of the candidates?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u115	None. And there are no complaints.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u116	And there are no complaints. So, with your permission, I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council decree on the election of judges, registration number 8177. Please vote. [[12:50:23]] For 287 Decision taken. Judges are elected. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the judges who have been elected on short notice, and we wish that they, not their colleagues, had no such comments as are heard in this room. Yeah, now we're moving on to our budget. The draft law amending the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine is being complied with. [[on grants to local budgets to ensure payment of salaries and other priority expenditure]] Registration number is 8156. Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I want you to listen carefully to the suggestions that the working group was currently working on during the break at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council. I will briefly describe the content of the law and the problems that arise with the implementation of today’s budget. This law is designed to ensure that expenditure is paid for the work of budget officials. At the adoption of the law, the changes to the State Budget Act, in March 2005, we talked about the lack of resources in local budgets to make all the necessary expenditure of about a billion 800 million. Today, we estimate that the total number of such sums is 1 billion 400 million dollars, of which 757 million is the money that has to be spent on paying the salary. The chief executive of the Ministry of Finance in its own expenses today has an amount of $1 billion,400 million, which should focus on additional payments in connection with the introduction of a single tariff network. Unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers did not provide us with information today on our demand for the distribution of these funds in the region. In addition, local self - government authorities today claim that a billion and 400 million dollars are insufficient to pay for protected articles. In addition, the bill is designed to solve the problem of paying for water supplies to the southern region of Ukraine of 20 million dollars. This is due to an increase in electricity tariffs with a deficit in electricity costs, as well as to the fact that the expenditure of the respective principal in March was reduced by 30 million dollars. In addition, some other problems have been resolved that were related to the 2005 budget. What does the proposal now sound about this law? We propose to do the following. The committee has previously decided to amend this law, but since today the Supreme Council has included it in the agenda, we propose the following. In the second paragraph of this law, replace article 9, paragraph 3, with article 9, paragraph 2, is a technical right. And delete paragraph 6 with regard to article 52, that is, article 52 does not change, but leave it with the text that is in the budget today. And in this way, to be accepted in the first reading and sent directly to the committee for processing with the Ministry of Finance in the section of each region to clarify the amount of the subsidy that needs to be channelled by the end of the year on payments that are provided for by legislation in a mandatory manner, as well as on the protection of the expenditure article. So this proposal is now being made in the hall. That is, to support this law, except for paragraph 6, i.e., the deletion of article 52 should be left in the previous edition and amended by paragraph 2 should be written instead of paragraph 3, - Article 9, paragraph 2. This is a proposal that we have to consider in the Supreme Council. The Ministry of Finance does not support this proposal. We understand that there are some problems that relate to the distribution of income, but the committee is ready to go to work on this bill, to identify specific sources for which such subsidies will be made, and thus to ensure that by the end of 2005, all expenses will be saved for delegated powers of local authorities. We don't have the right to allow you to go back to the 1996 level when you don't pay your salary. In addition, shortening today is a small number of schools, shortening of FAPs and everything else, which is now being taken as a precautionary measure in order not to allow the non-payment of wages. But we cannot agree with this proposal, we believe that the social rights and guarantees of citizens should be protected, and we today have the opportunity to make such changes, but to accept them only in the first reading, so that the committee has the opportunity to elaborate on the law in detail, not in violation of the budget balance, but in keeping this balance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! The question is yes? Please sign up. three minutes to ask. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u119	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Zibenko. Dear Ludmila Pavlovko! I don't have a question any more, but the faction's view of supporting the need to adopt this document is that, unfortunately, the situation has come up in such a way that some budgets have a week or two to fund budgetary institutions, some no longer have, and a lot of budgets that don't have enough funding by the end of this year. Moreover, there are a number of urgent issues that need to be addressed. The faction therefore insists that the matter be considered and resolved by accepting the suggestions made by the committee for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u120	Thank you. I think it's going to be good support for us, this law we're working on not allowing any amount of debt in the local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u121	Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u122	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Ludmila Pavlovno! From myself and from the territorial community of Zaporozhye, I say that this law has come to light, and the need to adopt it is due to the realities that we now have with you. But please tell us both about the transcripts and our radio audiences. That's what the phrase was about. That the problem has already been solved is that the funds are listed by the Ministry of Finance or the government for grants to local authorities in places. Is it true, or is it not? So our bill will help solve this painful problem of filling up the financial resources of wages and filling the local budget, can it be too late? Has the government solved this problem, or will we by law help it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u123	This law solves the problems of filling local budgets, the allocation of funds to be made by the Ministry of Finance, goes to a completely different goal, going to align the single tariff network, first and foremost, and thus complements the existing budget law. The only thing we've agreed on today is a position to refine the exact amount of the subsidy so that we don't give it more than we need to, and then just as much as the local budgets require today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u124	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u125	Dear Ludmila Pavlovna! Katerina Vaschuk, Volodymyr Litwina People's Party I wanted to ask: Is there a fundamental reason that there is a constant lack of funds in the local budgets, that we leave them as beggars, and that they are constantly unable to perform their duties to their communities because some of the wrong actions are laid down in the Codex Budget? After all, we need to go back face to face to community, to rural, urban, district, district budgeting, starting at the bottom. Would it not be better to make a change in our Code of Budgets, government and committee style, and never go back to correcting mistakes and patching up these holes for a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u126	Catherine Timothy, thank you for asking. I can tell you that we have warned that there is an excessive centralization of resources and there is nothing left to do with delegated powers in local self-government. We talked about it from this rostrum. In order to avoid this problem, in the budget resolution, you and I have defined the principle of how budgets should be formed – the percentage of ensuring the execution of delegated powers. Regrettably, the government in this budget failed to carry out this commission. He's funding again in the previous formula, as still, not taking into account the social standards that we're defining with you. Besides. We suggested that the ratio between the state and the locals be 45 percent. The government offered 41.2 percent, that is, it failed to carry out our commission. Thus, in the 2006 budget, we will take into account new approaches to the formation of local budgets so that we do not go back to this problem. They will be provided with resources on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u127	Igor Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u128	Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, and yet tell us, please, what sources do you want to use to pay off your debts?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u129	Dear Igor Raphaelovich, today there is an overturning of the income part of the budget, and a significant overhaul. Individual indicators that are not entirely related to macroindicators, such as the removal of state - owned incomes, have led to a recovery of almost a billion. But we've agreed with the Ministry of Finance that we're working on sources that are going to spend the money on this program. And that's the subject of the second reading. That is why we propose that the law be adopted in the first reading. There's a problem with the Budget Code. It says that only 15 percent of overreach can be considered. But it is a precaution for all conditions, except those that exist today. Because we're talking about overcoming an annual income plan that isn't, let's say, not dependent on macro indicators. It's not a value added tax, it's not a citizen's income tax -- it's a money removal, it's a capital tax, it's a capital income. But we are working together, Igor Raphaelovich, to work on sources of income.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u130	Eugene Kirilchuk. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u131	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you should not have a positive decision by the Budget Committee on this matter. And, Ludmila Pavlovna, well, you have to be honest and honest. We agreed yesterday that you're not bringing this question into the hall today, which we're going to send to two areas to see if the complaints you made really fit the reality, and we're working on, we're comparing the issues with the sources of funding, with the government, and we're putting the finals into the hall in a week. You didn’t even tell me which articles you were throwing away. You didn't say anything about the 52nd article, you didn't say that there was a very harsh violation of everything there was in the law. Such a law cannot be voted on today, even in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u132	Eugene Ivanovich, unfortunately, I don't think you were just when I reported, but I did say which articles are proposed to be thrown out of even the first reading. As for the position of the committee. The committee decided yesterday to amend the law. And we, in accordance with that decision, sent a letter to the Supreme Council. But we are a committee, and we make recommendations, and the Supreme Council makes decisions. So today, according to the decision of the Supreme Council, this law was incorporated into the order of the day. After that, we put this law into discussion. And this process is going to be discussed. Today, no one can say that there are no problems in local budgets, since local budgets borrowed 7,000 budgets. The total amount of loans in circulation is 4 billion. If anyone wants to close their eyes, let them close. As for the committee's decision, I announced it. That was the decision -- the law to work out. That's what I said in the hall today. We have decided to review the bill in the hall and we will determine what to do with it. The working group, which met during a break with the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Budgets, considers it possible to adopt this law in the first reading, to work in detail at the hands of Minfin, and to bring it up for consideration by the Supreme Council next week on the first day of the next session week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u133	Dear people's deputies, let's move on to. Time's up, please sit down. Just a minute. Have a seat, please. Microphone. Yeah. Three minutes, please, Minister of Finance. And for the discussion, dear colleagues, give me 15 minutes. The question is important. No warning? It's a deal. All of it. The Minister of Finance, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u134	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to draw your attention to the economic and legal side of the matter. I thank Igor Raphaelovich Yukhnovsky for the question about income. Because in fact, the bill that's being introduced is one way to increase budget spending without the right resources. I find it strange to hear information that income is being overturned in an article. Indeed, we have overturned income on income tax, on the value added tax. But the authors might see that, for example, we have two billion dollars on the side of our income. And the budget balance is counted in the general income line. And when I did a government report yesterday, I said we had 3.5 billion budget redefinitions. But there's 2.6 billion unreparable taxes on the value added. In addition, from this rostrum yesterday, I claimed that by the end of the year we had a pension problem of 2 billion dollars. And within this budget, we could balance that question. This is the first time I've met an economist when a bill is being introduced without any calculation. No accounts of the Ministry of Finance have been received so far. We just hear statements all the time. I would also like to inform you that on September 1st, the debt of budgets, local budgets, is 6.3 million dollars. Of these, 4 million are Kyiv region, 1.7 are Chernigivska region, 600,000 are Sumska region. This is called a number that outnumbers the problem in order. I also informed the committee yesterday, and I want to inform you. First of all, now Minfin has commissioned the Treasury to count 300 million dollars of money to implement the 57th article of the Education Act. The second line will be listed in November. These two amounts give additional income tax revenues to local budgets of 100 million dollars. I'm also informing you that a government decision on the distribution of subsidies to pay wages between regions amounting to 1 billion 276 million dollars came out yesterday. So 1.4 billion is the amount of money that we have in our budget view. I'll also remind you of yesterday's information. That the remaining funds in the local budget accounts for today amount to 4 billion dollars. And compared to the beginning of the year, they grew by 2 billion dollars. Over a billion of them are off the treasury account. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the legal side of the matter. We hope that the budget code is the Law for all, including those who accept it. Article 53
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u135	Allow the minister to finish his opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u136	Article 53 of the Budget Code provides that the budget can be adjusted in the event of a redrafting of the budget for nine months, with positive conclusions from the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors. None of the positive conclusions and none of the other ones are there. To complete, I will say, yesterday, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko asked me: Can we in this budget ensure the full payment of pensions, the problem of pensioners that arises? I gave a yes yesterday. Today, I have to clarify the answer to that question. In the case of the adoption of this Law, it is not calculated, it is not provided for resources, and pension payments to pensioners are threatened. And the Ministry of Finance notes that there are several dozen local budgets, and we have a tool to solve it -- a medium-term loan, plus the grants that we're counting. But the adoption of changes to this Law, where there is no resources, endangers the implementation of the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u137	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we've agreed to a discussion for 15 minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. The word is Olga Hinzburg, the Communist faction. Get ready for Catherine Fomenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, in my place in six months, 760 people died and 310 were born. I think that every single one of you, if you have a hometown or your own district, you know that this trend is in our society. And when you look for an answer to that question, you can also speak of the Law we are speaking of today. You see, when it was possible to talk about how the formation of the local budget that we have today, which is just like the protected articles, we can only pay a penny in cash to teachers and doctors -- and no more, we have enough money for the rest. It's not enough. You know, in the middle of the year, they take away income from a single tax, 47 percent take it out of the central budget, they add a minimum pension, a salary, what's to pay it for? On February 12, the President signed a law banning checks on businesses where the minimum wage for the Pension Fund and from which money is budgeted, 160 dollars are paid. We can't make them show 320 because we can't test them. You see, when was it possible to allow the city's development budget to form a percentage of that -- from the sale of land, from the sale of utility property? All of it. They've reselled everything. Is that what I do? I walk for two months and say, "Give me back the town of war." And the minister asks me, why do you need it? Because they're military. They're leaving. Because it's only for the sale of military property that I can put some money into the city's budget. I'm not talking about anything else. Is it possible today for the minister of honor to say that this law does not have the right to its own? I hope so. He just doesn't, he should have been ashamed to talk about it, because he has to go out to this rostrum and talk, let's do something together. If the Supreme Council is tasking, then the minister should take the lead and say "there is", move forward, solve this problem. It's not like we're going out. I'd also like to say, but, Mr. Secretary, you have spoken here from this rostrum so beautifully that these delegated forms or new mandates to the local budgets on protected articles to children single mothers, children. multi-child, and others, and others. They're not coming at the right time. You're telling the story at the right time. We're just quarterly getting some money, we're only going to get this subsidy that we have in this month per quarter. That's true. There's a way to live, to go out to people. 10 percent of the subsidies in the 51st article came to the table today. Ten percent! When is this gas to be made, and how can it be included, and how can schools be included? You don't have to talk about it, you have to shut up in the office, you have to swear, you have to answer the question. When you get out of there, close your mouth with a patch and do not take it out. And only then can something be done in this country. But you have to decide. You have been given trust today, and you need to make decisions, and we need only people in the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u139	Yes, Katerina Fomenko, faction of the People's Party, prepare for Mikola Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! I prepared and reported on this issue to the Committee on Budgets. And I want to say that before we put it into the draft law, we did a huge job with 25 areas of Ukraine. I want to say that these numbers are tested. And I would like to remind the honourable Minister of Finance that, when the budget was approved in 2005, he and the ex-Prime Minister of Ukraine were present at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets when I reported that he did not provide, even with salary, local budgets and reported a figure of one billion eight hundred million. At that time, we agreed that when amendments were made to the 2005 State Budget Act in March or September of the first numbers of September, these subsidies, targeted subsidies and these transfers would go to local budgets. Today the Ministry of Finance has forgotten about this. I want to say that we didn't wait for 12,000 700 budgets and we didn't sit quietly, they didn't have anything left, all of my second basket, I'm going to report to you officially from 75 percent of the second basket of revenue -- these are the incomes that don't count when you define between budget transfers, and they only have to go to self-governing positions for such as support to the local LHK, for road repairs, for local programs, all 75 percent went to pay their wages, for medical payments, for food, for food, and so on. Please tell us what financial self - control is available today. Dear fellows! Today, 12,000 700 representatives of the local authorities are waiting and listening to us. They are waiting for our decision. I reported to the Ukrainian City Association on Monday alone, all the city mayors were present, they unanimously supported the bill. That week, I reported to the Association of Local Regional Authorities of Ukraine, all the heads of the district village, all of them unanimously supported the decision, in what they were waiting for. They're on the verge of disaster today. They're getting laid off today, they're moving 75 to 50 percent of the rate, because they don't even have the ability to pay their wages today. And I want to tell you, just because we don't have an income fund for drugs is spent on all the local budgets of 1.8 percent of the total local budget expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, they're paying their wages today. I'm asking you very much, let's take a first reading, work out sources of revenue and everything else, because today we're waiting for the Supreme Council to respond in some way to the troubles that the local budgets have experienced today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u141	Mikola Noshchenko, factions “Go, Ukraine!” Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u142	Nightshenko Mikola, 160 district, Sumstina, Volodymira Litvina People's Block. Dear voters, my famous district is the famous city of Putivl, which is the capital of guerrilla glory. Thus, the sincere and low guise of the guerrillas and the underworlds of Ukraine. With today’s festival. Dear colleagues, today, after adopting the changes to the budget, 2005 the financial situation of rural, rural, urban, unfortunately has not improved. And that's what my voice was about. So I have to explain that I have trusted the experience, the arguments of the government team, and unfortunately, I have been deceived. I just want to give you one example around my district that. If we are to conform to the standards that are now imposed and imposed on us, we need to reduce from 24 schools, 7 out of 5 kindergartens. Of the 18 country council clubs 9. There is a need to halve the social workers of social protection agencies who serve single, incapacitated citizens. I want to go to the Ministry of Finance, and you're referring to the fact that you don't have debt statistics. I'm saying you intimidated local financial authorities into giving statistical truth. In doing so, your budget expenditure was under pressure, which is not supported by the income part. Yesterday you reported a frenzy of overturning the income section. There's an economy and a deterrence in the financing of social programs. They are medicines, textbooks, computers, and social housing. And this row can continue. So today I'm absolutely confident that the People's Party has declared that there is a non-shortening of the social sphere. And that's right at the right time. We want schools, preschools, clubs, FAPs to exist. This is the foundation of the Ukrainian village. This is the base of Ukraine. So I propose to adopt the bill proposed by the reporter, Ludmila Pavlovna, in the paper that she said on the first reading. Listen to and analyze the results of the three committees that we agreed to set up on the Budget Committee yesterday. This is the Chernigiv region, Sumska oblast. To verify the authenticity of the facts by means of the Ministry of Finance, the Committee on Budgets, and to make the right decision on the support of local budgets. That's just in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u143	Yuri Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. To prepare Paul Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u144	George Carmazin, the Party of Fatherland’s Defenders, who greets our veterans, partisans and their festivals today, and wishes them good and prosperity. I think that good and prosperity through the methods proposed by this law will not be built. I'd like to illustrate this very briefly. What are we going to do now? I'm going to blow. This is the first thesis. The other one. From the air our people will not be fed up and will not be full of cities and local self - rule. We've chosen a new prime minister today. Today we have to give him an opportunity to hear what is happening adequately in the regions. Because Timoshenko's government has been lying to us all along, she's been telling us that everything is very good when we've seen the numbers that things aren't so good. So you have to get all these numbers. One. The other one. We need to go back to the law of Ukraine, to the Budget Code, which clearly states that only in the fact that the income change of the State Budget is recognized by the official findings of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance. I'm just coming up, looking for any conclusions from the Accounting Chamber -- no. And none of you have them. And no conclusions from the Ministry of Finance, I came up, asked Pinzenik, where are the conclusions? There are no conclusions. Wait, then, Your Honor. And that we already have the official results in nine months. So let's open up the Budget Code. So what? I want to say that this law, if we vote now and not postpone its consideration, will be called a blow to the breath of the new Prime Minister. That's clear. And it's not going to talk about caring for the people, it's not going to help the people, because you don't consider that the pension fund has two billion so far, and the trend is going to go up. This is one time. The other one. I am pleased that, at the end of article 57 of the Education Act, the first tranche, 300 million dollars went into place. When the second one goes, of course, it will also be full of funding. Therefore, I believe that this law should be postponed in connection with violations of the rules of the Budget Code when introduced. This is once. The other one. Why I say put it off, because you just don't have to hide it either. It is necessary for the government to hang this sword so that the government understands that the issue of local self - government needs to be resolved so that there is no debt there, as is already being determined today. But you can't blame the government in any way, you have to understand. So let's postpone until the end of September, get conclusions, and consider this. This will be in line with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u145	Thank you. Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u146	Paul Kachur, faction of "Our Ukraine", the constituency of Victor Yushchenka. Dear friends, the consideration of today’s bill shows that we see the problem the same way, but the upcoming elections make someone run ahead of the steamboat. We've had very good practice that any bill that relates to the budget is passed by the budget committee, and the Supreme Council has constantly listened to the decisions of the budget committee. We discussed this bill in great detail yesterday. We all admit that there is a problem with local budgets. We all recognize that we need to take action to solve this problem. We just don't want to be like the members of the budget committee, so that the password is "not backed up with money," so that today we'll be like a warmongering scroll when on the one hand we're cutting and on the other side we're patching up. Let's still refer to the budget as a document that has to be balanced. And when we discussed the problems of this bill yesterday, we agreed on one thing: yes, we have to compensate the local budgets for all the miscalculations that were approved in the 2005 budget. But we have to take into account that the government gave yesterday's decision more than one and two tenths of a billion dollars to the region. I mean, we made an offer. We're putting this bill down now. Let's see how local budgets are balanced, and where imbalances are allowed, we'll make a separate decision, and by the Budget Act we'll find real sources of revenue, and we'll give real money to local budgets so that not only pay is paid, but executed, funded all those delegated powers for which local authorities are responsible. Such a decision was made virtually unanimously. I understand that this process is not going to stop now. And that's why our proposal is like that. Accept in the first reading. Go back to calculating the real costs of local budgets after the funds come from the Ministry of Finance in the region and then send targeted grants to those local budgets that will have real problems. And one more thing. It seems to me that this bill is the first time we've approached the practice where the basis of funding is information. Dear friends! Now, you deputies didn't see this table -- information from the regions. And I'm asking you very much, ask me to give you this information, and you'll look at it. And I'd like to contact the MPs in the Mikolai district. Look, there's 2.5 million dollars for the entire area, a neighborhood of Hersons, about 80 million. Please tell me you really confirm that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we took 15 speakers, five of them, and we still have two of the recorded national deputies. With your permission, one minute at a time. Please, Alla Alexandrovska. Then Basil Nadrag and then we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law must be passed as quickly as possible. Why? In all regions, housing and utility tariffs are being revised. What are tariffs? These are debts that have not been paid, have not been paid, they are placed in the cost of services, and the population is under an obligation to pay it back in fact. There are some 600 million bracelets that we send to budgetary organizations, including utilities: water, gas, heat, electricity. If we are sending these 600 million today to the regions, it will be an additional day for the publicists and thus the question of the appointment of new tariffs, I think it will be more just. Until fiscal organizations have paid off with the publicists, all this debt is naturally incurred by the publicists today as a non-payment of services. Therefore, tariffs are not being revised everywhere at the end of September of the month. I believe that we must adopt this law as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u149	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, please. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u150	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! Those who travel to regions and communicate with local authorities can confirm that local budgets today are on the verge of collapse, crisis, because there is no money and there is a catastrophic lack of it. If, during a similar period last year, the local budgets entered into their commitment amounted to 1.4 million bracelets, they are now in debt with loans of nine billion. So where are we going next? This raises the question: the financing of wages, other protected articles of local budgets, is the most necessary thing we must do today. He therefore agreed with all those who offered to accept it on first reading. The only thing that I think is necessary to add to the finalization is the financing of the transport of children in rural schools. In general, I believe that this is normal and will be normal, and the faction of the People's Party will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The name Peter Stepanovich Zybenko was mentioned. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko has the right to a replica. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u152	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, the finance minister mentioned me and my question yesterday. He sees in some way that paying off the salaries of the budgeters is a threat to pension payments. So what I'd like to say is that I'm going to support the changes to the Budget Act not only because it's going to make it possible to pay the salary to the teacher, to the cultural worker, to the doctor, but also because it's going to allow for the budget of the Pension Fund. And if the minister had a soul for a pensioner, he would not have the right to contribute to the Ukrainian State Budget project for 2006 a reduction of 2 percent to the trust funds, including one and a half percent of the budget of the Pension Fund. I'm not talking about double the deduction to the Pension Fund from currency exchange. So, dear colleagues, I think that this decision should be made in the first reading and done more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please prepare for the vote. Time's up. Dear colleagues! What? Now I want to say, there's this proposal, it's from the committee -- to adopt the bill in the first reading and assign a committee over the week to work with the government and submit it to the Supreme Council for final consideration. No objections? That is why I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget for Ukraine on grants to local budgets to ensure payment of salaries and other primary expenditure. Registration number 8156. Please vote. I've already announced the vote, so what are we going to do? Please, you have spoken, please vote. [[13:30:37]] For 292 Decision taken. The factions, please. Communist faction - 56, Ukrainian People's Party - 47, National Party - 47, Our Ukraine - 5, Block Timoshenko - 16, SPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 17, Forward, Ukraine! - 20, SDPU (o) - 17, One Ukraine - 5, Reforms and Order - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 14, National Movement of Ukraine - 1, NDP, Trudova Ukraine - 10, Postfactional - 12. Government commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! Government commission. Sorry, we don't have the right to give orders to the government. The commission. Well, can I say a word? Well, you've been performing just now. We are tasking the Committee on Budgets: to finalize the draft law within a week, together with the government, to enter into a negotiated position and to submit for final adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, please! It's being announced. Dear colleagues, for what reasons? Come on, stop it! Now, let's move on, your honors, move on to the issues, move on to the following issues. We need to make decisions on the issues that we have discussed. It's a project. Well, you've been performing, dear fellows! I've already given you extra time! A draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Ensure the rights of children in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Protection of motherhood and childhood." Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. We just need a very short time, we have a lot of questions. Lilia Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u154	Lilia Grigorovich, Health, Motherhood, and Childhood Committee Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. On June 7, we had parliamentary hearings on child rights in Ukraine, maternity and childhood protection. Because of the tense schedule we had at the end of the previous session, we were never able to vote on a draft decision that included all the proposals and recommendations that had been put forward to the draft decision that had been proposed as a result of those hearings. Of course, the protection of motherhood and childhood, the protection of children's rights, is a national strategic priority. We recommend that we continue the “Children of Ukraine” programme for 2006. We recommend the development of a new national national national programme since 2006 called the Ukrainian Child in the Ukrainian Family. We recommend that 2006 be recognized as a child-friendly year, and that most importantly, as a result of the rights that have been given, I bring this to the transcript, and we hope that the Head will be signed by that project that will carry all the changes and amendments that have been made by the MPs. So I cordially ask you to support the draft decision that we were to vote on in the last session just when the parliamentary hearings mentioned above were held.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote for a committee on adoption as a basis and for the whole of the Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Ensure children's rights in Ukraine. Protection of motherhood and childhood." Registration number 7712. Please vote. [[13:34:34]] For 316 It's been decided. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I was approached by a number of national deputies, saying that this was not enough time. So what I'd like to say is that we're going to have a plenary week from 4 to 7, so we're going to be there then, and we're going to be working on committees, in districts, sorry. Dear colleagues, you are now under consideration for the Draft Decision on Information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the Strengthening of the Fight against Drug Addiction in Ukraine. We have considered it, and we have passed it on to the second reading. Is there no warning that we will accept this document? Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u156	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I remember very well the situation with which this document was adopted when it was discussed. There were two possible evaluations of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in this direction, about the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in this direction. There was a lack of evaluation, and the assessment was unsatisfactory. I think that the actual state of affairs today in this area of activity is talking about what we can, a faction of Communists can only support an unsatisfactory assessment of this work, because today Ukraine maintains a very questionable leadership among countries to combat this terrible social evil. So the faction supports this document, this draft decision only with an estimate of the government's insufficient work on this plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Thus, the first paragraph of the draft regulation contains two definitions. The first definition. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers’ work to combat drug abuse in Ukraine is not enough. The second proposal from the Communist faction is to find it unsatisfactory. So I'm going to put it in order of arrival. May I have your attention, please? We will separately vote on this paragraph. A proposal from the committee is put to the vote. I'm reading. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers’ work to combat drug abuse in Ukraine is not enough. Please determine by vote. [[13:37:09]] For-129 The decision is not taken. The next sentence shall be put to the vote. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers’ work to combat drug abuse in Ukraine is not satisfactory. Please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote, the difference is no longer great – insufficient or unsatisfactory, but the government no longer exists. [[13:37:38]] For 199 The decision is not taken. So, dear colleagues, please weights, I'll put on. Dear colleagues, the rating vote was 199, and the previous vote was 199. No, just a minute. Your offer came in 199, the previous offer: Admitting is not enough, dialed 126, or 129. If I'm not mistaken. So I am now voting once again on the proposal that Kabmin's work in the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine should be considered unsatisfactory. Well, it'll be the right grade, vote, God willing, it won't do any good. What reasons do we have for contentment? None. But vote, please, that [[13:38:33]] For 227 I now vote on the adoption of the draft Decision as Information Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on strengthening the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine, registration number 7616. Please vote. [[13:39:02]] For 289 It's been decided. Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u158	Boris Bespalij, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Well, I'm actually in the vote. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a great request to you both from our faction and from others: when any vote is taken, yes, the factions have the right to then, according to the regulations and the MPs to take the floor for reasons of vote to explain one or another position. And we have a big request, not so often: giving us the word. And then you give the word selectively. So the communists, for example, are right on the first swing, and we're not. And I would like to use literally 20 seconds to explain our position in voting on local budgets. It was expressed very clearly and clearly by Paul Kachure. We take as a basis what we all agree on, including, and then, after the money reaches the area, count who is missing how much, and then in the second reading. And somehow you want to decide in one week, and that's why we couldn't support such a thoughtless thing. Unfortunately, you didn't give us the floor to motivate us. It's a big request: come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u159	Okay. Dear colleagues, I think the remark has the right to life. Let us see that everyone is content. Dear colleagues, the draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the measures taken by the Government of Ukraine to improve the efficiency of State ownership management in the statutory funds of privatised companies and societies created by the State. The committee worked with all the suggestions and offered to accept the document as a whole. No warning? Puts to the vote for adoption as a whole draft decree, registration number 7770. Please vote. Dear colleagues, however, have discussed all the decisions. Why don't they vote? Let's keep this normal rhythm going. [[13:41:22]] For 235 Decision taken. The draft Decree on the state of implementation of legislation on waste management in Ukraine and its ways of improving it is announced for consideration. Here we have three draft decrees. The committee proposes a draft regulation of 8135 to be adopted as a whole and 8135-1 to be rejected. And then there's probably two of them that's also going to be rejected. Is there no warning that we should put this question to the vote? I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 8135, completed, on the state of implementation of legislation in the field of waste management in Ukraine and ways of improving it. Registration number 8135. Please vote. [[13:42:27]] For 215 The decision is not taken. I'm asking the committee to work on it. The Draft Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Contemporary state and prospects for land relations in Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues! The committee processed the suggestions and comments that were and suggested that they be accepted. Is there no other reason? I am voting for the adoption of the Ukraine Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Contemporary state and outlook for land relations in Ukraine" registration number 8172. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:43:21]] For 253 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, let's go to chapter two. I'm announcing a 15-minute extension to 14.15 so that you don't relax. You are being reviewed by the Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the preparation of human resources]] [[resecond reading]] The rapporteur is Secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Vladimir Ivanovich Kafarski. Please, let's do some repairs right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the committee drafted the bill after your remarks on July 6. Supplements entered. I mean, we've taken into account all the comments that were in this room before the law, including, for example, 42 amendments to Yuri Carmazin, we've counted 19 and in part 8. The comments of the People’s Deputy Zubov and Oneichuk and others are taken into account. The law improves the work of higher education institutions. The addition to article 27 enables the State to arrange for the creation of higher education institutions and their branches. The requirements of article 28 determine the appropriate conditions for the granting of licences to higher education institutions. In this way, the law against the pseudo of education covers the way money is drawn from citizens. Editorial changes to part 1 and part 2 of article 34 provide for the participation of students and postgraduates in the work of the bodies, colleges of the higher educational institution, a council scientist, a similar standard in article 37 regarding the participation of students and postgraduates in the work of the higher college self - government body in the educational institution. The supplemented article 35 foresees the establishment of supervisory councils in all higher educational institutions to improve the work of a higher education institution, their selection is carried out by a scientific council, and the central executive body approved, to which a higher educational institution is subordinated. This is how the state-of-the-popular control of the activity of the colleges is organized. A completely changed edition of article 38, regulated the creation of appropriate conditions for student self-governance, defined their basic tasks and rights, which will certainly have a positive impact on the activation of student self-governance in higher education institutions, students become equal participants in the educational process. The changes to article 39 provide an opportunity for individuals who have the honor of being the folk artist of Ukraine, the folk artist of Ukraine, the folk architect of Ukraine and the well-deserved artist of Ukraine to fly to the post of head of the higher educational institution of cultural and artistic orientation. In the absence of a proper degree of science, but this is because of the existence of an appropriate scientific and pedagogical internship. The new part of article 54, the second part of article 55, regulates the rights and duties of listeners. and the Ph.D.'s. Complementing the first part of the 64 article with the normal conditions for school fees, or providing additional educational services, allows us to take into account both the level of inflation in the previous year and changes in the cost of municipal services. Deputies! The law reduces pedagogical stress, the normal financial activity of universities, and the structural units of higher education institutions. So I ask you to uphold this law. Phone calls, phone records.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u161	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u162	Letters that come to us from higher educational institutions also ask us to uphold this law and to adopt it in our second reading and complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! Does the Ministry support you? Please, Minister Nikolainka. Invite the national MPs, make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u164	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This law is absolutely necessary, and we would ask that we vote for it today. Hundreds of thousands of students await him. We have to fight pseudo-education today, normalize the activities of the branches. I'd like to support. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if I may, I spoke with the committee, there are a few small remarks. First. Five - year - olds in high school I would ask that we, now 900 hours, put 800 hours and then you can financially calculate it, so we're going to reduce it. And the second question. So that we don't take the right to a higher education second in the event of a national need. I know the committee agrees. And to compare the benefits to public institutions, cooperatives have 30 percent of the government's supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u165	Please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u166	On September 20, the Committee, together with the proposed deputies, discussed these issues and proposed an amendment to the third and amendment to the 48th, which is comparable to the State’s municipal and cooperative higher education institutions. As for the workload, we didn't come to the common denominator here, but there are two positions: either to leave the amendment made by the Rodionov National Deputy or to write a new one up to 800 hours of teacher workload.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u167	What kind of correction is that? The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u168	Correction 336 on page 180.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u169	336. Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u170	Dear national MPs, Rodionov, the Communist faction. The amendment reads as follows: “Maximum training, the workload of scientific and pedagogical workers defined by the higher education institution is determined by the higher education institution and cannot exceed 540 hours for professors, 640 hours for professors, 700 for teachers, for a senior teacher, 820 for a school year.” It is based on the fact that the teachers of higher education have been practically brazen to this day. To be a teacher and a scientist, that's the norm that was in the Soviet Union. And today, in all European countries, a teacher is not only a teacher, but also a teacher. Staff member. Therefore, we may agree to a transfer to a certain term. But I insist she does.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u171	Thank you. Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. Now we're going to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, we can follow the principle of “graves in heaven, or bruise in hand”. Today, more than nine hundred hours of pedagogical exercise. It's impossible to work. But today we don't have a payroll fund. This amendment is one and a half billion dollars. I'm in. But where can they be taken? That means, to make a deficit, that means to break up the work of higher education institutions. That's why I'm compromised. To write, "not more than 800 hours," once; and secondly, to assign to the Ministry of Education, to Kabmin to settle this issue and, let's say, for a period of time, to put in a solution to this problem. I'm taking care of this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, there really is a problem here, because in 800 hours, up to a thousand hours, if especially a lot of throats, it's impossible for a lecturer to stand. But if we were to actually compromise right now to write, "up to 800 hours," and then we'd be able to figure out at a level for the head of the pulpit, so there's no veto. We can vote on different options. But we have to get out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u174	Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, and if so: up to 800 hours, but we need to clearly determine the workload of professors, associate professors, in charge of the pulpit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u175	Let's give it to the institutes to do that. Well, why?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u176	So let's do it, then, if so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, we can go this way now. This amendment is 336, which was introduced by Michael Kuzmich Rodionov, and is counted by the committee. We can put it to a vote because we have different approaches here. And then we need to confirm this amendment so that we can leave it in the document. Do you agree to ask the same question? Please, Igor Raphailovich Yukhnovsky. And we'll vote. Mobilize now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Deputies! I think Michael Kuzmich Rodionov's amendment is very rational. And that's why there aren't so many professors. But a rule must be laid down for professors in charge of science. Otherwise, we will not be able to demand scientific work from them. Without the requirement to do scientific work, a higher education institution makes no sense. And so I would very much like to support Michael Kuzmich Rodionov's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Igor Raphaelovich said very wisely that very few of those professors, he meant those professors who are, in fact, professors. So we need to support them. I put to the vote Amendment 336 Igor Rafailovich and Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov and Kafarsky. I'd like to vote for it. Vote. Vote. Please vote that you don't vote. [[13:53:39]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The factions. Yes, communists - 56, “Ukraine’s Regions”, I note - 15, National Party - 38, “Our Ukraine” - 9, Block Timoshenko - 17, SPU - 1, Ukrainian People’s Party - 10, “Forward, Ukraine!” - 16, SDPU (o) - 0, “One Ukraine” - 7, “Reforms and Order” - 0, “Industry and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine” - 14, “National Movement of Ukraine” - 1, NDP, “Trudova Ukraine” - 11, “Opractical – 6. Dear colleagues, we usually don't vote when the amendment is counted. Because of our differences, we just had to confirm it so that the whole law wouldn't fly. So, please, let's go back to looking at this amendment. I'll put it to a vote. Who is it to return to the consideration of Amendment 336? Let's write from the next school year to introduce it. [[13:54:41]] For 219
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u180	There is another principle. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Vladimir Mikhailovich, may we accept the law in the second reading and make the amendment in the third.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u181	Well, that's not the way to show it. Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, you were here in this room, you supported us all the time. Dear colleagues, let's have one clear explanation. That the pedagogical year has already been scheduled. It can be installed from the following school year. So let us perhaps in the Transitional Positions that this article will take effect from the following school year and then there will be no problems, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u182	Vladimir Mikhailovich, in the law in force, well first of all, I'd like to say that I'd like to ask the deputies. Well, who thinks I want to make it worse for teachers? First. The current law has a pedagogical load of 900 hours. We suggested, we were offered to do, let's write a normal norm -- no more than 800 hours. Not more than 800 hours what Rodionov is offering. So it's going to be a palate that we can actually start next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u183	Yeah, that's it. Dear colleagues, one minute now, Boris Jakovitch, it's all right. But if we write it down clearly, it's not going to be a teacher's department for a professor who's going to have to do pedagogical exercise, and then he's going to be reprimanded for that. You see, that's the question. Whether or not we have an average hospital temperature. Please, Boris Jakovitch Nepaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u184	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think there's a perfectly, perfectly normal solution here. By the way, we didn't vote in the second half of a year, and we did the right thing, because now we've improved it, developed it, and that's proof that we don't have to hurry, and especially in terms of the next school year. So our position is that because the question is and everyone understands what the problem is, but not today, not tomorrow, my proposal not to brake, not to create problems, not to put the problem there will be a veto, there will be no, count it, adopt the law as it is, because there are many useful good norms without this amendment to vote now. And then the ministry and the committee will find the optimal solution, and we'll be able to vote, well, in a week and so on. So let's not make a sound attempt to solve a fairly complex problem that resists finance. It is not necessarily today. I propose to vote the law without amendment as we voted it and go back to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u185	Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u186	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! We're in the Chamber today, but a lot of people know what a teaching job is -- a throat job. There's even a term "head load," you know that. And you know that. That 900 hours is full of propaganda not only in the scientific contests of a man, a professor, an associate, but also in the curriculum. And you know that well, it's three or four pairs a day, it's just impossible to do it qualitatively. If we want this campaign not only to be in the economy, but also in the educational sphere, then we don't have to support this amendment. It seems to me that what goes into effect becomes effective the following school year is absolutely correct, and we can quietly vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u187	Petrov, please. X is still relevant to go to the university.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! There is a key article in this law that we are now talking about. Without this article, if not reduced, the teacher’s training burden is not orderly, all the rest of the articles are meaningless. There is no science in the university today because there is no physical time for that in the university today. And today, we have loads that no man can. Therefore, I cannot understand how this article can now be cooled down by the entire law, for which there has been a great deal of work. When Nikolaenko was sitting here in this room, he was the head of the committee, and he supported it. Why does the position from the seat change like that? What is 800 hours? What he wrote down should be voted in favour of Mikhail Kuzmić Radionov. And it's a very good offer. Let's take the "next school year, for this school year" and the whole load is already distributed, and the budget for the "next year" will already be resolved to be such a specific censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! I'm begging you, I'm begging you. Everyone who is reading the lectures has already given a talk. Let us therefore, perhaps in the order of coming, vote on this amendment: the first proposal by Michael Kuzmich Rodionov, but add that it will take effect from the following academic year. The second proposal, which was made by the Minister of Education and Science, Stanislaw Nikolayanek, is up to 800 hours. And the third proposal was unamended. I'm going to put these proposals in line for the vote. The first sentence is to support Michael Kuzmich Rodionov's amendment, to confirm the amendment by noting in the final positions that it has been introduced since the following school year. Please vote. [[14:00:49]] For-286 Correction accepted. Dear colleagues, so I'm voting, I'm voting on a second reading proposal and, as a whole, a draft Ukrainian law. Change the vote. Please, Karmazin, Anitchuk, Rudzkowski, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u190	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland, as always. There is one question, very serious, in my opinion. I agree with the fact that partly where we counted the amendments, where we did not count, but there is amendment 85 on page 62, which is of a principled nature. Our Supreme Council has always been in the way of all rights and duties being determined by law. The government has always tried to remove the word “legislature”. And all of a sudden, in the first reading, we accepted that the license for educational activities and certificates for accreditation of the specifics of higher education institutions could be revoked in accordance with the law. That was the case in the first reading. In the second, suddenly, the government is offered to comply with legislation. That means government decrees, different orders and so on. You can't let that happen. And so, if so, if my amendment is not taken into account, vote for the amendment of the government. That's what the regulation says, because in the first reading, we've adopted "according to the law."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, Yuri Carmazin's 85th amendment on page 62 makes sense. And the committee rejected her. That's why I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u192	Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's a government amendment. In the first part of article 28, paragraph 1, instead of the word “law”, we have the word “legislature”. Before you vote, Nikolainka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, since there is no separate law on licensing and accreditation, if we write "according to the law," as the previous government has suggested, we are now blocking the full work of licensing and accreditation. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers rules absolutely without conflict on licensing and accreditation. [[Yuri, one second!]] That's why there's a proposal: to support the committee and write, "according to legislation."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u194	Your Honor, I'd like to vote on the amendment of the 84th Cabinet of Ministers. It was taken into account by the committee, but it should then be confirmed in the hall at the request of a national deputy. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:04:00]] For 114 Not accepted. Mikola Oneschuk, please. And then there's Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u195	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, on July 6, when this bill was considered by Parliament in second reading, did not support it because it did not address issues related to the availability of higher education for low-income population groups. It should be borne in mind that the committee was working in this direction, and some of the important provisions of the bill have been corrected. That's the first one. Secondly, it should also be noted that the bill is improved when it comes to student self-government. And in particular, there is the possibility of creating organs, including student self-government with the status of a legal person, which, by the way, was the subject of my own personal legislative initiative of its own time and it is also included. It seems that we now have every reason to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u196	Thank you. Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u197	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The bill has been finalized and much better in quality than it was before. There are three of these moments. The Socialist Party faction will support this bill and I will vote for it. As for the 800-hour workload, we support this decision, but so it doesn't have to be populist, and if we don't have strikes and other moments next year, we have to work very productively with the Cabinet of Ministers, because we can vote, but then we can have other pains. Next question. With regard to masters and their free education, this issue needs to be voted on and supported. Second education, if necessary, also needs to be supported. So the Socialists will support this bill and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, on board. Insomnia? Please, Bespalloma's microphone. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u199	Thank you. I had a 266th amendment. This is the only amendment of mine that's been taken into account, not completely, but partially. It referred to the fact that at the time of the contest there is no substitute, that the leader is the one who claims and participates in the competition. From my point of view, that would be a logical amendment, but I would like to join in with this general view, which was expressed also by the representative of the Socialist Party and the industrialists and entrepreneurs, who say that the quality of this bill has improved considerably in six months, and that is to say that the factions, including our Ukraine, have done just that, which have not been quick to vote, but they believe that the laws must be worked out thoroughly. This, by the way, refers to both budget laws and so forth. Since the quality of this bill is good for us today, we also support it. It's a matter of hours. It's going to be, I think, think about it and analyze it. That's why I propose to vote yes, and I'm making this right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-22-m0.u200	Thank you. No more warnings? Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote as a whole as a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the preparation of human resources]] Registration number 3323. Please vote. [[14:08:09]] For 304 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we now have the next Tobacco Act. Can't we just take a look at it? No, yeah. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 4 p.m., the evening session will begin.
