ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. The 403 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, yesterday was 65 years old to the national deputy of Ukraine, our colleague, Eugene Kirilchuk. Let's welcome our colleague and sincerely wish us good health and success in our work. Dear colleagues, listen to the announcement, please. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna, from the MP's political party "Our Ukraine People's Union" and, at the same time, of Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna's presence as a member of the deputy faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform the National Deputy of Ukraine Resnik Yuri Josephovich of the composition of the People's Party. Dear National Deputies! You have a list of issues to consider today in the plenary session. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies is being announced for consideration, and there are four laws. The following is suggested: for reporters up to three minutes, answers to questions up to three minutes, reports from the committee to three minutes. Then, for 15 minutes, we'll discuss the bill. No warning? Is that what this is about? Please write down for three minutes to express your thoughts. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Victor Petrov, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Today, the most important issue that concerns people is the continued journey of the cost of living. They would have promised something, but those utilities, the prices that go up in every city -- that's the town of Vinnica and all the towns in the Vinnicki district, Donetsk, Harkov -- it eats up all the income that people were trying to count on. And the second most important problem that concerns us today is that the current policy of the authorities is finally destroying our Ukrainian village. If we do not take urgent measures to restore the village today, not just the populist talks, namely, the rebuilding of the village, we must not simply let the money into the village, but rather determine who will be the owner of the village today, so that the people, the ones who process the land, not the ones who go to the asphalt here in Kiev, will be the master. The seed is completely ruined, and the famine in Ukraine is upon us. It's a terrible danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u3	Vladimir Bronnikov. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u4	Vladimir Bronnikov, "Regionov Ukraine" faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, we are coming, we are getting involved in the 2006 budget, but we still need to consider how the 2005 budget is being implemented, because rural settlements are particularly awaiting gasification work. Schools are not heating up, kindergartens are not heating up, FAPs are not heating up, and Naftegaz does not list money for gasification. Do we have a government or not that forms the Special Budget Fund and does nothing? I therefore propose to withdraw the Government's Dei programme until the Government is accountable for the implementation of the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u5	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, we are starting to work on the budget next year, and it is probably correct that in detail the faction of the People's Party has already submitted its proposals to the Committee on Budgets. But I'd like to stop a little on the other side right now. I would like to point out that, speaking of next year's budget, we need to understand that there is a budget this year, and how it is being implemented, and in what parts, we have not heard from the executive board one time that we have a surplus of income, that we have everything great and excellent on the 2005 budget. But I have a question: what do we have left to implement this budget? There are questions here because subsidies to local budgets related to the preparation for the winter of housing, culture, education, that is, everything that has been recorded in the 2005 budget is unfortunately going with such a delay that I am afraid that this money will come to the recipient only in December.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, regarding the suggestions that have been made in your speeches. As for the situation in the country and in the agro-industrial complex. You know, we've heard information from the Cabinet of Ministers, we've taken a serious decision, and we've agreed at the Conciliation Council meeting that during the next plenary week we'll spend a few days adopting comprehensive, comprehensive, I stress, adoption of the necessary bills in order for the Supreme Council to fully fulfill its mandate on this matter. About the budget. I'd like to remind my honourable colleagues that we've been listening to information about how the budget is going to be implemented in 2005. If there is a need to listen to the 9-month budget implementation situation, please let's put the proposals in order. As for the government's activity programme, we can't cancel the government's activity programme, because for the new government, we haven't approved it for this government. I would also like to remind you that on Thursday we are going to consider Bill 8156 on amending the State Budget, which is designed to allocate to local budgets up to 700 million to pay salaries, to provide for kindergartens, schools and so on, that is to say, what the Bronnikov People's MP was talking about. Please, Melniczuk, 30 seconds. Time is running out, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u8	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party, Cherniewec district. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, since you said that Thursday would address the issue of the budget, please include Bill 7883, which provides for the purpose of restoring the right of agricultural producers to claim and tax authorities to cancel the tax debts arising from force majeure. Because we know what the situation is in the country. In addition, a bill imposing a moratorium on the dismantling of sugar factories, because now it's going very well, that's the Salkow sugar plant of the Heivoron factory in Kirovgrad County, where equipment is being dismantled at the sugar plant. Therefore, a second reading bill needs to be considered and made immediately this week, but still, a decision must be made and a moratorium imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u9	Thank you. If the committee is ready, please let us consider. Assadchev and we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm on procedure as a proposal, we have next week, as far as I know, to listen to parliamentary hearings at local self-government. It might not be bad to listen to the Ministry of Finance about local budgets. Because the situation there is catastrophic enough, and we're listening to them on our committee right now, and I think that would be unnecessary. It's like an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u11	I ask the organizers of parliamentary hearings to consider. I think it's worth it. I'm asking Viktor Andryovich Slavuta to take this into account. Dear colleagues, we now have good reason to go to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations. One Alexander Josephovich, to prepare Zubanov. I'd like to ask very briefly, distinguished colleagues, because we have a lot of work to do. Basically.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u12	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Alexander Eden, 103 constituency, faction of Ukraine. Today, there is an urgent need for a detailed settlement of the activities of shareholders in Ukraine. The existing gaps in legislation have led to inefficient governance for many, as large and not very large enterprises, contributing to the negative impact on Ukraine’s economy. The lack of legal regulation, the low level of legal awareness of the population, and the lack of development of the Ukrainian judicial system have led to numerous scandals on the ground of so - called stock wars. As a result of privatization and corporateisation, the State remains a shareholder of a large number of enterprises, keeping stock packages of various shares of Ukrainian stock companies. While the relationship between different groups of shareholders is hardly regulated in the middle of stockholder societies, this leads to disregarding the interests of the State and violating its property rights as a shareholder is rather a rule than an exception for most shareholders. At the same time, the lack of clear regulation of the distribution of powers between the bodies of the association and the active control of all groups of shareholders for the financial and economic activities of the association is often the result of the laundering of the assets of the company in favour of the management or a certain group of shareholders, which leads to the improper performance by the company of its obligations towards creditors, the destabilization of economic traffic and the economic situation as a whole. In view of the above, it is possible for shareholders to exercise their rights as owners of a company. The right to participate in the management of a stockholder’s company is one of the fundamental fundamental rights of the shareholder owner of simple shares. It can only be implemented through the organs that include shareholders and only within the competences of these bodies, provided for by legislation and internal documents of society. By participating in general meetings, the shareholder exercises his annual and managerial rights in a shareholding company. All shareholders have the right to participate in the general meetings, regardless of the number and class of shares they have, in accordance with article 41 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. In today’s conditions, when shareholders of the association number thousands and tens of thousands of shareholders, such an approach has significant flaws, including the high cost of convening congregations, the lack of vocational operations, the real possibility of blocking the holding of congregations by means of the absence of a quorum needed to recognize them as competent. The latter leads to a lack of participation in stock companies, both in turn and in secondary congregations. This, of course, has a certain interest in a group of shareholders who usually manage the company’s activities and who do not want changes in the shareholding company. At the same time, such actions are of major harm to the rest of the shareholders, including those who own the company’s controlling stocks. In accordance with Ukrainian legislation, general congregations are recognized as competent if they are represented by shareholders with a population of more than six ten votes. This figure is quite high compared to the quorum of the general congregations established in the laws of some countries. Yes, by the legislation of the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Republic of.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u13	You have to bet on the rules. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u14	The laws of the Russian Federation, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Belarus established a fifty - percent quorum. By the way, in pre-revolution Russia, for the general assembly to be recognized, the presence of shareholders owned by 20 percent of the statutory fund was enough. And to solve some of the particularly important issues, 50 percent. Modern European legislation also does not require a 60% quorum. For example, in France, general congregations are authorized by the presence of shareholders who own a population of 25 percent of the shares. The quorum, when it comes to the convening of re-general assemblies, is not at all foreseen by Ukrainian legislation, is defined in general order and is also 60 percent. Unlike Ukraine, in many foreign lands, the quorum is not recognized when it is called back into the congregation. In the Russian Federation, the quorum is declining from 50 to 30 percent and in the Republic of Kazakhstan from 50 to 40. Therefore, with a view to resolving the issue of the legislative settlement of the issue of the effective participation of shareholders in the management of stockholders, the more comprehensive protection of shareholders’ rights in Ukraine, and the draft Law, which provides for 51 percent in the regrouping of shareholders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u15	Any questions? Please sign up. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u16	Andrew Polit, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Eshchenko Vladimir Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u18	Vladimir Yeshchenko, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u19	The Communist faction. Our faction does not support this law and will not vote for it. But using my right to speak, I also refer to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, and I've already talked about this in Cherkas, which is once again taking action against the construction of fillings in Cherkasa in the park zone. I'm asking you a lot of questions, and I've asked MPs, and people are going out on the street, and they're covering the highways. Today's difficult situation in Cherkas, so I'm addressing you, raise this issue at the level of government, let the commission come out and deal with these issues. You can't have Kyiv firms building gas stations in Chercas in park zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u20	Yes, Alexander Bandurka, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u21	Dear reporter, Alexander Bandurka, faction of the Volodymyr Litvin People's Party. I read your bill carefully, but I never understood how the interests of small shareholders are protected, what they call monetary. Two percent of him, one percent, you're saying that the congregations are repeated, total, out of turn can call more than 50 percent of the votes. And if it's two or three percent. In the law, first of all, we have to take care of a small and medium-sized businessman, or a businessman, and you have absolutely no protection for a small shareholder. How can this be corrected to a second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Alexander, there will still be a statement by the deputies, it's about calling again, and it's about the possibility to conduct after-gathering congregations with a quorum of 50 plus 1 shares, it's already the first step towards minority shareholders. As for your question, make suggestions, and we will consider the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u23	Yes, Stepanov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u24	Stepanov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Josifovich, corporate war is not a novelty, it is in a civilized world that is said to be constantly doing so. Various examples can be found. But you say, in fact, here's your offer to reduce the number of shareholders present by 60 percent. It's basically working for the benefit of the people who hold the stock control package. If so, then some compensatory mechanisms must be put into law to protect interests, as the minority shareholders say. In fact, this decline is only in the hands of those who will accumulate control packages and for the interests of those who will capture them in their own, let us say, the beneficial interests of these enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u25	Thank you for the offer, Mr. Stepanov. Please make your proposals for second reading, and it is my bill that deals with the reoccupation of general congregations. If the first did not take place, the quorum can be 50 plus 1 share in repeated general meetings. Because we often see examples of shareholders who do not have a control package of shares blocking the holding of general congregations, directing the company, laundering the circulation costs, and so on. And the shareholder who owns 51 and above can't do anything about it. That's why this bill is being introduced to support the minority. Maybe we need to develop this bill yet. I'm about to thank you for your offer, which is a step in protecting minority shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u26	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat. Please. Vladimir Alexandrovich Zubanov, please go to the rostrum. Prepare Ignatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u27	Respected deputies, not a secret, that Ukraine's economy is developing unstablely, does not create conditions for medium-sized, small business, nor does it create conditions for large industrial enterprises. Today, large industrial enterprises in Ukraine are almost entirely shareholders, either open or closed. Worldwide, this is the most effective way to operate and operate large industrial enterprises. Unfortunately, these principles are not in force in our State. Why? Because the interests of small shareholders who own small stocks are not protected, well, those packages that are below the control. This leads to the loss of development, insufficient investment in production, the loss of a large industrial enterprise, the failure to use such an effective method as secondary production of shares and the increase in statutory funds. They are developed mainly by the return of the proceeds from loans to banks that need to be made. That is, there is an effective way of attracting capital around the world, a secondary issue. We don't have this because small, so-called package shareholders have no use investing in a stockholder society, buying shares from a second issue, because they now have no impact on the activities of these enterprises. And they won't have any influence in the future either. Therefore, the law provides that if small shareholders have consolidated or uniformly single-parent shares, that is to say, more than 10% of the shares, they are automatically included in the monitoring board. There is also a slight increase in the rights of members of the monitoring board, prior to the prompt participation in enterprise management, the receipt of information and so on. So this is the first such small scale in increasing the rights of small shareholders, small shareholders in equity societies, and it will also help large shareholders who now own controlling stocks to attract, not borrowing, but the means of the second issue, which are the most effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u28	Thank you. Questions, dear colleagues, please. Any questions? Is it? Sign up. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u29	Vladimir Matveyev, Communist faction. Well, as far as the law says, it protects against cheating on a secondary issue. I'll give you some simple examples. The Nikolaev clay plant, which made an annual profit of $70 million, sold for $100 million, a government stock package. At the same time, after the second issue, 26,000 small investors lost their shares at all, without funds and so on and so forth. How is this protected? First. Well, your amendments. Second. Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, former government holding stock campaign. More than half of the former State ownership has been withdrawn from the responsibility of the new shareholder by means of a secondary issue. How does this amendment protect these, well, from the rogue actions of the new owners?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u30	Thank you. According to Nikolaevsky's clay, Odessa, there was just a violation of the law. More correctly, this is the use of the shortcomings in the legislation. In due course, I had made a request to the Attorney-General's Office for a clay plant. Unfortunately, I was told that the existing legislation was imperfect and that the Russian investor was not a package that others would come and dilute the control package in Nikolayevsky, he simply used the loopholes. There's nothing to do with this law. I would like to launch a mechanism to attract additional funds from other investors, shareholders, and not those who are now single owners, have control packages. Therefore, there are simply more distant people who have taken advantage of the crackdown in our share society legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u31	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u32	Thank you. Our faction, in principle, supports popular entrepreneurship and its forms, such as small and medium-sized businesses. But we are very concerned that there is no legislation to protect the interests of small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine today, as in the state. Enough for a judge to make a decision, fly in, the forming bank closes offices, exports documents, locks accounts. Nowhere in the world can a judge be allowed to make such violent decisions without an open trial. What does your bill put in place to protect small and medium-sized businesses?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u33	Thank you. This bill, it only refers to the development of stock companies and large enterprises. And to this issue that you have raised, this bill has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u34	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Alexanderovich, your bill has very good standards, but they are an organizational plan. But your bill and predecessor also includes a reduction in the barrier to the election. stockholders, 60% by 50. In such a case, minority groups are even less protected, since they are now at least protected by the blocking of congregations. And so they will not be protected. On your committee, or on the Committee, which is a bill 7386, where there is a mechanism for protecting the minority. And it seems to me that if these bills are combined into one, we will get, in principle, a percentage can be removed as you propose and improve the structure you offer but also protect the minority. I think it needs to be solved in a complex. What's your point of view?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. I also think that we have to decide in the complex, and if we think about it, the Cabinet of Ministers has repeatedly submitted to this room the Act on Shareholder Society, which has dealt with many issues in the complex. But he had the highest number of votes in this Chamber of Deputies. And I decided that if this complex law has no future for adoption in this Supreme Council, I decided to take it one step at a time. At least to record some of the issues that are now inhibiting the development of stock companies. The main thing in this law, however, is the 10% representation of minority shareholders in the observation board. And with regard to the 50 - and - a - 50 - a - day congregation, this can be argued because there are minority small shareholders who have 10, 20 shares there, they do not suffer. It's just, well, it's a little bit of a stretch, about 40-45 percent. There are very few of these cases. I think that around the world, when the stockholder congregations are reorganized, there are about fifty and one shares, if present, the congregations, they are considered to be the ones that are taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Please sit down. Time's up. Ignashenko Vladimir Anatoliyovich, Deputy Minister of Economy. Please refer to the bill of the Cabinet of Ministers. JULlET Yooffe prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'll try to be as concise as possible. The government’s option is to reduce immediately the quorum of general congregations and shareholders to 50 percent plus one share. This is, of course, necessary to protect the interests of corporate shareholders and, above all, to protect the interests of the state. The privatization programme, which was adopted in 2000, provides for the incorporation of 50 plus one vote in state-owned packages of strategically important enterprises. And if the current quorum of the general shareholders’ congregations is preserved, the state will not be able to exercise proper management and the shareholders’ associations where it owns 50 plus one. At the same time, I have a mandate to confirm that we consider it totally acceptable and the option proposed by the People's Deputy One. So the quorum for the first sitting is 60, and for the second session it's 50 plus 1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u39	Thank you. The question is to the deputy minister? Just a minute. Please sign in. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up, please show. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u40	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymira Anatoliyovich, the point is that in 14 years the state has embalmed all that was built by the people during the years of Soviet power. And now you're trying to protect interests, corporate ones there, big shareholders. How will you, in your bill, protect the interests of the people, the small shareholders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u41	I want to say that they really need further changes in legislation to properly protect the rights of minority shareholders. And these bills have already been introduced into the hall. Sadly, they were not supported. At the same time, these changes are the first very important step in protecting the rights of shareholders. But I'll be honest. First of all, these changes are aimed at ensuring that the state is properly managed by shareholders, where it has 50 plus one percent. Such a vivid example is the Skrutnafta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u42	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u43	Please give the floor to my colleague Salmin Oleg Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u44	Oleg Salmin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u45	Thank you very much. Tell me, please, you understand to this day that you need a single law in a State that will bring together all the bills that we are currently considering with you, plus, of course, the protection of minority shareholders, small shareholders. And we would follow world practice, where the whole procedure would be laid down in one equity law. And we wouldn't do it selectively, let's say, under someone's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u46	It's absolutely the right approach. And you know, the government went with this algorithm. The Act on Shareholders was prepared. He entered the hall several times. Sadly, though, he was not supported. So we took some of these local steps to patch up the sharpest and most up - to - date holes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u47	Yuri Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, Eugene Gorgen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u49	Eugene Gorenik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u50	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of the Ukrainian Nationalists. Dear reporter! First of all, I have a point to make to Parliament's leadership. We've forgotten about an electronic system where there's only one bill and it's hard to compare. In principle, I support this approach. We have quite a lot of cases where a state can't really exercise its corporate right in these holdings. That is, how do you feel about this very norm, 50 percent, in re-congregation, to apply only in cases where the state has this control package. In other cases, I don't see the protection of the rights of state interests or of minority shareholders here. So it's a supplement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u51	From my point of view, this is going to be a violation of existing legislation, because according to the Constitution, all forms of ownership are equal. So I don't think it's economically or formally appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u52	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ioffe Yuliy Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u53	This bill does not contradict what has been said here, but it regulates completely different unregulated situations. In the event that 100 percent of the shares of a company that are entitled to be managed by a company are owned by one shareholder, a decision that relates to the competence of the general meeting of shareholders shall be taken in writing by such shareholder. It's obvious. It is also stated that in this case the positions that determine the order and timing of the preparations for the convening and holding of the general meeting of shareholders are not applicable. A member of the Board of Shareholders, the Watch Tower Society, cannot be a shareholder of the Society. The supervision of the financial and economic activities of the shareholder management is carried out by an audit commission, a college control body or an auditor, a single supervisory body. The members of the audit committee of the Society are selected from among the shareholders. In case a member of a company’s statutory fund is 100 percent, the head of the association is not chosen, and decisions relating to the competence of the congregation are made in writing by such a participant. In such a case, the order and timing of the preparations for the convening and holding of the meetings of the participants are not applied. The activities of the limited - liability company’s directorate are monitored by the audit commission, the college’s control body, or the audit by a single body of control. A member of the Society’s Audit Committee is selected from among the participants. A member of the directorate cannot be a member of the audit committee. A project where it is possible to set up a mechanism at the legislative level for the formation of legislators when it is created by one person or is made up of one person. Moreover, such changes eliminate the contradictions between the laws of the Civil and the Master Codes of Ukraine. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u54	Questions, dear fellows, are there? If you have one, write it down for three minutes. On the board, please have a name. Maria Marcus, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u55	Dear reporter, please tell us what to do to those who have believed in the associations and who have remained deceived today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u56	Well, I think it is. Rather, it was not for farming societies, but it was more likely that they believed in trust in tropical societies when pyramids were built. It was a robbery. And I think this should be treated as a robbery. I feel the same way about you. This does not apply to the standards of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u57	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u58	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of "Ukraine". With a view to further improving the bill, please give the floor to the people's deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Aleksandro Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u59	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u60	Dear Yuli Yakovlevich, I believe that the law is very important and must pursue three tasks, in my view. First. The majority of the shareholding society should be able to manage effectively. The minority that exists must effectively control. And the third, most importantly, a private shareholder should receive a dividend. These three things need to be harmonized. I believe that all the laws that have been passed so far have some shortcomings, so our view is to send all the laws to be finalized and harmonize them into one law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u61	My dear colleague, I believe that you appear to have read my bill, and it only concerns what is, as it were, a nonsensus that is not settled in the law. It is a small and medium-sized business, especially a medium-sized business where one person owns it. This time. And the inability to be. I'd like to listen to you, you asked a question and you didn't listen, colleague. And second, when the law cannot be settled and the law does not conflict with the individual rules of law, when the same person cannot be in the different authorities of the society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u62	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u63	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Please tell your respectable colleague that your bill will include not only shareholders but also other special members of the monitoring boards. That is, in fact, it may come to pass that by empowering others to represent their interests, we can get what we have today, when the State presents and the government's stock package represents people who, to say the least, use it only in their own self-interest and self-interest. If it does not, by legitimizing the situation, we will thus be able to cover the public interest in the fact that personal matters are resolved by the so-called “other persons” who are allowed to enter the watchroom instead of the shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u64	You mean if part of the property belongs to the State. I think that the State should still have its own, and how do I not understand the way you think it should be represented by the State? It is, if a State designates its representative in the form of a Government or a body thereof, it shall be a representative of the shareholders. In other cases, this is the case of shareholders to whom they trust, to whom they are entrusted to sit on the board of observation. I think you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u65	Thank you, time's up. Sit down, Julius Yakovich. From the committee of the co-report, Slobodan Alexander Viacheslavovich, please. Prepare Hirschfeld Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments at the December 9, 2003, meeting, discussed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, registration No. 1336 of 10.07.2002, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, One Alexander Josephovich. The purpose of the bill is to reduce the number of shareholders’ votes, in which the reoccupation of the general shareholders’ congregations is recognized as having the authority to make decisions. According to the National Deputies, members of the committee, the project will not contribute to the proper work of shareholders. The Committee therefore recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. Bill No. 3567. The Economic Policy Committee reviewed the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies of 30.05. In 2003, registration number 3567, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Zubanov. The purpose of the bill is to reduce the number of shareholders’ votes, in which the reoccupation of the general shareholders’ congregations is recognized as having the power to make decisions, and to grant shareholders who own more than 10 percent of the votes the right to include in the own representative’s own shareholder’s observation board. According to the National Deputies, members of the Committee, the project will not contribute to the development and stable work of shareholders, so the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. Bill No. 7129. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy reviewed the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Economic Societies, No. 7129 of 02.03.2005, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Ioffe and Dashutin, for a bill aimed at improving the procedure for conducting an expert study in the case of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and at bringing it closer to the civil procedure. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u67	Thank you. Hirschfeld Anatoly Musiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting of 16 March 2005, considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Economic Society, registration number 7115, introduced on 28.02.2005. The bill proposes to reduce the number of votes of shareholders required to recognize the general fees of the shareholder society. The Chief Expert Office considers it possible to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be rejected. The Committee was guided by the following motives. The adoption of these changes could further destabilize the economic situation in the State, effectively trigger a new phase of the stock wars, and worsen the investment climate. It strengthens the rights of shareholders with 50 per cent of the shares, does not contribute to the development of the securities market, strengthens the dominant position on the stockholders'securities market, does not protect the rights of minority shareholders, but rather strengthens the rights of shareholders with a controlling shareholding. A separate law should be adopted to take account of and harmonize all relations in equity societies, ranging from the rights of minority shareholders to their representation, ending with the need to adopt a rule on more democratic activities in economic societies. What is important to note in the context of this law. That 50 plus 1 share is a dead point, the practice of the world states that this rule may be less than 50 per cent, then we take into account the rights of minority shareholders, or as it exists today, when minority shareholders have at least the right to block the decision of the shareholders of the shareholder society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u69	Yes, thank you, you too. Dear colleagues! Please show the name of the national MPs who have been enrolled for the discussion. We agreed for 15 minutes. Yuri Carmazin has the floor to speak, to prepare for Zizka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u70	The Party of Motherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you if you thought it was much easier for you to do the work of law enforcement. Did it not seem to you that it would be much easier for the government to submit a single comprehensive bill in which to introduce a new edition of the Law on Economic Societies, where to anticipate all aspects of the protection of Ukrainian citizens, which today turned out to be small shareholders, such as this citizen, Lemkovsky Mikola Ivanovich, who has 2,000 shares in Zitomirblenergo and has not received dividends? I want to ask Mr. Piscoon: I don't know what he's doing in Strasbourg, who he represents there. Why there is no oversight of compliance with this law. Why people in Nicopola say they haven't been paid for anything yet. Why is it that at the richest factory in the Phoeropol plant, nothing is paid to the people. Maybe they don't know it at the Holding Foundation, maybe they don't know it in the government, maybe Mrs. Timoshenko didn't know? She didn't know. They were obliged to know, and they were obliged to know, Mr. Yehanurov. So, honourable ones, all these bills, they're lobbyist and only for one purpose, how to start redistributing what's there today. They are not designed to improve today and to protect the private citizen we are talking about. And let's be clear about that. One group is behind it, and another group is behind it. Let us ensure that this Law is implemented, first of all, by hearing how it is implemented by the Government, by the Henprocuratorate, who is currently in charge. And they're looking at how to reform the Attorney General's Office. And let's take a look at the opinion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that proposes to make such a record that the re-congregations are convened in the event that the general congregations are recognized as having not taken place, no later than 30 days after the date set for the holding of the general meeting that did not take place. Shareholders’ reports should be made no less than 15 days before the date of the regrouping in order to establish article 43 of the Law. And proposals for a change in the order of the day’s repeated general congregations are made not later than ten days before they are called. If we make such changes, we will provide a more rapid solution to these current issues in stockholder societies. I'm against the adoption of these laws, I'm against these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u71	Sergey Zizko. None. Vladimir Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies! The proposed draft amendments to Ukrainian laws on economic societies do not address the failures of legislation that have allowed the violations that I have referred to in my question to the Ukrainian people's representative, Zubanov Vladimir Alexandrovic. Legislation allows today, through a secondary issue, to violate the rights of minority shareholders. The failure of legislation allows the former part of public property to be held accountable today in the event of the dissolution of sales contracts, as the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant has today become a threat to the handling of cases involving Blackmorehold, a former state-owned stockholder of the Black Sea Shipbuilding Company. And there are many other examples. Exciting examples are when 26,000 small investors of the Nikolayev clay plant have been deprived of their rights as a result of the breakthrough in legislation, without any interest at all, we will say so. What protects these changes in the draft laws? They primarily protect the rights of large shareholders, corporate owners, but do not protect the interests of the State. Because there is a clear decline in the share of government property in both stock companies and the economy in Ukraine as a whole. These draft changes are not in line with the structural interests of the population, but they are in line with the interests of the Supreme Council. If two thirds of the Supreme Council are made up of some data from millionaires and 80 per cent of the population of Ukraine is poor and poor, it is clear that these changes in the law are precisely the interests of the two thirds we have discussed. Therefore, the Communist faction, supporting the poorest in supporting small shareholders, will not vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the Business Society Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u73	Jaroslav Suhi, followed by Sergey Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u74	Respectful colleagues, the need to improve at the legislative level of the organization of shareholder associations, do not call into question. Finally, the fact that some problems in this regard are also evidenced by the fact that four bills of repetitive trend have been put into consideration today. It would be optimal and ideal for colleagues to talk about this today, if all those bills were integrated, taking the most useful to deepen democratic principles in the work of agricultural societies, especially in order to improve their effectiveness. For example. First. There is no doubt that there is a general benefit to the bill of colleague Eden, but it does not remove all problems; it is not complex. The other one. It is difficult to accept or understand the logic of the second bill, whereby a shareholder who has more than 10 percent of the shares without voting in the congregations can be included in the governing bodies of the shareholders. If you were referring to the protection of minority shareholders, the previous 50 percent rule even removes the illusion of protection. The Kabminian Bill likewise has the same flaws in the first two bills. And the fourth. The proposals of colleagues Yooff and Dashutin are clearly in line with the requirements of the Code of Civil and Masters, but if it were not written or foreseen, there would be no fast and clear mechanism to implement the bill. We in the faction of the political party of the region of Ukraine have been discussing these bills for a long time today and have come to a conclusion. That the need to further improve the work of agricultural societies in the process of time and in the direction of the changes that we see in our economy certainly do not call into question. At the same time, we know that there is a bill under heading 8081 that sets out a comprehensive mechanism for the implementation of all the disadvantages that life has shown in the activities of corporate legislation, and there is also another bill under heading 738. which clearly sets out the imperative, namely the duty to protect minority shareholders, to protect shareholders' rights in general, and to improve the effectiveness of shareholders in general. So we're proposing that all four bills be rejected. I join my colleague Karmazin's observation, who said that in the summer such a bill should be introduced by Kabmin, but a bill that would not be complete but complex. These bills are to be rejected or sent to be redrafted and voted in the hall for those bills that will be put into the session hall and help solve the problem that society expects of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u75	Please, Sergey Matvienkov, follow by Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u76	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I actually like to think that we have all the good intentions of making our people's faces and all the data for the 4 bills say that in order to protect our Ukrainian people, to have access and so on, and so on. We also had little privatization for the benefit of the people, but unfortunately they took advantage of those who were behind this little privatization, who quietly placed their property on their pockets. We also had voucher privatization for the benefit of the people. So far, pensioners can't figure out where these trust companies have gone, who's gone through it, and who's going through the pockets. And until today, no one can find anyone. What's the point of this bill? You'll think about it. See how the story of events went? At first, they tried hard to break up the hall - it didn't work out. Then they started pulling, changing thresholds. Here's the next step. Let us change the thresholds, here, to hold meetings, and all of this will be for the benefit of those small shareholders that are now in existence. Sneaks in the West. That's how they live in the West. That's how they work in the West. But first. So far, we don't have a securities market. It hasn't happened yet, it hasn't formed in Ukraine. For years to come, it will not be formed for one simple reason. There is no such mechanism in the West that 90-95 per cent of property is held in the pocket of 5-7 people in Ukraine. There is no mechanism that works today in our country. And it is not clear that the key to the bill is to take possession of property. There is the Bankruptcy Act, which legally operates in the West, which brings businesses out of bankruptcy. But with the help of this law, we too have the wisdom to move property from one pocket to another, just as this mechanism does. It is clear and clear that it is a mechanism to enter ownership with 5-7 per cent and then start translating it from one pocket to another naturally. I would like to ask one of the sponsors of these bills. Dear colleagues, please answer me by sitting in the office of the Director-General of the Enterprise, with control over 60 per cent of the company's shares -- you literally gave it up and betrayed the people behind it. Now you're trying to protect me. How will you protect yourself with interest? With these 2-3 percent shares? Yeah, they'll let the team give that 3 percent as it used to be. I mean, once again, this bill does not protect anyone – it is a myth, the most natural myth. Therefore, all four bills must be removed from the urn, placed and forgotten as an abuse to our Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u77	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u78	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear colleagues, we believe that Bill 3567 could be voted on. But what my colleagues and reporters are doing here today is saying that none of the bills that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering today are responding to the questions that shareholders today have. I'd like to pause, literally, a few words for privatization in the country. Of course, many of the rostrums of Parliament were talking about how we got into a deaf corner in agriculture, who became a real owner of land, who became owner of paradises, repair companies, sugar factories and so on. At first glance, the owner of these companies should be a peasant. And really, he's got the shares, and he's got the corresponding government documents. But today, according to a colleague of Matvienkov, he said that the real owner is the one who was able to take on capital, buy businesses, buy shares at the expense of those who owned those shares. And certainly today, we have national MPs in places, in meetings, when we're with voters, one question: will the Parliament, the President, the government be able to bring this process back somehow? Clearly, this is a difficult path. It's practically impossible for me to do that today. But still, is there any way that Parliament can take a few steps to get back and my colleague Karmazin talked about the Attorney General's Office, about the prosecution's offices on the spot? Nothing like that, Your Honor, when it comes to shareholders, no one responds to their requests, no one defends the rights of shareholders. Thus, today such a situation that dividends are not paid, and in practice, the benefits of today’s owner of businesses are paid by someone who has bought at no cost from the people of Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, will be determined by whether or not to support the vote. And, in fact, today, I agree with this in person that all four bills need to be finalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u79	Valery Assadchev, please, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u80	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear friends, I don't want to go out on these bills today, because in the way they are, if we're talking about protecting small shareholders or smallpox, they're not protecting them, they're just making things worse. Because today, at least because of the blocking package, they can protect themselves, and at 50%, they won't. But now the committee has our bill, number 8386. And that's exactly what the mechanism for protecting the minority is. We're very surprised: why isn't this put into this package? I want to sound from this rostrum the mechanism of protection that we're proposing. So the stockholders' society can go towards the payoff, actually, of the growth in income, of the amount of money that the shareholders voted for. Anything else, they are obliged to give up on dividends. That is to say, 60 percent, 60 percent for development, 40 percent for dividends. 75 votes, 25 on dividends. So when you have small shareholders, you have a great understanding that if you don't pay dividends at all, you need 100 percent to vote. That's not real. In the presence of small shareholders, it is not even possible to collect them. Thus, a mechanism is provided, a guaranteed mechanism for the protection and payment of dividends. By the way, the state will win. Because where it does not have a controlling stock but has a small share, it will also be guaranteed to receive dividends from such shareholders. So we suggest that this bill, these bills that are in order today, should be rejected, and 7386, which provides a very clear mechanism for protecting small minority shareholders. And we would very much ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that this question, well, for the next plenary week, be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u81	Yes. Question completed. They're registered here, they haven't got a chance to make a statement yet, so one minute at a time, they're motivated. Please, Vladimir Cherniak. Then Igor Šurma, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u82	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! We all realize that we need a new law on stock companies. The Economic Policy Committee held a conference of MPs, officials, scientists, businessmen, drafted a bill that was harmonized. But he did not receive support in the session room. Our attempts came against us. The Supreme Council does not want to pass the new Act on Shareholders and does not want to adopt amendments to the most painful issues. A rotten situation has arisen, and this must be acknowledged. Unorthodox situation, debilitated. There are many who are interested in keeping this shaky water safe, and it could be fished. I would like to express my indignation at the conduct of the Supreme Council and point out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u83	Igor Šurma, please. You don't? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u84	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. I want to address all those who closely observe this bill. The main question that is suggested today is the determination of the quorum of the reoccupation of shareholders. Today's political moment is that any question can be passed on to the political plane and it can be brought down by society. There's only one thing behind these bills: lobbyist interests. And today, the reduction of the quorum from 60 to 50 percent is just one thing -- the truth and the lie to be able to redistribute ownership and influence one or the other. So it seems to me that the bills that are being proposed by the deputies today and the bills that are being proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers today, as a minimum, are completely out of time today, and they don't fit in with what the authorities are saying today. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u85	Mikola Porowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u86	Honorary fellow MPs, the four bills cited, attempt to answer four systemic issues of the Society Law. It's an issue of shares, especially uncontrolled emissions, and illegal depreciation of government stock packages, non-payment of dividends to investors, and the absence of an income-generating mechanism for shareholders. In my opinion, none of the bills are clear answers to these most complex questions. In particular, the question of the periodicity of the congregations was raised. It is indicated that the congregations are recognized as though they had not taken place. Who are recognized, the registrar, the owner of the control bag, and so on? And a whole series of others. Again, article 39: The order for the reduction of the statutory fund is determined by the court or the court of the household. There is no novelty in these bills. Therefore, the Commission's protocol commission: to generalise, to make systematic additions to and consider the Law on Economic Societies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u87	Mikola Onichuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mikola Onichuk, a faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs Dear colleagues! The three bills that are currently being discussed and related to changes in the threshold, namely, the quorum for the general assembly or, in particular, the limited liability company, cannot be supported today by the faction, since they are only capable of destabilizing the economic situation. We already have experience when we essentially gave back power by the laws of Ukraine and eliminated both the investment regime and the tax system and so on. It's right in that row. If the law is to be passed, it is necessary to prepare a new edition and, most importantly, not to give it any feedback, or expansion. about those societies that are being formed. With regard to Bill 7129, which was introduced by our colleague Jooffe, he can be supported by his respected colleagues, since he directly foresees the possibility of holding congregations with the participation of 100 percent of the shareholders.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of the draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations. In accordance with their arrivals, registrations and discussions, I will put the vote to the vote as a basis. You know the recommendations, the conclusions of the committee that reject Bills 1336, 3567, 7115 and 7129 as a basis. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations, registration number 1336. For - 14 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. Registration number 3567. For – 5 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. Registration number 7115. [[government]] For – 58 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies. Registration number 7129. For – 72 The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, taking into account the little support in the session room, draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies have been rejected. A draft Act on the development and application of technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures is being announced for consideration. Reporters: First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy Sejevich Ivan Bronislavovich and head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Sergei Anatoliyovich. It is suggested that the time limit for the interviewors should be three and three minutes and that the discussion should take place within 15 minutes. Is there no objection? None. Please, Isaiah. Sejevich, I'm sorry, Ivan Bronislavovich, the first deputy head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law on the development and application of standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures is proposed. The state's modern economic development requires a flexible, modern system of technical regulation capable of responding quickly and adequately to the needs and demands of the national economy, producers, consumers and trading partners in terms of competitive production and services in a globalised market. This activity is now based on the laws of Ukraine on standardization, verification of conformity and the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Standardization and Certification. The purpose and purpose of drafting the bill is to introduce national legislation in the field of technical regulation, standardisation, conformity assessments in full compliance with European standards, such as agreements on technical barriers to trade. The bill sets out the procedure for the development of standards and the application of technical regulations, defined functions of the request centre and commenting on standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures. The implementation of this act will allow Ukraine to implement the technical barriers to trade and ensure the necessary level of safety of products, processes and services that are being implemented in Ukraine’s market, creating conditions for national producers to produce competitive products because of the identity of environmental safety requirements. The creation of conditions for simplifying mutual recognition procedures is designed to assess the conformity of goods imported into Ukraine. The implementation of the bill will enable the supplier to choose, how to confirm compliance by declaring its product compliance with the legal instruments in force in Ukraine and make the conformity assessment procedure more transparent, which will contribute to the creation of a level playing field for domestic and foreign enterprises in the Ukraine market. In view of the foregoing, I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u91	Question to the first deputy head of the State Committee. Please note the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u92	Dear reporter, would you please explain how the introduction, development and application of standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures will affect not only our relationship with the European community but also with the Single Economic Area? Isn't there some underwater stone that's going to keep us in the East, but it's going to open the way for integration in the West? Today we know that we have some problems in the energy field, not on the part of Europe, but on the other hand. Please tell me, will this not be an obstacle to our relationship with Kazakhstan, Russia, Turkmenistan, and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u93	Thank you. You know, in my report, I pointed out that it's the bill, the purpose and the task of development that is to bring national legislation into the field of standardisation and to confirm compliance with European norms. And today, in this case, and not only in the West, but also in the East, this procedure of identity, confirmation of conformity, and for that reason, the bill is just going to go along with all the standards, in order to open up today for our domestic producers to work together with both the West and the East, respectively, and to receive from them a product that will meet the same requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u94	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u95	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the Ukrainian political party. Dear John Bronislavovich, you are speaking from the government. Well, your position is written down: First Deputy Head of the State Committee, but you're speaking from the government, so let me ask you a question as a member of the government as a government official. The point is that the passage of the laws of the Soviet Union, let us put it this way, is accompanied from time to time by misunderstandings and even by outbreaks of such aggression. The thing is, all the Soviet Bills have an extremely low or weak calculation of the socio-economic, political and social consequences for our state. This creates all the misunderstandings, if there were more clarity, more clarity, especially more reasoning in the explanatory notes, we wouldn't have had the opposition that takes place in the hall. That's why I'm also telling you from my colleagues in our faction a warning or a question. Please tell me whether it will contribute to the adoption or harmonization of these points with the laws of the hundred because we will smother the small and the medium.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u96	Thank you. You know, this isn't just about getting into the WTO and this bill is probably caused by the state's modern development and it's just the modern development that inspires us to adopt this bill. We've taken into account, I've already reported this bill, and we've taken into account the observations that have been made by the people's deputies, including in this bill, and the Matvienkov MP will report another bill, and in this case this argument for drafting this bill is based on the existing laws that we have today. There is only a reinforcement of the bill to bring our legislation into line with European standards in line with the requirements of technical barriers to trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u97	Time's up, please sit down. Sergey Anatolyovich Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Two Bills 7586 and 8037 are submitted for consideration. I would like to recall that Government Bill 7586 had already been tabled in the Hall on 22 June 2005 and had received no support from the deputies. Even the U.S. Chamber of Commerce considers the adoption of a government bill premature, as it has not been properly prepared, its provisions have worsened the conditions of business in Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that three bills were prepared by our committee in 2003: standardization, confirmation of conformity and accreditation of conformity assessment bodies. At that time, we spoke about the need to adopt about one hundred technical regulations in order to put order in place on this issue and to streamline the system. Regrettably, only 17 regulations have been adopted by the Government to date. Therefore, I do not understand why this proposed government bill is proposing these two, three normal bills, which are considered, which are well founded, which propose to be repealed and based on them to create a new model that is completely undecided by the bill. For the second time, when we consider our draft legislation, which has been drafted as an alternative, we have proposed that we say an alternative. Unlike the Government Bill, the draft we are considering does not repeal the existing standardization laws to confirm compliance. And it makes the changes that have arisen as a result of three years of work, i.e. the practice that has been developed, we now include in the working mechanism. The bill establishes transparent and understandable procedures for establishing mandatory business requirements for all actors and provides information to interested parties, takes into account proposals from domestic enterprises and representatives of importers. The adoption of this bill will allow for the establishment of a modern national technical regulation system that will promote economic development and exports of domestic products and protect the internal market. But most importantly, I want to tell you that in this bill we have tried to put equal conditions. That is, a sign of equality between the domestic producer and the importer. Because all the bills that we were proposing in this relationship that we were considering were directed at one point to create priority conditions for the importer. Thus, the conditions for our domestic producer have deteriorated. The adoption of this bill in the first reading would allow us to somehow get out of this situation in order to make adjustments before working on the second reading, and to speak beautifully of getting out of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u99	Questions, dear fellows, are there? You don't? Please have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. We agreed for 15 minutes. Please give the name of the national deputies who have signed up for the talk. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u100	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, it must be admitted that we are often “buckling in the legislator’s mud”. Once again, we have an example of how Parliament, when it comes to this line of legislation, “buckles”. I fully agree with what MP Matvienkov said, that there were three bills, that Bill 7586 had already been considered, unfortunately, without receiving support. The government rejects the bill, prepares its bill, which is much worse than what it was before. If it were better, it would be normal. And we are once again in a situation where we need to make decisions when we really need a law on the development and application of standards, technical regulations, conformity assessment procedures. That's all we need and we need to sort this system out. We need about a hundred technical regulations that we don't have. So this is a very important problem to solve. And we're once again facing a dilemma because it's almost impossible to maintain, because there's a problem that needs to be solved. And, at the same time, you can't support it because you're proposing a decision that's not effective. I, every time, stretch out in spaghetti, between the need to make decisions and the inability to vote. And all the time, I feel a mental discomfort and, I don't think it's just me. What a way out of this situation. I think we have reason to adopt in the first reading of Bill 8037 today, which is taking a step forward in solving this issue. It doesn't solve it, it's a palate, but it's a step in the right direction, and really, what impresses me especially is that it's a right of an internal manufacturer and an importer, equality, equality and producers of our natives, and importers, so that there's no advantage in each of them. And he's taking this bill a step in the development of standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures. I think that in the process of preparing for second reading, you can and will have to make a substantial improvement, but in order to solve the conceptual problem, you can accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u101	Thank you, too. Basil Nadrag, the People's Party faction has the right to speak. Get ready for Volodymyr Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u102	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we are talking today about the proposal for a bill that deals to some extent with SOT. But I would like to focus a little bit on the other elements, because there are a few new points in this bill that have nothing to do with joining the STO. Like what? The bill, which is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, establishes a collective deliberative body with the central executive body, i.e. with the State Standardization Council. The question is, we are creating a public organization, but there are several points on this subject. First. We have an interfractional association for consumer rights. Regrettably, the current State is philosophical in this regard. Today, there is a publication that the current State is once again, so to speak, not perceiving. It raises the question of why we create that for the powers of this board of standardization on a public scale, what function it will perform and whether it will have to do so if there is already a public organization. Next moment. We are talking to you about what we are trying to do today as part of the international development project for Ukraine's accession to the WTO. Accordingly, it is proposed that this bill be drafted with the assistance of the United States Agency for International Development. But I have a question. Why is it that we, who have talked so much about SATs lately, talk about standardization, forget it, and today we have no answer with you. The same faction of the People's Party has, for many years, made dozens of proposals to improve the system of standardization of logistics development and all that is proposed to us today by the bill. Regrettably, the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on this subject does not say anything. Moreover, we have not heard with you, but with this law, but with money in the 2005 budget. The 2006 budget is what we see in order to develop our standardization system. How a set of activities will be developed, particularly within the framework of the State budget for the current and next year. What is planned for the development of standardization as an integral part of our economy. Because otherwise, we will adopt a law with you that will, in large measure, remain an unsupported document, not based on the work that I have already mentioned and proposed to the People's Party, and in general in this room, and based on that logic, I think we have the right and to adopt the bill proposed by the deputies, given that it will be further elaborated on the second reading. Unfortunately for the government, there are big issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u103	Jaroslav Suhi, please. Oh, I'm sorry, Vladimir Yeshchenko, after him Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u104	Fucking Communist faction. Dear colleagues. Surprisingly, the insistence of the Cabinet of Ministers is being enforced by Law 7586, which we have already discussed here and practically rejected without voting for it. See, in that convening, our Committee on Industrial Policy has drafted and drafted the Standardization Act to confirm compliance. The one we suffered in this room. How many amendments there were, how many suggestions there were, and these laws were passed, and they reflect the interests of Ukraine. We passed the Act “Pro. the conformity assessment bodies." And here's the law, because you have to push here, to Ukraine, the accreditation of foreign states to push us to Ukraine like deep-frozen meat of a decade ago, sugar cheese, and so on. That's why we rejected this law. I do not understand why this law is being enacted again today. I respect the distinguished Mathvienkov, my committee colleague and Gurova, who wanted to make a difference, but, honourable national MPs, look at the conclusions of our administration -- the mass of amendments, the mass of changes, the mass of comments, but again these laws are being considered. In the law that Matvienkov and Gurov are proposing, this is 8037, it's proposed, in time, in article 5, it's already written by the Science and Experimental Authority. So listen as they recommend. We propose that the general principle of the development and application of technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures should be complemented by Article 5 as they have been done, for example with regard to the needs of developing WTO member states. So our country is just developing, and they're giving us standards to adopt them, and then they flood Ukraine with inadequacy. Therefore, these laws cannot be upheld, and the faction of Communists firmly protests against the laws that we reject through the Supreme Council. Our faction claims once again that we will not vote in favour of these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u105	Jaroslav Suhi. Mikhailo Melniczuk is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, both Bills 7586 and 8037 have been implemented with the aim of implementing earlier Ukrainian laws on standardization and confirmation of compliance with the requirements of the World Trade Organization. However, this has already been mentioned here, if the government bill aims to meet the requirements of the trade agreement, then the MP also makes it possible to achieve not only legislative provisions to prepare Ukraine for entry into WTO, but also to enhance the competitiveness of domestic production and the protection of the internal market. What is it? For the faction of Ukraine's political party, Ukraine's accession to the WTO has never been, will never be, and cannot be, a goal of its own. At the same time, we believe that there are no alternatives to joining the World Trade Organization in Ukraine, we do not see it, because Ukraine cannot be on the sidelines of globalization today. We are a great country with a powerful scientific, technical, industrial potential, the discovery of it, the implementation of it in action should serve our membership in the WTO. We need to be aware that all the so - called Soviet laws that are being tabled in this room should not be harmful to the national economy. And today we should welcome: wisdom, balance, the reasonableness of the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who temporarily revoked some of the so - called Soviet bills. To further develop them, find a clearer argument, and the main thing is to conduct a normal socio-economic, socio-political analysis when these bills are adopted. The accession of Ukraine as well as Russia to the WTO is an irreversible decision, harmonisation of Ukrainian legislation according to the requirements of the WTO and European law, ensuring in practice equal and transparent rules of the game for market entities have always been and will be in view of the practical activities of the Ukraine faction. But we're against political speculation around the WTO. The thing is, at a very expensive price, we can pay for a mistake, and no political-conjunctural reasoning will ever justify those huge losses when we join the WTO on discriminatory and unacceptable conditions for our economy. In order for us to talk on an equal footing about joining the WTO, we need to be more successful in the task of creating a competitive, high - tech economy, a stable and efficient state. I suggest we take the basis for both bills. It was more appropriate to adopt Bill 8037 as a basis for the parliamentary bill and, on its second reading, to introduce a bill to the session room that would fully reflect the interests of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u107	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u108	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Alexander Moroz, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian Association of Land and Estate Owners. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. In discussing these two bills, governmental and parliamentary, I would like to express the faction's opinion that we will and will be inclined to support the Matvienkova MP's bill. In our view, this bill provides and sets out the standards that apply to Ukraine today and that will prelude Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Of course, on the basis of that, we can accept and work on the second reading, and that is a fact. Because some standards today need to be reviewed in this Law. I'd like to stop anyway, maybe within the framework of this bill on this question: what are the standards? Are standards now standard, or are they working in Ukraine or not? Last night, I met with voters in the village of Khrestyk Zastavnivski district of Cherniewec, where people complained about the quality of drinking water. Over the course of 10 years, they've been informing all the institutions that they're ten times more than the acceptable drinking water standards that can't be consumed. And the deaf remain all the officials to this day who need to do something. And I brought that up, so let's say, one example in the Chernobyl area. Take the Hersonic, the Odessa, Zaporysk, the Mikolai district, where the water lines have been running for decades. And we're talking about standards, we're talking about going to WTO. Yes, this should be done in a reasonable manner, as my colleague Suhi spoke, as the other deputies spoke. But dear friends! We need to look at the standards and standards that Ukraine has today. I thank you for your attention and give my 30 seconds to the representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u109	John the Rabbit, one minute left for him, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u110	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! In order to protect the internal market and ensure the national product industry's exit to the external markets, it is necessary for the government to take over, after all, non-tariff methods of regulation. We're so used to protecting our market just because of customs. And you can see that this is a very simple but very inefficient mechanism. Customs regulations around the world are complemented by nontariff methods. So standards and other procedures. But today we've given up, let's face it, this area. We even got to the point where we wanted to eliminate standardization committees and a lot of other things. So today we have a challenge: if we want to really enter the world with a full set of tools to protect the internal market and get to the external markets, we need to create legislation that allows us to create standards today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u111	Give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u112	Other standards. So I propose and our faction of the Ukrainian People's Party proposes to take the Matvienkov Bill and other national MPs as a basis. And there's a warning. In the sixth article, the language of the documents. It is said that national standards may be developed, made up in English or, if necessary, in the languages of international organizations. I don't think it can be here either, because it needs to be based on the language of the state. And now, if necessary, in addition. So it's kind of a duplicate of this language of international organizations. If we put the languages of international organizations above the national language today, it is a price. What kind of market protection can we talk about? Because language, national language, is the strongest protection of any economic space. So he proposes that the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party vote for the bill. And now the things that are in the government to complement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u113	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Development and Application of Standards, Technical Rules and Conformity Assessment Procedures. Registration number 7586. A government project. I'd like to make a statement. For - 148 The decision is not taken. The draft Law on the development and application of standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures is put to the vote. Registration number 8037. I'd like to make a statement. For -208 Not accepted. Dear colleagues, let's ask the committee to work with these laws, make two of them one, and we'll look at it. The factions? Please, by the factions. Communists – 0, Ukrainian Regions – 36, National Party – 24, Our Ukraine – 35, Timoshenko Block – 27, Socialists – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 19, Forward, Ukraine! – 2, Social Democrats – 0, Reforms and Order – 14, One Ukraine – 3, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, People's Movement – 14, NDP, Labour Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 8. He's listening. Let's go to the chapter. Mathematician microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u114	Matvienko, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! We really got into a conflict. We have a normal three bills that provide a mechanism for the work of our manufacturer. The bill that the Government is proposing today to work with the committees, I believe that we have already worked out everything we can, we have done, we have drawn up this bill that we are submitting today. It can be adopted on first reading with substantial refinement so that we can put it in place. First. First of all, the manufacturer's own product is a. Second. The protection of the consumer who must consume these goods and be protected is two. And that way we can get out of this situation. That's why I'm addressing you. Let us go back to voting on this bill for the second, to adopt it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u115	Please, a representative of the government. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The committee is asking to support the Matvienkov bill in this case, and we will work together on the second reading because we will work together on these documents. We ask the National MP to support and return to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u116	Who's to go back to the 8037 vote, please make up your mind. For -262. We're back. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the first reading of the draft Law on the Development and Application of Standards, Technical Rules and Conformity Assessment Procedures, Registration No. 8037. For 262. The Law was adopted as a basis for the first reading. Let's move on to "different" issues, sorry, short-circuited. Here we have drafts of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons. We have eight bills. Please, three minutes to report. Bill number 4589. As reported by Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u117	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Region Party, representative of the National Forum of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! What is the need to amend article three of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons? It is due to the fact that this law, which entered into force since July 2003, provides for the state registration of trade unions and their acquisition of legal status only from the time of the state registration. It is pointed out that direct intervention in the activities of trade unions and in violation of the requirements of Article 16 of the Law on Trades, according to which trade unions are legalized only by reporting the organs of justice to the relevant declaration of status. And from that point on, they're gaining legal rights. This meets the requirements of Convention No. 87. I would like to remind my honourable colleagues that in 2000 the Constitutional Court had declared unconstitutional the state registration of trade unions, and it had been removed from the Trades Act. In view of the current functioning of the Law, trade unions of all levels should be given a state registration. Today, only two percent of the workers are freed. And by doing this registration, they have to fill out dozens of certificates, and more than that, every month, they have to file big reports about the misdemeanours and all that. So at the request of all the trade unions, I put in a bill that provides for the removal of this registration position. I would like to point out that it is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, I propose that part of the first article three be supplemented by the words “except for the professional groups of Ukraine for which Ukraine's legislation defines a separate order of legalization”. In part two and third, the word “including trade unions” should be deleted. Here's all the suggestions. So we're going to make the right conditions for the work of the unions. Dear colleagues, you see eight draft changes to the law. But every law makes its own. What I'm proposing is not repeated in other changes to the law, so I would like to support the proposal, which, again, I say, comes at the request of all the trade unions in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill 4389-1 registration number. Viktor Lavrentiovich reports. Please. Prepare Veretennikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! This bill is designed to eliminate conflicts arising from legislation in connection with the adoption of a law on the State registration of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs. Alexander Mikolaiovich now spoke only of professional organizations, but this problem arose in connection with the adoption of this law in a number of different organizations. These are social organizations, the unification of citizens, these are parties, these are religious organizations, different charities and so on and so forth. I know that we need to solve the problem in a complex way, not just in the case of professional organizations. As for all these organizations, who feel so uncomfortable about the adoption of this law. Now, my colleague Klukkowski told me that even two copies of the original registration are required when registering public organizations. a certificate of registration of this organization, where the only register is. It should be borne in mind that there are differences in this law in general with the general principles of law. When it comes to what is a special law, the general law does not work. And the special laws here, I'm just going to give you a name for the different organizations that we're talking about, see: the unification of citizens. The Special Law establishes a special order for the registration of citizens’ union; professional associations, their rights and guarantees of activity; charity and charitable organizations; political parties; trade and industrial chambers of Ukraine; and professional ones. creative workers and creative associations; freedom of conscience and religious organizations; lawyers. We could say banks and banking. Banks are also registered in a special regime. And here's the thing: they don't have to go through the special order -- they have to go through the registration twice. It is therefore proposed that data from the State Register, the legalization of citizens’ associations, professional associations, charitable organizations, parties, creative associations or their territories, legal associations, trade unions and their associations, chambers of commerce, religious organizations, and data on the formation of public authorities and local self - government bodies be included in the single State Register in order and in the schedule set up by a specially authorized authority on matters of State registration in agreement with the legalizing body. In other words, registration goes in a special order, and then this data is transferred to a single register, and you don't have to register twice. I have to tell you that there has been a call to the national deputies of Ukraine from the leaders of all the churches of Ukraine. I'm just a name, well, members of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches, religious organizations -- that's Metropolitan Vladimir, that's Philaret, that's Commandant, that's it, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u120	Thank you. Victor Lavrentiovich, but let's probably write this down better: "according to the laws of the specials," and not pass it on to the instructions of the Derzcompetitives. We'll do it for them by law, you know what happens. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u121	That's exactly what I'm talking about. The registration goes in the same order as it did, only the registration data are passed on to the general register. Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u122	Because they set their rules outside the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u123	These aren't the entrepreneurial organizations I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u124	Please. Thank you. National MP, 6321 registration number, Vretennikov Viktor Aleksandrovich I can't see. Then the next bill, 6336, Dawn Valentin Mihajlovich, please. He's got the Hubby Bogdan behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the need for the draft law to be adopted is due to the contradiction between the provisions of the Special Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, the Constitution of Ukraine and civil and economic law. First. The existing institution of State registrars, acting under the law as the State executive, is also appointed and released at the same time from the position of the city head or the head of the district public administration to which he is subject. The second contradiction. Part 3, articles 143 of the Ukrainian Constitution clearly state that the granting by law, by local authority of certain powers of the executive authority of due funding of these powers in full through the State budget or by placing certain State taxes on the local budget. In fact, the State budget does not contain such costs, and the Ukrainian Tax System Act does not specify the relevant delegated State taxes or charges. Third contradiction, which is regulated by the bill I have introduced. Under article 81 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, legal persons may be two types of private law and public law. The provisions of article 3, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the amended law are clearly contrary to the laws governing the State registration of certain groups of public entities, as my colleagues have said. And finally the fourth. Uncertainty of the status of the State registrar and the absence of the necessary procedural rules establishing the right of an officer and of being a plaintiff and defendant in the courts of Ukraine. An existing law has also failed to establish a real mechanism for bringing actors to justice for failing to comply with the law. The changes I have made and the bills I have submitted resolve these and a number of other contradictions and do not require additional budget costs. It seems logical that the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship should, on the basis of all the proposed legislation on the subject, establish a common document and propose it as a collective work for adoption by Parliament. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Bill 7006 of the Houbsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich. You don't? The next Dubický Viacheslav Volodymyrovich bill. Next bill, Felman Alexander Borisovich. And the following Bill 7284 Boki Ivan Sidorovich, please. Prepare Lapinius from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, our Bill No.7284, aimed at protecting the state's corporate rights in enterprises with mixed forms of ownership, including, among agricultural enterprises of the agro-industry complex, enterprises of the Ukragroprombud Corporation, the Ukrzesilzhiódnica Association and others, which have a public share. During the organization of such enterprises. As is known, for the beginning of property reform in Ukraine, there was a wide network of inter-economic enterprises that, in their time, were created with agriculture, through voluntary pooling of some of their financial and material resources and, in part, government funds. Those involved in such cooperation remained legally independent enterprises, and the inter-economic enterprises they created were their common property. The right of ownership of non-state property in inter-economic enterprises, in accordance with current legislation, belongs to the founders and other enterprises that made the primary contributions to their creation. And as for the state share of property in the property of inter-household enterprises, there are problems with that kind of content. The definition of the State share of ownership and other founders in the statutory funds of inter-economic enterprises is only made in the pre-privatization process, in line with the provision of order prior to the privatization preparation of enterprises in statutory funds with a state share. The legislation does not allow the privatization authorities to obtain information on State contributions to the statutory fund of inter-economic enterprises in respect of which such training is carried out in a compulsory manner and the judicial procedure is not always effective. Under these circumstances, business leaders are able to reform without taking into account the interests of the State and all other founders. So we suggest that we make this change to the 24th article, especially part seven. In the event of the registration of a legal person who is created as a result of the reorganization of enterprises with mixed ownership, including inter-economic enterprises of the APC, in addition to the documents provided for in Part 1 of this article, a copy of an inventory commission act identifying a share of the State in the property of an enterprise created by non-State operators on the absence and, if available, on the size of the State in the statutory fund of the listed enterprise. Thus, the adoption of the bill will enable privatization authorities to determine the availability and size of the state share in the property of inter-economic enterprises and ensure the protection of the State's property rights while reforming enterprises with mixed ownership. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us consult. There's a break. Will we finish or after the break? After the break. Okay. Then there's a 30-minute break to 12:30. After a break from the committee, a colleague of Leipzig will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u129	Yes, the chairman showed up, a reporter. Oh, no, sorry, there is. So do I. We're continuing the meeting. Vice-President of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, please. You have five minutes to report all the laws to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, two years have passed since the adoption of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. The practice of applying this law has shown many positive points, at least a certain standardization of registration procedures has taken place and much has been achieved on the way to speeding up the procedure. But I also showed many of the problems that have arisen. And these problems certainly need to be solved not only in an organizational but also in a legislative order. It should be noted that these problems are primarily related to the legislative commissions. It is therefore quite surprising that such a number of bills, which are aimed at resolving the legislative colleges and the contradiction between the provisions of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs and other social laws that have been in force today, have defined the characteristics of the state registration of other different forms of legal persons. The committee carefully examined and studied all the bills that had been tabled. By absolutely recognizing the meaning of a number of bills submitted by the people's deputies, we point out that Bill 7250 is the most complex bill, also a parliamentary bill that actually proposes to amend 24 draft laws. And this is the widest base. Although the Science and Export Authority is pointing out that eight laws, however, have not yet been covered by this bill. I mean, for the second reading, of course, it needs work. There are certainly some coalitions between the proposed rules of this bill and the proposed legislation, such as the Musiyaki colleague, which I personally absolutely share about the characteristics of the state registration of social associations of trade unions, parties and so forth. So the committee's proposal was to build on Bill 7250 as one that would cover most comprehensively all the necessary legislative changes and take the basis, and then create a working group on the committee, work on a second reading, taking into account all the proposals made by national MPs in individual bills. We think this is the most technological way. This does not mean that it does not reject the right proposals of MPs regarding the characteristics of the state registration of certain forms of legal persons, but at the same time enables us to approach this issue in a comprehensive manner, to make changes to all the laws that are necessary, and there, indeed, a whole range of special laws that are still still in place, even in this Bill, 7250 are not yet covered. So it seems to us that such a technological approach will enable and support the initiative of the national MPs and not lose the most important, that is to really make a base that will not contradict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, shall we discuss it? We will. Yes. Two in, two in. Please, Michael Volintz. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, radio listeners, according to the International Labour Organization Convention 87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Rights of the Organization, and article 16 of the Professional Associations Act, trade unions are only required to legalize by means of a communication to conform to the stated status. Moreover, there has been a decision of the Constitutional Court since 2000 on the recognition of unconstitutional laws relating to the registration of trade unions. However, the violation of Convention No. 87 and the Employment Act of Ukraine, article 80 of the Civil Code, provides that the legal person is an organization created and registered in accordance with the law. In addition, similar standards are contained in the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. It is not taken into account that the activities of the trade unions are regulated by a special law and that, in accordance with the Law on Associations of Ukraine, the association acquires the rights of a legal person from the time the statute is approved. The situation is that through the State registration mechanism, the state has been trying to prevent trade unions as employees. As the heads of the Confederation of Free Trades, every day there are a lot of appeals about trade union rights violations and it's worth noting that most of the infringements of trade union rights occur during their registration. Today, you have eight drafts on state registration. Four of them are the number 4389, 4389-1, 6336 and 7250. And only one 4,389 aimed at improving the existing situation. None of the bills proposed to date to amend the Law on State Registration, except Bill 4389 of the People's Deputy Stoyan, is intended to harmonize the law with international law and the Constitutional Court's decision. Some of them, for example, Bill 7250, even deepen the registration of trade unions and severely violate the Constitution of Ukraine and the norms of international conventions. On December 25, 2003, I introduced the draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts on the settlement of the issue of the registration of professional associations, number 4566. It does contain a clear mechanism to resolve the problem of the registration of trade unions, but unfortunately it is not being considered. Therefore, I ask you to support in the first reading the bill 4389 introduced by People’s Deputies Stoyan and, in addition to the second reading, to unify these two bills. So 4389 and I put in 4566 to solve the problem of the state registration of trade unions, as well as to reject the bill: 7250, 4389-1, 6336 as unacceptable. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance and necessity of supporting the bill of National MP Feldman.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u133	Thank you. Basil Nadrag. Alexander Masenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u134	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we are today considering 8 bills relating to article No.3 of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. On this basis, I would like to draw your attention to Bill 4389-1, which our colleague Musiyak, who is supposed to remind you to listen carefully, has amended a number of laws. In particular, on the integration of citizens, on trade unions, on political parties, on charity and charities, on trade unions, on trade and trade unions, on lawyers, on the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, on freedom of conscience and on religious organizations. That is, on a large scale, the bill proposed by our colleague Musiak concerns the entire range of social organizations. And I must tell you, dear colleagues, one more thing. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvina Vladimir Mihajlović, leaders of the MP factions and groups, all of us, the people's deputies, have been addressed. You probably know him from the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations. This is like one stroke of how important the bill is and what it assumes. And I want to tell you that in this situation, among its signatures are, I stress, and the signatories are members of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations, religions, virtually all the religious organizations we now have in Ukraine. These religions, I don't want to call them now, so that they don't bring any more, maybe even some emotional tension. But the problem is, in other matters, these religions very often don't perceive each other and they boil their emotions, and there are problems that we know about as well. But the point of the problem is that they are all united in that the bill should take place. Because it will give me an opportunity, I would like to read the last two lines of their treatment. “We ask you, namely, to discuss the leadership of the Supreme Council, factions and simply MPs, to support Bill 4389-1, the author of Musiak, who will allow a person to exercise freely the right to freedom of conscience, religion and association. Also create the necessary conditions for building civil society in Ukraine. On that basis, I appeal to all, without exception, regardless of any political sympathy and antipathies, factions and fractional supplies and any parliamentary interests and perhaps even ambitions. Let's support Bill 4389-1 because it's normal. If there are any comments, it will always be possible to complete the second reading. And in the first, it will be the right thing to do, and society will understand us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Alexander Masenko, a faction of Communists, prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u136	Honorable national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, voters. In my opinion, all these bills that are being tabled today for consideration by the Supreme Council are aimed at simplifying the registration procedure of both legal and natural persons entrepreneurs. But I'm surprised who's interested in which side, they say, is dragging the blanket on to themselves, which is, let's simplify for that category, or let's simplify for that category. And in my opinion, we're one country and we have to be the same approach for everyone. And for that reason, I'm most interested not in the unions, not in some religious organizations, but I'm interested in pure entrepreneurs. I just want to give you a little bit of perseverance from one official state document, and you listen carefully, and who can analyze what this is all about? "We bring to your knowledge that on account of the Grebinkovsky Department -- this is the Poltava region -- there's a private enterprise called Victoria. According to the accounts, the legal address of the company is M.Grebinka, the Pionersky Strait. “ It's still called a nickname. But this one who is registered in Kiev, the prospect of Victory 127, sq. 137. The founder is like that, and so, Mr. Grebinka, over. That's the way it is. The statutory fund at the time of creation of the enterprise is $100. Think about it! In fact, there is no activity in the territory of the Gribitkow region. But according to the figures, 9 million and 216.3 thousand dollars last year. And then 20.9 is paid to the budget. In six months of this year, this enterprise registered in the Poltav region, which is completely out of business, is 977 million 752.3 thousand dollars. And only 84.2 thousand dollars were paid. Imagine, this is our money, this is what we always say we don't have enough to solve social problems. I've talked about this a number of times before, and let's say that Xenia Leapina and I are talking to Kabmin. I'd like to ask that we're going to fix it, let's make it open so that we know where the Dusty Enterprises, where the Yulia Tymoshenko Enterprises. Where I am, I'm asked in Poltavska whether it's true that socialists have businesses. And I can't say frankly, because we're all closed, we're all not aware, we're going underground, and as you can see, what crazy amounts are not paying taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u137	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u138	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. In our view, of all the bills that we are considering today, it may be possible to unify them and make one such thing so that the hall can be consolidated. But what it means is that as many drafters as there are many drafters, we are considering that it is possible to support Bill 7260 of Feldman and 7284 of Frost and Semenyuk. The bill proposes to establish that, for the national registration of legal persons created by the reorganization of mixed-proprietary enterprises, in the statutory fund, whose state share is additionally required to add to other documents an inventory commission act on the size of this state share. Thus, according to the authors of this bill, the aim is to control the state's share in organizing inter-economic enterprises. Similarly today, I would like to say about Bill 7265, which could also be used as a basis for combining Bill 7284. But in general, as different as the opinions of the national MPs are, I think we're going to have to consolidate our vote today in order to actually take some step in this direction. What about respectable friends, simplified registration systems, others. This is not the concern of entrepreneurs today. In the numerous meetings that I held in the Cherniewec region, in Novoselické, Hatinski, Zastavvinsky, Viznické region of entrepreneurs today, another concern is that after the simplified registration procedure comes tax pressure, which unfortunately we parliamentarians have never been able to overcome. And if in this session we can't make this pressure go much lower, there's certainly not enough entrepreneurs to want to do entrepreneurial activity, at least that there's such tax pressure as we do in Ukraine. We said we gave up our business hand, we gave up our hand to the average entrepreneur, and this is the hand the entrepreneur doesn't feel. So it's getting harder and harder to do business in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u139	Thank you. Question completed. Please prepare, we'll be determined, dear colleagues. We have a lot of laws. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons Entrepreneurs. Registration number 4389, the author is National Deputy Stoyan. For – 75 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Personal Entrepreneurs. Registration number 4789, author of the National MP Musiyaka Viktor Lavrentiovich. Please vote. For – 168 Not accepted. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is submitted to the vote. Registration number 6321, author of the National MP Veretennikov. I'd like to make a statement. For – 27 The decision is not supported. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is submitted to the vote. Registration number 6336, author of National Deputy Dzong. I'd like to make a statement. For – 46 The decision is not taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is submitted to the vote. Registration number 7006, the bill's author is the national deputy of Hubski. I'd like to make a statement. For – 75, The decision is not taken. A bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs is put to the vote. Registration number 7250, authors are national deputies Dubicki and Yehanurov. [[was still a national deputy when he served]] I'd like to make a statement. For – 145. The decision is not taken. The bill is registered number 7265, the author is the National MP Feldman. I'd like to make a statement. For – 45, The decision is not taken. And another bill on the state registration of legal persons and natural persons, entrepreneurs. Registration number 7284, author of the National Deputy Boki. I'd like to make a statement. To – 119. None of the bills received the required number of votes. If there's no objection, let's vote on those bills that received the largest number of votes. Of these, 168 (it's 4389-1, 145) and 7250 and 119-7284. In that order, I will put to the vote all these three bills, which have won the largest number of votes. 4389 – it is the vote. Cloud, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party to pay attention to 4389. If we accept it, we're actually going to do a good job because we're going to protect the unions from the coup d'état. As long as we don't have really free trades, there's not going to be any protection for a hired employee. So I ask you to vote, and then we'll decide later. And even if we vote for it, we'll do a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u141	Stepan Ilkovic, 4389 won only 75 votes -- please listen -- and 4389-1 won 168 -- and it includes trade unions. So if we accept this bill, there are unions involved then. They're on. Stoyan, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u142	Alexander Stoyan, author of the bill. Adam Ivanovich, I agree with your suggestion: we cannot make this law because it applies to both trade unions and political parties and public organizations, religious organizations. I'm willing to give up my law, vote for Musiak, but given that there are some details that are written before the second reading. Please support Musiyaki's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, we have once again agreed that the next law, which has won the largest number of votes, is engulfing the unions involved in the previous bill. So let's support it in the first reading, and then to the second, we'll bring it in line, as we'll see it as necessary. I put to the vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 4389-1: “To amend the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons – Entrepreneurs”. Please vote. For - 224. Don't get excited by the factions. “Our Ukraine” – 3, Communists – 54, “Regions of Ukraine” – 41, National Party – 37, Block Timoshenko – 10, Ukrainian People's Party – 16, Socialists – 3, Social Democrats – 0, “One Ukraine” – 14, “Democratic Ukraine” –, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 9, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 5. Forward Ukraine - 19, Reforms and Orders - 4, NDP Labour Ukraine - 9. Next bill. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Don't excite, everything will be in accordance with the Rules. Then we'll come back. The next Bill, 7250, which won 145 votes. This is National Deputy Dubicki, please identify yourself. To - 128. Another bill that received 119 votes is the Bill of People's Deputies of Boko, 7284, I ask you to identify yourself. To - 101. So, your honorary colleagues, the next second rating vote has shown that we have the largest number of 224 votes in Bill 4389-1, the author of which is the national MP of Musiyak, who, as it were, is absorbing some of those projects that have not been supported. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. Registration number 4389-1 by the National MP Musiyak, please vote. For 280. Decision taken. On factions, please “Our Ukraine” – 30, Communists – 50, “Regions of Ukraine” – 43, People's Party – 42, Block Timoshenko – 5, Ukrainian People's Party – 19, Socialists – 0, “Before Ukraine” – 20, Social Democrats – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 12 “One Ukraine” – 15, “Democratic Ukraine” –, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, NDP – 10, “Trudova Ukraine” – 10 non-fractional – 7. So out of eight bills, we've taken the basis for one of them, and we're asking you to prepare for the second reading, taking into account today's discussion. We go to a series of fairly interesting bills, we have 10 here, bills that have been waiting for a long time to be considered. We agreed that they would be considered today. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that are not subject to privatization. Short-term procedure. I invite the author of Bill 7650-1, Bastrigu Ivan Mikhailovich, to prepare Ignashenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u144	Dear friends! I report the Law on the List of Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. The state-owned interdisciplinary enterprises, the water supply, the Dnipro sewerage industry, West Donbas and the state-owned Sofia Group Water Management Company are natural monopolists from the production and centralized supply of drinking water in the North-East and North-Regional and Southern regions of the Dnipropetrov region. It's a major science-expert facility. Excuse me, the bill proposes to include these enterprises in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. What is the basis for this? According to the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property, part two, article five, is not subject to privatization of engineering infrastructure and the well - being of cities, including networks, buildings, equipment related to the supply of water, gas, heat, and sewage to consumers. A positive conclusion was given by our Directorate-General and a special commission of control for privatization. [[Mace]] I, my friends, ask you to support this Law with my and the Clouds, and to refer these enterprises, which are not privatized, to a list that is not privatized.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u145	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill No. 8019, Deputy Minister of Economy Ignashenko Vladimir Anatoliyovich, please. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs. For your consideration, Bill No. 8029 is proposed, which aims to remove from the list of state-owned property objects that are not privatized, two objects: the Dnipro Hotel, which is an open stock company and 100 percent of the shares of which are owned by the State, and the Sport Hotel, a state-owned enterprise. Now I want to say that these objects are cost-effective, paying taxes. The Dnipro Hotel specializes in providing services to official delegations, which go through the line, including the Supreme Council. And also, Ukrainian and foreign tourists. Sport Hotel, due to its very successful location, is used to serve the Olympic National Assembly of Ukraine has a recreational center. I would like to inform you that, in the morning, with some delay, the government has requested to move the matter forward. Unfortunately, this letter was given quite late.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u147	So you can change your mind to the government, if there is one. It means if the government calls off the bill. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ We offered, I handed it in the morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u148	That's how you cancel or move. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Move the discussion. For further study.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u149	Okay. When we discuss this, we will consider the situation. I think there's going to have to take into account the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers, because it was introduced by the previous Cabinet of Ministers, and according to the Rules, you know that the next Cabinet of Ministers has the right to withdraw the bill. So when we vote, we'll probably take that into account. Thank you, sit down, please. It's not a disgrace, because the government is calling it off. This government. That's why it's embarrassing. So, Bill 8019-1. Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please. Get ready for Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the need for the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Subjects of State Property Rights, which is not subject to privatization, is conditioned by strategic significance for the economy and security of the State, an enterprise of the Odessa Portion Plant. The Odessa Home Company is one of the leading chemical companies. The company manufactures carbamide and ammonia, and it provides services from overload to export. According to the results of financial and economic activity in the last four years and in the current year, the company is working in high profits, increasing production volumes, increasing revenue to the State budget and ensuring a high level of wage for producers. The factory is indeed carrying the golden eggs into the basket of the state. To a large extent, Odessa’s transportation plant is a city - based enterprise. The company is modernizing its products, establishing a new and reliable automatic system of manufacturing control and warning of accidents. In the past three years alone, capital deposits have exceeded half a billion dollars. The Odessa import plant has a monopoly on the market for ammonia, carbamide, and other chemical products in Ukraine and Russia. The company successfully implements the terms of the Intergovernmental Agreement on the transit of Russian ammonia into Ukraine. The privatisation of VAT by Odessa Airport can have negative consequences. In particular, the Ukrainian Security Service informed the President of Ukraine about a possible threat to environmental security as early as August 1999. And at the same time, the President gave the task of suspending all actions concerning the privatization of this plant, that if we did not treat the person of Kuchma, it would be in Ukraine's national interest. The listed enterprise by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 29 August 2000 has been included in the list of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy and security of the state. And it's hard to understand, if you don't take into account the fleeting interests and appetites of the oligarchs, why some people suddenly want to put a parking lot on the market. Taking into account what Alexander Moroz and I have outlined in this bill, we propose to amend the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization and to add to the stated list of shares belonging to the State in the statutory fund of the Odessa Association of Open Shareholders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u151	Thank you. Ivan Sidorovich, please stop, because another bill, where it's about the turboat, it's also, you report. Please report immediately, and then I'll make it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u152	In fact, in the Kharkiv factory, I can report virtually the same reasonings as in the Odessa port factory. Just recently, about a month and a half ago, if not less, we also reported in connection with the Kharkiv factory with a turboat. It is also an enterprise that is of enormous importance in energy engineering and has strategic significance for the development of the Ukrainian economy. And today it would just be unwise to put into private hands an enterprise that works and is highly profitable, and I have all the prospects for further development, and it's one of the defining enterprises for the development of energy, not just the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u153	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Dear colleagues, since there are many drafts, and some of them have the same authors, we have now heard from you the information on Bills 8019-3, where it was a turboat and 1819-4, where it was an Odessa import plant. I'm going to ask you, now we're going to find out, there are two other cabinets of ministers that have bills that apply to rail transport. Well, I guess it's the same position, isn't it? Oh, no? Then please. Now we're going to listen to 8019, this is the author of the Cabinet of Ministers bill, it's about test control and everything else. And the next one will also be Kabminu. Please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! According to his ideology, this law is neutrally opposite; it is generally technical in nature. Look what happened. Between 1999 and 2003, the Ministry of Transport carried out organizational arrangements to reorganize the operation of rail transport. Thus, some businesses have lost their legal status and have simply become structural railways. So the form of ownership hasn't changed, but they've stopped being legal persons, they're not in the register. So essentially, they need to be technically removed from the list because there are no such enterprises anymore, and their property remains in state ownership and are separate structural units of the respective railways: Donetsk and South West. So he's very technical. Yeah. But it remained state property. No one asks questions about its privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u154	No, well, there's a colleague of Kruglov here who's absolutely right. Once we've passed the law, they're going to privatize tomorrow, because they're no longer state property. So, then, we'll come. We're not discussing it yet. Yes, please, next bill, Probative, this is also the Cabinet of Ministers, right? Yeah. Number two. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ It is proposed that eight subjects be included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Seven of them are third-party casinos, which are subject to mandatory branding of jewelry and household products, testing of the quality of precious metals, testing, control analysis of materials, which is a scientific research institute at the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u155	Thank you, sit down. Bill 8019-6, the authors here are Gardeners and others. Please, Mikola Illich. The next one is Akopian.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u156	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradish. Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! Dear Northmen! A bill amending the Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized in respect of the Shares of the ZAT “Northerdonian Association of “Azot”, which is proposed to include in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, in relation to the protection of public interests and provided for by strategic importance for economic and security. The North London Nitrogen Union is one of the leading companies in the chemical industry in Ukraine and produces ammonia, nitrogen minerals, organic alcohols and acids, household chemistry, polymers and polymer film products, and so on. Today, the company produces 1 to 8 tons of Ukrainian fertilizers and provides about 10 percent of the production of the Luhansk region. His condition directly determines the life of the city of Severodonecka. In the second half of the 1990s, the capacity utilization was only 40 percent and there was a debt on pay. As early as the end of 2000, an enterprise bankruptcy case was brought before the Luhansk Economic Court, according to a statement by the creditors of the Azotu. For almost three years, various lawsuits were filed, until in December 2003, the Luhansk District Economic Court approved the implementation of a sanction procedure in the North London Azota, the main variant of which was the restructuring. In October 2004, a three - claimant competition committee met. [[United States]] was recognized as the winner of the competition. The co-founder of this campaign was the American IBE. A corporation that manufactures and sells chemical products and is well - known in the market. The State Property Fund acted as the founder of a closed stock company called the North London Association "Azot" and worked with the company. a contract to create such a ZAT. According to the treaty, the statutory fund of society was set at 1 billion 56.7 million dollars. At that. 60 per cent of the statutory fund received shares and 40 per cent of the statutory fund received State property. The business in 2005 is working profitablely and at full capacity. Product production is 30 million dollars a month. The number of employees is more than 10,000. Since July 1, 2005, the average monthly wage has increased by 20 percent to a thousand dollars. Thus, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized will protect the interests of the state, the stable and efficient operation of the enterprise, the availability of funds to the local and state budgets. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u157	Thank you. Bill number 1819-7, National MP Akopian Valerij Grigorovich. Prepare Gorbachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u158	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The project is proposed to include in the list of State-owned property rights objects that are not subject to privatization a state-owned enterprise, a science-production complex of Zora gas turbines, Mashprojekt, Mikolayev city, which designs and manufactures gas turbines for gas stations, highway pipelines and vessels, including military vessels. I want to remind you of the history of this question. By the law of 1999, "On the List of Enterprises Banned from Privatisation" separate from Zora and Mashprojekt were included in this list of companies banned from privatization. In time, a decision was made on the creation of a new legal entity, and accordingly the business ceased to be on that list. Today, this is a successful state-owned enterprise that employs more than 16,000 people. workers. Gas turbines are the engines of this company installed on foreign fleets today in more than 15 countries around the world, including some U.S. warships using Zori-branded gas turbines. Therefore, there is the conclusion of the Chief Executive, the Legal Authority, of supporting this project as a whole. And I also ask you to support this, because this is the only unique enterprise in all of Post-Radians. There is no such business anymore. It is part of the six world enterprises that compete with our business. These are businesses like the General Motors, for example, or the Rolls-Royce. Therefore, a request to support and include in the list of prohibited persons for privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u159	Thank you. Registration number 8019-8, please, Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich. Get ready for Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, distinguished President! As before, the question of a deputy on a list of enterprises that will not be privatized is, in principle, the same arguments, I believe that I have a company called Delta Lotzman, the city of Nikolayev. The main thing is that this is a profit-making enterprise, about 10 million dollars. It contributes to the public budget every year. What does the company do? The enterprise is engaged in the conduct of the vessels. I can tell you that this facility has very serious equipment, very serious buildings, buildings. On the basis of this enterprise, Ukraine's Lotzman service has been established in the city of Nikolaev, that is, throughout the country. And it covers not only the city of Nikolayev, but it would be narrow, I would not speak only on this issue, although there is, as Akopian has done, such an enterprise as the construction of turbines does. This enterprise covers both the Hersons and the Odessa, and the Crimea, i.e. it operates at the national level at the Lozman level. I can also say that, on instructions from the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, he has also served as the contracting authority. acts as the contracting authority for the design of the Danube-Black Sea deep-sea waterway. That is, quite serious specialists in this enterprise and, if they are doing this amount of work and this level at European level. Delta Lotzman monitors the movement of all vessels in Ukrainian waters and its technology not only enables the safety of navigation but also to track commercial information on the routes of cargo vessels. Well, I think that's the subtext of business. Control of commercial structures and courts, i.e. the tax controls that come from the passing of these courts at the country level into the country's budget, and thus the service can control large financial turnover and budget revenues. I believe that this enterprise should be included in this list and, of course, the enterprise that uses such natural resources and channels must be owned by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u161	Thank you. Bill 8019-9 will be reported by Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna. From the committee of Matthew Volodymyr to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u162	Kirichenko, Party of Regions, Lugansk Region. Dear colleagues and honourable chairman, my bill on Krivorizstall, about. before it is included in the list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization. Today, however, the situation has been very and very difficult. I want to stress that today Krivoriztal is a state-owned enterprise, because the shares are in the establishment of the State Property Fund. But the Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatisation, which I am in charge of, there are many and many complaints that the enterprise is being completely looted and some political parties are behind it. And the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given the commission a further and more thorough study of the state of affairs in this company. So I'm asking you to move to the second sessional Sunday the project on amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. [[on the state-owned stake in Krivoriztali]] Registration number 8090-9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u163	And thank you. But yesterday there was a meeting of the Conciliation Board, where you were actively involved. And it's not in the session, because it's no longer your property, it's in the Conciliation Council. Since you have recently served, we will see before the vote. But this should be done on the Conciliation Council. Please, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, from the committee. Yes, many laws, in five minutes please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u164	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! These laws cannot be adopted as a package because they relate to different forms of property, different enterprises. There is therefore a proposal to vote separately on each law. The Bill 7650-1, introduced by the people's deputies Bastriga and Hmara, proposes to include on the list of enterprises, a list of public property rights that are not to be privatized, a state-owned interdisciplinary water and sewage plant Dneprozaddonbass and a state-owned enterprise, the Sofia Group Water Supply Authority. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft law can be adopted as a basis as a result of its first reading. However, since the object of the engineering structure and urban development, including networks, constructions, equipment related to the provision of water, gas, heat and clean water, is not to be privatized under Part II of the Act on Privatization of State Property, the Committee on Economic Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council, to adopt a draft law amending the Law on Lists of State Property that are not subject to privatization, registered number 7650-1 by the people's deputies Bastriga and Hmarao Report to the others, or we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u165	Yes, everyone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u166	The Bill 8019, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, proposes to exclude from the list the property rights of public property which does not offer privatization, the Sport Hotel and to exclude from the list the public property rights they propose to privatize, but the Dnepr Hotel Complex may be corporateized. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supports the adoption of the project as a basis, but points out that since the Dnieper hotel complex has recently returned to public property following attempts to illegally dispose of it, it is useful to examine and argue more. The Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Lists of Objects of State Property Rights that are Not Privatized, i.e. Registration No. 8019 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. That is, leave the Sport hotel complex and the Dnepr hotel complex on the list of enterprises not to be privatized. Draft Law 8019-1, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, proposed that 30 sites should not be privatized from the list of public property rights. And from the list of public property rights that are not to be privatized, but can be corporateized, i.e. annex No. 2-6 of the facilities that relate to the property complexes of railway undertakings. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that, as a result of its first reading, the bill can be based on subsequent observations, and notes that, in accordance with article 5, paragraph 2, of the Law on Privatization of State Property, the property sets of enterprises that produce basic railway equipment and property complexes of enterprises with their infrastructure are not subject to privatization due to their national importance. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights, which are not subject to privatization, registration No. 8019-1, to send the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for finalization and, when re-acquiring similar proposals or proposals, provide financial and economic justification for their feasibility. The point was made here that, should we delete them from list number 1, they would be privatized immediately. Draft Law 8019-2 was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, proposing that, in return, the listing of public property that is not subject to privatization should be deleted, 8 of which are one, but are generally a scientific institution. All designated facilities belong to the management of the Ministry of Finance, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u167	Vladimir, please don't repeat what the authors said, please inform the committee on each bill and then you will invest in time. So continue, please, but more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u168	Adam Ivanovich, according to the rules of work for the co-rapporteur's report on each bill, has three minutes, and I used 28 seconds. Therefore, I ask that I add enough time to justify 10 bills from the Committee's point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u169	You can reason, but don't tell me what it says.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u170	I remind the people of Ukraine for which they will vote. Bill 8019-3 was introduced by the People's Deputies, the People's Deputies of Moroz and Boki. It proposes to include in the list of public property rights that are not subject to privatization an open shareholding company account “Turbo-atem”, which is owned by the State on the day of entry into law, by law. The Chief Research and Expert Office of the Supreme Council believes that, as a result of the first reading, the project can be taken as a basis. In doing so, it is proposed to separate shares belonging to the State of the statutory funds of economic societies into a separate list. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law amending the Law on Lists of Objects of State Property Rights, which do not belong to privatization, registration No. 8019-3, introduced by Moroz and Bokim. They also introduced Bill No. 8019-4, which proposes to include in the list of public property rights that do not belong to privatization, a package of shares of the Odessa Home Company, which is owned by the State at the time of adoption of the Act. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council believes that, as a result of the first reading, the project can be based on the comments made. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Law on Lists of State Property Objects that are Not Privatized, i.e. to leave the Odessa Portal Plant on the list of one enterprises that are not subject to privatization. Nos. 8019-6, submitted by the People's Deputies: Sadov, Mordove and Rudkovsky. It proposes to include in the list of public property rights that are not subject to privatization the actions of the Open Shareholder Society, Ukrnafta. To date, 50 per cent of public property is owned by the State, plus one share of the Charter Fund of the Open Shareholder Society, Ukrnafta. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that it can be adopted on first reading and adopted as a basis. It is also proposed that shares that belong to the State be allocated. The statutory funds of economic societies are listed on a separate list. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending the Law on List of Objects of State Property Rights, which is not subject to privatization. Akopian proposed a bill. Akopian 8019-7, National Deputy of Ukraine, which proposes to include in the list of public property rights that are not privatized, i.e. List No. 1, State Enterprise, Zara Maash project Science and Production Complex. The reasons here were correctly justified, i.e. one of the two enterprises was formed and must now be listed so that it does not belong to privatization. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office generally supports the adoption of this law. I don't go over the rules. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law amending the Law on List of Objects of State Property Rights, registration number 8919-7, in principle, can be adopted both as a basis and as a whole. 8019-8 submitted by the people's representative of Ukraine, Gorbachev. The bill is proposed to include a State-owned property that is not privatized by the Delta Lotzman State Enterprise. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that the first reading can be adopted and adopted as a basis. It draws attention to the fact that, in part two of article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatization of State Property, which defines facilities that are not privatized due to their public importance, the enterprise must be a safety craft, but are not included. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Act on List of Objects of State Property Rights that Do Not Belong to Privatization. With regard to the bill tabled by the People's MP Kirichenko, we have now actually considered the bill at the meeting of the Privatization Monitoring Commission and, taking into account the mandate given by the President of the Supreme Council, Litvin Vladimir Mihajlovich, we believe that the bill should be withdrawn and postponed for the next sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u171	Yes, have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The school of Andrew, followed by Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u172	Dear National Deputies, School of Andrey, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I would like to point out that the proposed set of laws, which proposes to leave in different forms of government property, deserves support, and in particular, all the laws that have been reported here, I understand, the unrest of MPs who are clearly oriented in situations that assure both those present in the Chamber of Deputies and radio listeners that they should not rush into privatization policy. I can say here that Law 7650-1 is clearly in line with existing legislation, and I think the conclusion of support is clear. I would just like literally a few words so that there is no one who wants to speculate on the Sport Hotel and the Dnipro Hotel. Please note that the Cabinet of Ministers has changed. All those who proposed - Minfin stayed the same, Minprompolitics the same minister, Youth and Sports remained the same minister. Whose property these objects were in is also difficult to clarify because we have different forms of ownership, but the State Property Fund has also not, in practice, changed since they were being privatized. So talking about what a prime minister did is not worth it. We need to talk about the Cabinet of Ministers, because the Cabinet of Ministers now remains virtually unchanged with what was before, practically. So I don't think there's going to be any more screenings here. And I call, of course, for support. Support the non-introduction of sports facilities and hotels and the Dnipro hotel, because the Sport Hotel is the hotel that allows them to be placed on the mutual arrangements of athletes who come here to compete in Ukraine, and under the same conditions they will be located in the countries where they come to the competition as well. It's always good for the state, because it reduces budget pressure, because sometimes it's going to take money to spend on athletes in one country or another. It's always easier and easier to work with each other. The same thing, I think, applies to the Dnipro Hotel. It was recently returned to state property and I believe that it should remain in state property, at least for a certain period of time. Because, in the first place, the drafters of the bill must be fully in agreement with those objects that are inconvenient to the State for maintenance or are very convenient for sale. These objects, which are listed, including the scientific association “The Star, ” should not be privatized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u173	Thank you. Please, Basil Nadrag. Vladimir Yeshchenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u174	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to refer literally to the two bills at least on the grounds that I have been asked to do so by my colleagues in the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. And so, the first of them. I would like to refer to Bill 8019-7, which deals with the Zoramas project gas pipeline complex, author Akopan Valery Grigoryevich, a colleague, as I said, by faction. Dear friends, what is this enterprise? This is primarily 90 per cent of Ukrainian gas turbines, the Zoramas project science and production complex is known worldwide as the major manufacturer of gas turbine power plants for ships and gas pumping units. Production is exported worldwide to both the Russian Federation and Europe and Asia. In the area of ship's, ship's gas turbines there are no analogues in the CIS. The leading firms of the world are the main competitors. This is General Electric, General Motors, Siemens. Many observers believe that the transfer of the enterprise from person to private is necessary for true privatization customers to destroy a strong competitor. I can add one more. Yes, unfortunately, there is often enough. She was and remains tough, this competition. Because the Star gas engines are installed, they work on vessels of the United States Navy, India, Greece and other countries. Currently, Russian shipbuilding plants are building ships for the gas turbines of the association. The Gazprom giant Russian also operates the Zori gas turbines. Therefore, Akopan Valery Grigorjevic's proposal is absolutely correct, according to which the enterprise should not be removed from the list of non-privatizations. It must remain stately. And another business is the Odessa Airport. We've talked about this a lot here, it's talked about in society, it's noisy, I'm not afraid of that word, the city of South Odessa, where this business is located. At the request of my colleague, Kalinczuk, Vasili Antonović, the Odessyt, a man who knows this, who has many references to this topic of his fellow countrymen, I would like to state that if we allow you to privatize an enterprise which, at its technical level, overtakes similar enterprises for 50-60 years, if we allow us to privatize not only the enterprise itself, but the logistics base, the docks, thus we will harm ourselves and not our country, we will harm future generations. Therefore, it is absolutely in solidarity with the party organization of the People's Party of the South City, which has made extensive treatments, including towards the Supreme Council on the inadmissibility of privatization of the Odessa Portal Plant. These two bills, I believe, must be supported because the people must remain with the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u175	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u176	The Communist faction, Cherkashina. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bills that the Cabinet of Ministers introduced are 8019 and 8019-1. These are bills that are once again forcing us to withdraw from the number one list those objects that are going to be privatized, and I can say that, not for privatization, but for acceptance, in order to execute that plan already in the 2006 draft budget, it's about 9 billion dollars. And what I'm saying is that my colleagues are talking to me, this respectable comrade of Noshchenko, that if he wasn't on the profile committee, how could we bring a bill to our consideration? This refers to the exclusion of railway objects. That's 30 objects on list one. The committee hasn't considered it, but they're bringing it in because it's already planned. And we're told it's a technological law. Therefore, there is no way to vote for him, and he should be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers for further work. I want to stop. An example of this is the sugar industry, when there were 24 factories in Cherkashina that produced 640,000 tons of sugar from sugar beet, today there were 11 planned to release only 140,000 tons this year. And at the same time, all those so-called privatized sugar industries, they're not just being destroyed, they're being cut out. And people are out of a job. I had a request from an MP at the Ryaza sugar plant in the district of Uman. I was there. And I'm getting an answer from former First Vice Prime Minister Kinach, where he writes himself, and he stresses: with regard to the restoration of the work of the Rice Sugar Plant, there is no state-owned property in the statutory fund of this company. According to a report by the Czerka Authority, the business in question is bankrupt. For the last five years, the sugar plant has not worked, lost its drilling zone, and its technological equipment has been dismantled. And so it will be with those factories, with those objects offered today by the Cabinet of Ministers. So a faction of Communists will support those laws that go to list number one, those that will not be privatized. Because our faction is that the main sectors of our economy are to nationalize enterprises and bring the state back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u177	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u178	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Dear radio listeners! For the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, it is principled among those bills that have been tabled before Parliament today. This is Bill 8019-3, which proposes to be excluded from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, VAT Turbot, for us, is very fundamental. We have repeatedly stated to Ukraine that important strategic objects must be protected for the state, for the people, for the economy of Ukraine. But today, exactly what the Socialists have said and warned about, among the drafters of the bill, that they still retain the state ownership of certain strategic objects in Ukraine, are those who voted earlier to privatise these objects. But let's say that it's important for us to keep the Odessa Portal Plant in state ownership so that we can save the shares, the state shares in the charter fund of the UKKrnaft. We both need to support the Zoramas project gas turbine bill, a science-production complex. A mandatory need for support in Parliament today is the Deltaltzman bill, which has in particular ensured the Lotz execution of vessels and other measures to ensure the safety of navigation. That is, there are objects that we are over today that the bills need support in this room. This is also true of the ‘Criminals’. We understand how many processes have developed around this company. Some were protective, others wanted to take away others. And the interests of the State remained outside for a while. And today Parliament has returned very faithfully to the fact that let's put a dot today and vote in favour of this bill, which will still preserve such a powerful enterprise for Ukraine. I won't stop at all the bills. Of course, each of them has its own direction. But especially on the strategic objects that I have talked about, and what socialists insist on, it is imperative that you and I consolidate and support these bills by preserving those strategic enterprises that are still state property for Ukraine today, for Ukraine’s future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. With a motive, please. Is the rabbit asking for a motive? One minute. One of the factions is someone. Please, one minute, Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u180	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! I think we'll make a big mistake if we look at each individual bill. On the one hand, the government is proposing that we get off the list of enterprises that should not be privatized, the whole spectrum of such enterprises. On the other hand, national MPs, who have heard or seen what kind of bill says that they should not privatize. So this is a discussion that we've seen today for three minutes for 10 bills and four speeches, it's just funny, it's funny to make such important decisions. And if you talk about, for example, the Star Project, you could actually do turbines and save electricity, maybe 25 percent if you put them where there's heat and so on. That's not true. So we haven't heard what projects are behind every one of these bills. Because no matter what we vote, we will make a mistake because there was no serious discussion, no government opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Maybe the whole faction will sign up, please find out which one of you would like to make a statement. To be written down, this work is not a big one, it's a reduced procedure. Please, Mr. Cranwell. None. Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! As in the past, I can say that I was at the source of the Deltatzman company, and I want to say that privatising the Deltatzman is even better than privatising the border state, because all the courts that enter Ukraine pass and pay for it are giving up Deltaltzman. That's the first one. And the second. The need to include in the list of companies that are not subject to the privatisation of the Zora Maash project is due to the fact that in the 99th year before and during the electoral campaign an attempt has already been made to privatize this enterprise, a work commission has already been created and a privatisation commission has been established. So for today, this business must be included, and it is already being taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u183	Yes, please, Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I support the proposals made by the Committee on Economic Policy, Property and Investment, which I am a member of, and on behalf of which the statement by the deputy Matthews, we have scrupulously studied all these issues and I think we have made the right decisions. And that's why I call for these proposals to be voted on. At the same time, I want to make one major conceptual observation. The point is that we have not yet determined exactly what enterprises to leave in a state that is not. We have not defined the criteria, so we have a sumurate, conjuncture, lobbying in this area. If we conceptually define the criteria on which we leave, whether it's strategic enterprises or something special, something else, we don't have a concept. And that's why we have a tambourine and we have lobbying. But in these real conditions, I think we should vote as the committee suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, I ask you to drop your hands. Only those will get the word that's written down, because we're going to talk right now, we're going to be talking for a while, every one of us is going to be asking this question. Let's demonstrate by voting our attitude. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u186	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues, in Odessa, the Bellows observe what will happen to the driveway because it cannot become a hostage of the situation at least from the point of view of the safety of citizens. If, God forbid, it's going to happen the way it's planned right now -- to dismember a factory, to give a piece to one, to leave a piece of state property, it might just be a disaster. I'd like to give you this argument to uphold these laws today. You remember that I introduced the draft Law against Privatization of Kharkiv. We gave a protocol commission to the government to show how some of the shares were no longer in the state. How? And so far, we've got nothing on it. We didn't get anything from the Attorney General's office how this could have happened. So, honourable people's deputies, let's vote, even though we're few in the room right now, these are the defining bills that will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u187	Chernobyl Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, I would now like to say the position of our faction on one bill, and to support Ludmila Kirichenko. We were initiating to include companies that were not privatized, Krivorizstal. We're still in position, but there's information that's kind of like this period right now when it's there. when it's essentially in a very symbolic but state-owned state-owned place, it's begun to essentially pillage the plant, it's started to very objectively use it in someone's useful motives, and so I support Ludmila Kirichenko's position not to cancel, not to reject, but to postpone the consideration and urgently call the factory's leadership to a board meeting, to conduct a check, to study the circumstances and then to return to this situation, not to vote today, because now to vote on the remaining state-owned property, when, under the authority and management, it's actually going to be derailed illogically. Therefore, I ask you to put the matter aside and return to the committee after studying it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u189	Yes, everyone who signed up has spoken. Well, considering semi-validity, please, Mikola Rudzikowski, Gladys, Damanski, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u190	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, despite what few of us are in the room today, we need to vote in favour of the proposed bills, because they are strategic objects, and if some of the people's deputies say that they have not yet identified themselves with the concept of privatizing that they are not, we socialists have identified ourselves and say that we should leave the state-owned enterprises that have strategic meanings that ensure the life processes and security of the state. And that's why these businesses that were being considered are like this. I'd like everyone to vote in a friendly manner. Of course, if there are some issues and discussions that need to continue privatization, about nonstrategic enterprises, these costs need to be directed directly towards the return of citizens’ savings. Then no one will be pressured by the executive authority by privatization to fill the budget and, on the other hand, people will not feel themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u191	Smooth, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u192	Road colleagues, the Railway Directorate is the first structure in the rail transport system to directly guide the transport of goods and passengers. And that's the first step that you can cut off to take a person's feet off, take about that, and cut off from the railways the privatization of these 30 sites. I therefore address all colleagues and railways, which in no case should all railways be under State control rather than privatized. We see, we know that in Europe some roads have been privatized, and we see a very painful experience. Therefore, I appeal to all colleagues: let us not support this law, because I believe that this Cabinet of Ministers, headed by Julia Vladimirovna, must have wanted to catch up with what they did not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u193	Anatoly Domansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u194	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies, distinguished voters! You know that the Company is in favour of nationalization of large enterprises, which will enable us to resolve the development of Ukraine and solve all the social welfare issues of our people. The other one. My support is to stop the privatization of the objects that are being proposed today. Third. On Thursday, a city council session was held in Žitomir. She showed that the town oligarch Borovkov and the city's giant oligarchs, realizing that they had a few months left before the election and that they had to sell it all out, they sold it to the left and to the right, they were machining, they wanted to put their pockets on, and they wanted to go to the polls. So I think it would be right to stop completely privatizing until the election is over, not allow all the passers-by to take advantage of the mountain and the suffering of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! It's a rough question, done. Indeed, it is each of you who rightly emphasized the strategic significance of it, for we are talking about strategically appointed objects. And they should remain in the hands of the state. Let's take the results of the discussions and we'll make a decision with you to make it easier for you to think about, I'll call you the project number, the authors and what it's all about. The bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Non-privatisation of State-owned Property Rights is put to the vote, registration number 7650-1 the authors of the National Deputies of Bastrig and the Cloud, who propose to include in this list that are not subject to the privatization of the water supply company Dnipro West Donbas and the state-owned company of the Sofia Group Water Supply. Please vote. To - 333. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Maybe we'll just take the whole thing as a law? Because there's nothing to rule if you agree. Then I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law of the Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, registration number 7650-1, authors of the Bastrig and the Cloud. Please support as a whole as a law. For -340. Thank you. The law is passed. Now, dear colleagues, this is about the law that introduced the Cabinet of Ministers, 8019, where it was about to be excluded from the list of Dnipro and Sport Hotel facilities. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking us not to consider this bill right now. There's no denying we're voting on these right now? Dear colleagues, who is it? Calm down, I'm a lot of you alone, so one thing at a time. Dear colleagues, then I bet. I will now put to the vote a motion from the Cabinet of Ministers to call this bill off, and then we will be with you. Who's for calling off this bill, put down, please vote, determine. To – 112. The factions. Communists – 0, “Ukraine” – 11, National Party – 17, “Our Ukraine” – 4, Block Timoshenko – 13, Socialists – 0, Ukrainian National Party – 5, “Forward Ukraine!” – 19, Social Democrats – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 10, “One Ukraine” – 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 12, National Movement of Ukraine – 5, NDP – 8, Labour Ukraine – 8, non-fractional – 6. So you and I will now be determined by the fate of this law. Insomnia, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u196	"Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenka. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to say that before the first reading, before the adoption of the drafts, its authors, those who submitted, have the right to withdraw and withdraw. We don't have to agree, we always do that before the first reading. When the bill was adopted in the first reading, then it is, well, as if the property of the Supreme Council were being worked out by a committee. Therefore, if the subject of the legislative initiative withdraws his law, the bill, forgive me, we cannot prevent this from happening, however we do not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u197	You've already spoken, School, and said your opinion from the rostrum. You're right about the recall, but it's still the oral words of one of the deputy ministers. I don't want to downplay it, but it's passing bills and calling off the Cabinet of Ministers at the signature of the Prime Minister. So let's be logical. Please, let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u198	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you, all 400 national deputies, to vote against this bill. We're being approached by world champions, Olympic champions. The only hotel that serves athletes throughout Kiev and Ukraine cannot be privatized. As is the case with the Dnipro Hotel. Today, this is the only state hotel complex in the tourist industry. The rejection of this bill will allow us not to return at all. And all the other things that my predecessor said, all of these games are to be played in order to be loved in ways that the government of Tymoshenko has not been able to do, this government will necessarily do. Therefore, we have a friendly vote against it!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, calm down. I think you and I have made the right decision when we failed to support the Cabinet of Ministers. If the Cabinet of Ministers calls him off, then he does not want privatization and we will now support his desire that hotels and Sports and Dnipro are not privatized, we will solve the problem and we will take away the "primary pain" in general. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill No. 8019, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, which is to exclude companies that are not subject to the privatization of Sport hotels and the Dnipro hotel complex. I'd like to make a statement. For 66. Thank you. 66. We listened to the Cabinet of Ministers, the bill was rejected. I continue our session to consider the voting. We've got a few minutes left. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized is on the vote. Registration number 8019-1. This is to exclude from this list a large number of the property complex of railway transport and infrastructure. I'd like to make a statement. For 67. Thank you. At least we'll leave the rail transport in the state. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized is put to the vote, registration number 8019-2, the author of the bill is the Cabinet of Ministers. This is about including in the list of objects the right to state ownership, which is not subject to privatization, in the case of casinos and research institutes at the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Kabminu’s thinking is quite fair. Let's support him. We're voting friendlyly. For 312. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, can we accept it as a law? Then I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law, a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property that Are Not Privatized, registration number 8019-2. Please vote. For – 331 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects, which are not privatised to VAT by Turbot, is on the vote. The authors of the Moroz and Boki Bill. Registration number 8019-3. Please vote. For 294. Thank you. Copy that. Is there no objection in general as a law? Then I put it as a law as a whole. Please vote. For -330. The law, registration number 8019-3, regarding the turbot was adopted. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property, which is not subject to privatization in respect of VAT, Odeski Příportní izvoda, is on the vote. Registration number 8019-4. The authors of the Moroz and Boki Bill. Please vote. There is an appeal by Odessa’s deputies to each of us. Let's support them. For – 344 Decision taken. There are no objections in general as a law. Even Carmazin supports us. That's why I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law for registration number 8019-4, where it's about VAT, Odessa Airport. Please vote. For – 344 The law is passed. Yes, the next bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized” on VAT shares "Ukranafta". Here is a group of national deputies from Sadowa, Mordovian, Rudzikowski, Muchin, and Melniczuk. Please vote. To - 349. The first reading was accepted. No objections in general? Then I'm voting on the adoption of the law for registration number 1819-6, where it's about the stakes of the Ukranafta VAT. Please vote. For 337. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. There is a bill on the inclusion in the list of non-privatisation enterprises, the state-owned science-production complex of the Zora Maash project, under heading 8019-7. The author of the legislative initiative is our colleague Akopian. Please vote. For -347. Copy that. In general, can we vote? I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a law. Registration number 8019-7 for the Star Project. Please vote. For 352. The law is passed. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Lists of Property Rights Objects, which are not privatised to the State Enterprise Delta Lotzman, is on the vote. The registration number is 8019-8, the author of our colleague Gorbachev's legislative initiative. Please vote. For - 344. The first reading was accepted. Is there no objection in general as a law? I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a law. Registration number is 8019-8 for Delta Lutzman. Please be supportive. For -339. Decision taken. And, honourable colleagues, a long-remembered bill on the "Criminals". This is about not privatizing the government's share. But who's going to tell me how many states now own the "Criminals"? How much? 96 percent of the nation has already sold its share, sadly. Yeah, tell me. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u200	Adam Ivanovich, the whole point is that the government's stock package is in the government of the state today. The formerly sold stock is now in state administration and is now in the State Property Fund. Yes, Alexander Nikolayevich? Confirms the State Property Fund. I mean, well, there's every reason to think it's today. But let's put it this way, state property. The question is quite different, to postpone consideration of the issue for two weeks. This does not prevent the competition announced today because the competition is due to take place on 29 October. So in two weeks, in 14 days, we'll consider the matter and we'll decide. Let's do that. Let us therefore give consideration to this issue for two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I thought that really, since some of the deputies, our colleagues, sold this factory, I thought there was nothing to go back to. If this is true, confirms the Deputy Head of the State Property Fund, which is actually owned by the state, then you and I have the right to adopt this bill. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of National Property Rights Objects, which are not subject to privatisation in relation to Croatstal. Registration number 8019-9, author of the National MP Kirichenko. Please vote. To - 154. It's the factions, please. Communists – 55, Party of the Regions – 5, People's Party – 2, Our Ukraine – 2, Block of Timoshenko – 12, Party of the Socialist Party – 25, Party of the Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 20, Social Democrats – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 1, Party of the “One Ukraine” – 9, Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs – 10, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “Trudova Ukraine” – 5, non-fractional – 8. Dear colleagues, can we support the re-reading of what the committee is asking for, what the committee is asking for, and the special committee? Who's in favour of re-reading this bill, please vote. This is the position of the committee and the special committee, let's support them. For - 126. The decision is not taken. Yes, dear colleagues, thank you so much for your work together. You and I have passed a series of laws. The only thing I would really like to do is, as far as the bill is concerned, I'm addressing both the profile committee and the privatization committee, but more to the profile committee, so let's prepare a general table in this case and, if there's no objection to any object, we'll vote in general. There's a denial that we're going to vote separately, then we're going to save time with you. Thank you. This morning’s session is closed.
