ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:02:04]] There are 394 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Honourable National Deputies, on October 20, 2005, the Central Electoral Commission registered Pavlick Dmitry Vasilovich with the National Deputy of Ukraine in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the political party block of the Viktor Yuszczenk “Our Ukraine”. In accordance with article 89 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Vasilovich Pavličko, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. Please, Dmitri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u2	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, and to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u3	Let's welcome Dmitri Vasilovich. Please listen to the results of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 20. You and I have considered 14 issues of the agenda. As a result of their consideration, two laws and 18 regulations were passed, three draft decrees were rejected, and a report was received by the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine Semenyuk and the Minister of Industrial Policy of Shandria on the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the maintenance of the State-owned VAT stock package of the Crevorosian Mining and Metallurgical Combined Crevorižstal, as well as on the move and conditions for the sale of the VAT package of Krivorižstal. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, I'll make announcements and parliamentary inquiries. Yes, please point to the board. Yes, listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies, articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare my membership as a member of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Pavelica Dmitry Vasilovich. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the Socialist Party’s parliamentary faction on 18 October of this year that the authorized representative of this faction has been further elected as Ukraine’s national deputy, Rudekovsky Mikolaiovich. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and the protocol of the National Assemblys of the Ukrainian People's Deputies of 20 October 2005, I will inform you of the formation of the parliamentary group “Trust of the People” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call. The “Trust of the People” group is composed of 15 Ukrainian national deputies. Deputy leader of the People's Trust Group was elected Ukrainian national deputy Kisse Anton Ivanovich. People’s deputies from Ukraine, Gabriel Vasilovich, Konovaluk Valerija Ilić, Mikol Ivanovich, were elected as authorized representatives of the faction. I think you're going to be interested in a personal file, so I'm going to give it a little bit of an ad. The French both, the Gladys, the Mosquitos and the Wheelsman, who simultaneously announced the exit of the One Ukraine MP faction, so I report that, according to the rules of the Rules, within two weeks, if there is no replenishment in this faction, it will be dissolved. Kozlovsky, a corresponding exit from the BUT faction, Smianenko, Budagyanz, Soloshenko, Demöchin, Rahansky, Gavriluk, Kisse, Konovaluk, Porovsky. 15 national deputies. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: A group of people’s deputies to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation at the state - owned enterprise “Kyiva Aviation Plant Ukraine. [[THE WITNESSES, THE TEETH, THE SEVENNOG, AND OTHERS]] Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:08:37]] For-157. Request accepted, i.e. supported, sorry. Please vote for the President's request. [[10:09:00]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine for excessive concentration by the central authority of financial resources to the detriment of the regional government. [[FRUIT, VERNIDOUBOV, COMAR, AND OTHERS]] Please vote for support. [[10:09:34]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the actions of the highest officials of the State proclaimed in the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine, the Act of Declaration of Independence of Ukraine for the purposes confirmed by the will of the people in the Universal referendum of December 1, 1991, to be a permanently neutral, non-locked and non-nuclear state. [[SOLOMATAN, ALEXIEV, HERASIM, AND OTHER]] Please support the content of the request. [[10:10:27]] For 186 Decision taken. Please support the request to the President, we vote. [[10:10:54]] For 217 Not accepted. Igor JEREMEYEV to the President of Ukraine for the destabilization of the work, he established education in the Borispil district of Kyiv. Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:11:23]] For-152. Copy that. Please vote for the request. [[10:11:45]] For 165 Not accepted. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the President of Ukraine on the situation in the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex. Please support the request. Vote. [[10:12:12]] For 190 Decision taken. Please vote for the request. Vote. [[10:12:34]] For 242 Decision taken. Gennady RUDENKA to the President of Ukraine on violations by the National Stock Exchange Company NaftoGaz Ukraine of the requirements of the Law on Natural Monopolies, the “Treaty and Rules for the Performing of Entrepreneurship, License Conditions for the Transport of Natural Gas by Mainway Pipeline, the Obstacle to the Development of Infrastructure and the Implementation of Compressed Natural Gas as an Alternative Type of Motor Fuel. We vote in favour of the request. [[10:13:22]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the verification of the laundering of dirty money by the company “Transalpina” in Munich, which is the middleman between the recipients of the costs of the Crebrozal Metal Cell and the Odessa Portal Plant, to which the National Deputy Rudzkowski relates. [[Non-chip, Tkalenko and others]] Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:14:09]] For-183 Decision taken. Please vote for the President's request. Vote. [[10:14:30.]] For-198 The decision is not taken. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, for the payment of the debt for the construction of a gas pipeline to the villages of Xavier and Lisogor of the Winnitsk Region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOV to the Prime Minister, Attorney General, Minister of Agro-industry policy on the situation that took place in the open-ended “Krayan” stock company. Mr. Alexander CERNOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environmental Protection, Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Minister of Agrarian Policy, State Customs Office for the Prevention of the Avian Influenza Epidemic in Ukraine. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds to the village of Hryzniki in the district of Žitomir. ROBERT to the Prime Minister about the thermal security of building No. 8 on the street of the Elevator city of Simferopol. MICHELLA TO THE Prime Minister on budgetary security for the implementation of the Law on the Social Protection of War Children. IgorA CHELOMBITKA to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Fuel and Energy, the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Rule of Law in carrying out the calculations by the state-owned enterprises of the Republic of Moldova for the goods imported from Ukraine. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister for the quantities of grains purchased by government operators of the grain market for the creation of a food reserve. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister on the need to clean up the Belgrade Canal. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to the Prime Minister for non-implementation of the “Programme for the Reform and Development of the Water and Channeling Economy of the Luhansk Region 2004-2006 and the period until 2010”. Mr Wojša to the Prime Minister on the state of subsidisation of local budgets for the construction of pipelines and gasification of populated areas, primarily rural, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Prime Minister, the first Deputy Attorney General, on the situation surrounding the open shareholder association of the “Krayan Holding Company”. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Ministry of Defence, the Minister of Transport and Communications, the Head of the Board, the Head of the National Council for Television and Radio on the illegal cessation of the language of the British Armed Forces radio station, the only Ukrainian FM radio station in Crimea. [[I. KNOCK, MANCHULEN, Cloud and others]] Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice for the failure to implement the ruling of the Regional Court of Vladarska Volin in the District of Žitomir by the judicial officers of the State Executive Service. Mr. Vladimir ĆENKA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the Grand-Burem district hospital in the Cherkas region. Alexander KYSELOVA to the Prime Minister for the repair of the Luhansk Multi-Profession Hospital No.4. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Prime Minister on the attempt to illegally privatise and sell the Open Share Company “Majak”. Ms. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister for the purpose of addressing the villagers of the village of Lissian district of Cherkas in connection with the gasification of the villages. FIXA to the Prime Minister on State support for agricultural producers. Mr Wojša to the Prime Minister on the state of subsidisation of local budgets for the construction of pipelines and gasification of populated areas, primarily rural, in the Herson region. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the non-deployment and sale of the Odessa heavy pneumatic crane factory. Peter SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Board of Directors, on the provision of information on the participation of individual commercial structures and national deputies in the implementation of the metal production of the Open Shareholder Society “Cruvoristal”. Igor ALEXIEVA and Alexia BABURINA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Holding Foundation, on the illegal actions of the management of the state-owned enterprise, the Krayan company of Odessa, which led him to bankruptcy. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister on the financing situation of the Volin Zone Research Station. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the creative potential of the Kobzarik Group for gifted children at the Cosatian School of Education No. 9 of the Winnitsk Region. MICHELLA TO THE Prime Minister for the establishment of a minimum level of purchase prices for milk and milk raw material and for the prevention of the production of milk by the rural population. Mr. Alexander TKALENKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Herson government for the gasification of the city of Berislav Hersson. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Transport and Communications, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Head of State Road Service for the traffic situation in Kiev. Vladimir JAVORIJA to the Prime Minister on the threat of a spring price increase in sugar due to the failure to purchase this product by the Reserve and the possibility of a deficit before the start of sugar production, which means that middle-sized structures will benefit from their interests. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General's Office, the Head of the Board of Directors on the situation surrounding the process of return to state ownership of illegally privatized individual enterprise shares. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the completion of the construction and reconstruction of separate socio-cultural sites of the village of Gornostievka in the Herson region. Mr. Vladimir NICHIPREH to the Prime Minister, acting as Attorney General, Head of the Board of Directors for the abuse of office and the receiving of bribes by the Minister of Internal Affairs. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council for the Budget on the Income Part of the Local Budgets of the Donetsk Region. [[ROMARUK, COMAR, CORSACOVE, AND OTHER]] Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Head of the Holding Foundation, acting as Attorney General on the legality of the activities of the open-ended holding company Krayan and assisting in the conservation of the heavy-duty manufacturing plant TV “Istrian”. Group of People's Deputies to the Prime Minister, Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the illegal merger by Roman Immortal Leader of the Party's Election Campaign, the People's Union “Our Ukraine” and the position of Vice Prime Minister. [[GAVRILUK, TAGNIBOK, BONDARENKO]] Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the anti-State activities of the Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection. [[KRUK, STREKK, RACHAN]] Vassila HARA to the Prime Minister for funding the New Year's gift of children from the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of employment. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister to increase the amount of payment for primary schools in rural areas. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the reconstruction of the Mirgorod District Cultural House of the Poltavian Region. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister on the situation in the State Department's facilities on execution of sentences in Zaporozhye area on the payment of taxes on the budget and on energy consumption. Group of People's Deputies to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgetary Questions on the indicators of the draft Law on State Budget 2006 in the Donetsk Region. [[BACHTEIVA, VASILEV, COMAR, AND OTHERS]] Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister, acting as Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for Abuse in Decommissioning of Agricultural Production Corporation “Ghanichi”. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the attorney general's first deputy on the situation surrounding the sugar plant in the town of Mala viska Kirovograd. JEREMY OF CATUSH’S to the Attorney General regarding the examination of the facts given in the address of a citizen of Custous. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the office of the Attorney General in charge of repaying the debt on wages and agricultural equipment of the “Diana” community of the village of Uržajne Berislav district of the Hersonian region. Group of National Deputies ( ZUBOV, SAS, CHICHKOV, and others) to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General, the Head of State’s Office, the Head of the U.S.S. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General for the violation of legislation by the management of the Engels Novopskovsky Agricultural Association of the Luhansk Region on the right of citizens to own land. Michael DOBKIN to the Attorney General, Head of the Wallin Observance, on the situation surrounding the illegal removal of the land of the inhabitants of the city of Covél Volinsk. John VERNIDOUBOV to the Deputy Attorney General for cutting down trees at Alushta’s health facility. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney General’s Office on the rightfulness of the mass eviction of single mothers with young children from the dormitory No. 6 of the Open Shareholder Society “Dnipropetrovska” of the city of Dnipropetrovska. Gregory KALETNIKA to the Attorney General's Office on illegal dismissal and persecution for the political reasons of the Director of the Gnievan Technical and Occupational Training School No.12 of the Vinnitsk Region. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to the acting responsibility of the Attorney General on the need to open a criminal case for provocative activity with the anti-State targeting of the Alliance, Progressive Socialist, Communist and Brotherhood. Anatolia GREZJEVA to the Attorney General's Office on the legality of the actions of the Fastovi Interstate Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region on the investigation of the road accident, which took place on June 11th in the village of Negrasji Kyivo-Svetoshini district. Igora ŠURMI to the Attorney-General's Office on information regarding the administrative pressure to vote on the election of the National Deputies on the issue of the approval of the Supreme Council for the appointment of Yuri Yehanurov as Prime Minister. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney General's Office on the legality of the actions of officials of the committee of the Dnipropetrov City Council on the establishment of ownership rights for the property of the property of the Ukrainian-American Association of Foreign Investments Advil. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the attorney - general’s first deputy on a criminal case for improper performance of professional duties. VADIM MISSURA to the Attorney General for the preservation of socially important objects in the city of Kyiv, Shevchenkov, from the arbitrary barrier. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General for violating the rights of members of the agricultural production cooperative Connel Popovka in the region of Cherkaskow. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Deputy Attorney General on the illegal activity of the chief physician of the Luhansk district cancer clinic and the legal evaluation of the decision of the Luhansk District Council No.18/19. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI, acting as Attorney - General, Minister of Education and Science for the unlawful release and political persecution of the head of the Jury Chumak’s Administrative Board of the School of the DDolbunski district of Ludmila Bilavsk. Groups of National Deputies to the First Deputy of Henprocuror, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the non-reaction of law enforcement authorities to the theft of documents and the sealing of receptional national deputies in Simferopol. [[CONNECTION, DEMOHINE, RACHAN]] Dmitry SVETAŠA to the first deputy of Henprocuror for the illegal activities of companies in Kharkiv and Kharkiv region, which use schemes for illegal tax compensation for added value, while promoting corrupt DPA workers in the Kharkiv region. Igora ALEXIJEVA and Alexia BABURIN are under the responsibility of the Attorney General for the illegal conduct of the management of the state-owned holding company Krayan City of Odessa, aimed at bringing him to bankruptcy and breaching contracts in front of an investor in the person of TOV “Istrian”. Vladimir DEMOJIN to the first Deputy Attorney-General for the examination of the complaint by the representative of the “X and m a t” association on the facts of the inaction of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region of Popov. Mr. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General’s Office, the Security Service, for the purpose of halting the criminal investigation into the former First Deputy Head of the Salagore State Customs Service. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General, the minister of internal affairs on the theft of property by the management of the Kalinov Central District Hospital. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the first Deputy Attorney General on the situation that took place at the Odessa factory of the heavy construction of the holding company Krayan. LILIA GRIGOROVIC to the Deputy Attorney General for the violation of the citizen’s constitutional right to housing. Anatolya RACHANSIAH to the first Deputy Attorney General, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for Land Dissappointment in the village of Gurzuf and Krasnoka, Deprivation of the rights of residents to privatize housing and land. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the office of the Attorney General on the inaction of the Attorney General’s Office regarding the illegal opening and functioning of branches of the Russian Federation’s higher educational institutions in Ukraine. Jury CARMAZIN under the responsibility of the Attorney-General, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of the Environment for the Prevention of Damage and the Destruction of the Unique Object of the Natural Command Fund by the officials of the Alupin National Palace-Parking Museum. Mr. Mikoli KUKARCHUKA under the Attorney General’s responsibility for ordering a retrial of a criminal case by the Provincial Prosecutor’s Office for the purpose of political pressure to direct the capital building of the Revensky Mishquikonkam. Mikoli KULČINSKI and Lilia GRIGOROVIĆ to the Deputy Attorney-General for the establishment of the truth in the attempt to bribe the judge of the Colombian District Court of Justice, Johno-Frankov. Groups of National Deputies under the responsibility of the Attorney-General, the Head of the Security Service to verify the laundering of dirty funds by the company Transalpina in Munich, which is the middleman between the recipients of the costs of the Krivrozke Metallurgical Combine and the Odessa Portal Plant, to which the National Deputy Rudzkowski relates. [[Non-chip, Tkalenko and others]] Igor ŠURMI to the head of the Ukrainian Secretary of State, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the provision of official information on the inter-State talks between Ukraine and Poland on the openings in Polish territory of the UN-OPA dead soldiers. A group of national deputies to the head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine for ignoring the President of Ukraine's mission to address citizens. [[CORSACKOV, HARA, COMAR]] Anatholic to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, First Deputy Attorney - General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Minister of Industrial Policy, Head of the State Property Fund, Head of the State Tax Administration for preventing the destruction of a unique venture of heavy crane construction in Odessa. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Minister of Interior, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the prosecutor of the Kyiv Region for the violation of the rights of the Pejivniks of the Preeyaslav-Hmielnick district consumer society by officials in the area. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the legality of the establishment of pensions and the granting of benefits to residents of Poltava Tetjani Litovchenko. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the award of a bus to the Motovilian School of Public Education in the province of Lubar. LEVEL GLUCHIVIH to the Ministry of Health for the purpose of trying to close the Novostrelstian Hospital in the district of Lviv. Igora SHAROVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council, for investigating the baseless detention and brutal beating of residents of the city of Kirovgrad Sergienko and for bringing to justice the officials of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd area responsible for the commission of this crime. Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, acting as Attorney-General for the improper performance of his duties as Fire Protectors of the City of Novograd Wallinski Žitomirsk. Anatoly of the DOMANS to the Minister of Internal Affairs in charge of the Attorney General’s duties, Head of the Board of Directors for the unlawful conduct of the head of the Alexandrian District State Administration of the Kirovograd region. GREGORY CALETNIKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the violation of citizens’ rights in the city of Wrinnitsk in connection with an unjustified change in the timetable for rail trains. Ms. Alexander Kiselova to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the regulation of the cross-section of the Ukrainian-Russian state border by local residents of the Lugansk region. RUSSIA’S Jury to the Ministry of Finance for Social Protection of Fire and Internal Affairs, who were directly involved in the fires at the Chernobyl AES and its security on April 26, 1986. Larissa VAZANKO to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for assisting the city of Ivano-Frankivsk in eliminating the consequences and preventing natural phenomena. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to the Minister of Justice on the need to consider withdrawing from registration for anti-State activities of the Alliance, Progressive Socialist, Communist and Brotherhood. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs concerning the establishment by police officers of obstacles to the exercise by citizens of the constitutional right to appeal to the authorities of the State. [[Samofalov, Zubanov, Rimaruk]] Jury SOLOMATANA to the Minister of Justice on the occasion of the multi-year mistreatment by the Minust Intervention of the Green Party in the Ukrainian Environmental Situation “Green World”. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Minister of Education and Science for Free Learning to a student of Kyiv National Aviation University of Natalia Slipuchini. Mikhail RODIONOV to the Minister of Justice on the legality of nearly double custody in the investigative isolation of student Doubiev, attracted for petty hooliganism, under the administration of 10 days of administration. Kirila POLIČUCA to the Ministry of Justice regarding the activities of the State executive of the Department of Forced Implementation of Decisions of the Department of State Executive Services of the Ministry of Justice. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the appropriateness of the legislation for obtaining a resource assembly in the registration and re-registration of means of transport in the Ministry of Internal Affairs’ registration and ex-examination units. Leonida DERKAČA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the situation that arose with the family farm Alekseieva in connection with the default of the Russian meat market. ALEXANDRA CRONOVOLENKA to the Minister of Justice on the prohibition of the pro-Russian extremist political parties, the Progressive Socialist Party and the Communist Party, whose actions during their anti-Ukrainian Sabbath on 15 October were aimed at eliminating Ukraine’s independence, violating its sovereignty and territorial integrity, promoting violence and inciting ethnic hatred and being accompanied by massive violations of Ukrainian rights and freedoms. MICHELLE TO THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERNAL CASES OF ROAD TRAVEL ACCOUNT, which took place on October 7th in the city of Deaf of the Suma Region, and led to the trauma and death of children. FOMENCO to the Minister for Coal Industry on how to provide fuel for coal-derived fuel. Mr. Viacheslav KOVALJA and Mr. Alexander TKALENKA to the Minister for Education and Science, Minister for Youth and Sports, Head of the Herson Observance for the financing of the construction work of the Scottish Children's and Youth Sports School. Larissa VACHENKO to the Ministry of Defence for the restoration of architecture to the municipal property of the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. To the Head of Kharkiv District State Administration, Vladimir CHAPPETIN, regarding housing for persons with disabilities as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Alexander KARENKA to the Head of the Head of the Central Intelligence Agency, Head of the Accounts Chamber, on unlawful receiving, purposeless use and other financial abuses with funds obtained as credit to banks “Credit – Dnipro” and “Krkgazbank” by the Rector of the Suma National Agrarian University. VICTOR ANTEMUCA to the Head of the Vinnick district government for the granting of family status to hostels with the right to privatize their homes. Philip BUŽDIGAN to the Head of the Montenegrin Regional Administration on the return of the debt on the salary of a citizen of the negric enterprise “P r o m o r h e p r v i s”. LUKJANKA’S lioness to the Head of the Board on the investigation of the activities of the “U i n e n e n t h e r o. ” Igor KALICKEN to the city’s Kiev head on the supply of the Oldwater Street. GMIR to the Head of the New York State Administration of the Lugansk Region for the completion of the gasification of the village of Petrenko. Jury RUCA to the Head of the State Road Service on integration into the international transport system. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Head of Czernigów District Administration on the gasification of the Industrien Street in the city of Koryukowka Chernigiv district. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulatory and Consumer Policy, Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the availability of signs of administrative intervention when posting an advertisement for the Vladimir Lithuania People's Block. [[CORRESPONDENT IN SINGING, MURDER, AND OTHERS]] Vladimir PETRENCA to the Head of the Suma District State Administration for the improvement of living conditions for residents of an emergency residence in the town of Krolevec Sumska district. Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the Kiev City Head, the Head of the State Committee on Religious Affairs, for obstructing the activities of the Missionary Evangelical and Charity Centre of the United Christian Churches of Ukraine “Word of Life” in carrying out its statutory tasks. Mr. Alexander TZORNOVOLEN to the Head of the Board for the criminalization of leaders of the anti - Ukrainian left forces and organizers of the Russian imperial Sabbath in Kiev on 15 October, accompanied by a massive violation of Ukrainian constitutional rights, public calls for a violent change and the overthrow of the constitutional system and an attack on Ukraine’s territorial integrity. Valery CONONOVALJUK and Vladimir DEMOCHIN to the Qualificational Commission of Judges of the General Court of Zaporozky’s Appeals District on the initiation of the issue of misconduct in disciplinary conduct and the involvement of a judge in the Holoprist District Court of the Hersson District in disciplinary responsibility. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgeting for the Construction of Water Management Networks in the Province of Constantine. LUKJANENKA left to the prosecutor of the Kharkiv district on the criminal activity of the head of the government of the closed stockholder association “8 March” of Belarus. Sergia GMIR to the District Attorney's Office of the Lugansk Region on the collection of debt on the salary of the citizens of the Desert from the State Open Shareholder Society, Antracitschachtobud. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Council of Judges of the Donetsk Region, the Donetsk District Qualificational Commission of Judges for the examination of the actions of judges of the Marín district court of the Donetsk district of Ponomarov. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the qualified commission of judges of the general court of Zaporozhye County of Appeal on the initiation of the issue of misconduct in disciplinary conduct and the disciplinary responsibility of the judge of the Holoprist district court of Hersson district of Popov. So 116 questions came in. The factions. The Communists of Ukraine are 30, the "Regions of Ukraine" -16, the People's Party - 6, "Our Ukraine" - 10, the Yulia Block Timoshenko - 7, the Socialist Party of Ukraine - 8, the Ukrainian People's Party - 4, the Social Democratic Party - 17, "Forward, Ukraine!" - 5, the People's Movement - 10, "Reforms and Orders" - 2, non-fractional - 11. [[united]] Dear colleagues, I ask those who have asked me now not to be offended, I will not announce them. I'm already tired of repeating that please ask in the proper order. And you, excuse me, signed, asked questions here and let the Chief take care of it. We'll go through the Rules first. The other one. Dear colleagues, I see on the question that we will soon be drafting our amendments to the bill with questions. Come on, let's go talk to our committees, though. We're not asking questions, we're making amendments to bills. Half, you see, one of the companies in the Odessa area, each of you wrote a letter and half of the deputies asked about the activity of this one company. And then we're offended by why they're answering us like that. That's how they tell us what it is. What is it? A mischievous man. Cibenka, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I had a big request for you, I didn't have my card, I didn't have a lot of registered cards when my request to the President and my request, and the whole room put it back on the vote and put it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u5	What do you want? Right. Zybenko, Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u6	Thank you, dear Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, just voted in favour of implementing the standards of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. He's got 217 votes. I understand that the fact that this document was not voted on in support of the declaration is just a misunderstanding. So I ask very much, on behalf of the faction, once again to put this document to the vote. I wouldn't ask if it were 100 votes. 217, that is, that is, a very high element of support for this document. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u7	Please, Widow Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'm at your suggestion for an order of inquiry. We have, in fact, parliamentary inquiries, actions have changed, rather than the MP turning to the organization he wants to address, he's doing so through the Supreme Council. But there is a certain order. The MP, as far as I can remember, our procedures should be addressed through the Supreme Council only if he is dissatisfied with the right answer. But you can, as head of the Supreme Council, as the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, when you receive your request, you can make a decision and say to the deputy that it does not meet the relevant rules and procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u9	I think that someday we're going to get to such a good life, we're going to put the right rules in the rules, even though they are, but we're going to have to be really, really careful to make a difference. And now they're none of them, you're absolutely right, Gennady Josephovich, you say they've turned, but that's what they think they're asking, and we've been spending so much time with you. Now, everything will be in accordance with the Rules. Who's to go back to voting? We supported his request, but he was sent to the President of the National Deputies' request by the People's Deputies of Neciporek and others to examine the facts of the laundering of dirty funds by the company Transalpina in Munich, which is the middleman between the recipients of the costs of the Crevice Metallurgical and Odessa Transport Plant, to which the National Deputy of Ukraine Rudzkowski relates. Please vote. [[10:46:14]] For 277 We're back. Who's in favour of answering the President's request, please vote. [[10:46:39]] For 297 Supported. Who, in order to return to the vote on Solomatin’s request, Alexeieva, Gerasimov, to send to the President of Ukraine about the inadequacy of the actions of the highest officials of the State declared in the Declaration on Ukraine’s State Sovereignty, the Ukraine’s Declaration of Independence Act for the purposes confirmed by the will of the people in the Universal Referendum on December 1, 1991, to be a permanent neutral, non-nuclear and non-nuclear state. Please vote. [[10:47:31]] For 205 Not supported. The factions? Please. Communists - 55, Party of the Regions - 45, National Party - 26, Our Ukraine - 0, Block of Timoshenko - 0, Socialist Party - 15, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Forward, Ukraine! - 20, Social Democrats - 19, One Ukraine - 2, Reforms and Orders, and National Movement - Zero, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, non-fractional - 11. This is about not being dragged into the blocks, and we want to be. Well, it's our will. Rather, the people will decide in a referendum. Yes, and here was Volinec, who said their request was the first, their request was the first, they did not orientate, to return to the question of the request of Volinz, Zvetz, Seminogue to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation that took place at the state-owned company Kyiv Aviation Company Aminant. Who's to come back, please make up your mind. [[10:48:48]] For 175 We're not back. Yes, dear colleagues, instead of 30 minutes, we spent 49. If it's your will to work without interruption, we'll use 30 minutes to perform. No breaks? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to announce the offer again: if we work without interruptions, I'm going to give you 30 minutes for the performance. Okay. Yes, please show again on the monitors of those who have signed up. 30 minutes, please. John Gerasimov, a faction of Communists. Behind him is Igor Sharov. Ah, Sharov passed on the word to Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u10	The Communist faction, Gerasimov. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! I have been asked by the leaders of the Kremenec Regional Council of the Luhansk region veterans to make their appeal to the President of the country of Yushchenko at the session of the Supreme Council. The address states that the public of the region and, above all, the veterans of the Great Homeland War are outraged by the conduct of the first Vice-President of the Luhansk oblast Administration, Zinovia Guzar, who, during a visit to the Slavo-Serbian Regional Museum in the history room of the Great Homeland War, pointed to the helmet of a German soldier, said to those present: “These are the good guys who carried the civilization to Ukraine.” After pointing to the helmet of a Soviet soldier, he said, “And these are the bandits. They raped women and burned the bellies of pregnant women." Respectable people's deputies, this vicious slander against a Soviet soldier, an open-minded neofascism expressed by public servants. We can be sure that Guzar expressed the view of those Ukrainian outlaws who met fascists with salt in the distant 1941s, serving them in every way, and today they are trying to expose themselves to the defenses of the people against fascist enslavement. My people and not only our country remember their atrocities and will never forgive these atrocities without repentance. The position of the emissary and his like shows that the millions of victims of war, the decisions of the Nuremberg Process condemning fascism for centuries, are not convincing. It is not an example to them that the world has recognized the outstanding merits of the Soviet soldier, the act of a Soviet soldier for the protection of its people, the protection and liberation of the peoples of Europe, which has resulted in monuments to a soldier in many countries, including Ukraine. A Soviet liberator soldier. In today's world, the idea of reviewing the outcome of the Great Homeland War and the Second World War and neo-fascism is not new. And this statement could be seen as a sick person's delusion, if not for two very significant circumstances: first, it was a public official with great public authority; and secondly, the remarks of this poor leader said that he had merely echoed the position of the President trying to reconcile war veterans with the UN-OPA soldiers. Don't you agree? It's not a very strange way of reconciliation. The veterans of the Kremenchug region of Lugansk Region require the President: the first is to withdraw.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u11	I repeat: all in equal conditions. Now everyone wants to finish. Don't wave your hands! Finish up, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u12	To remove Guzarro from his position as a man who defiles a great man, recognized by all mankind as a Soviet soldier, and who preaches neo-fascist views. In view of the fact that this incident has become a public domain through the media, it is clear to the people whether the President truly shares Guzard's words. The Council of Veterans supports this requirement. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u13	Sharov passes the word to Anatoly Frost. Get Gurvo ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u14	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region, Volodymyr Mihajlovich Litvina. Dear colleagues, since 1995 an epidemic of tuberculosis has been declared in Ukraine. Despite all the efforts of the State, the epidemic continues to spread rapidly. President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine identified this disease as one of the government’s priorities. On May 17, 2005, the country’s Tuberculosis Control Coordination Board was established. But unfortunately, today, the review committee has never begun its work, for the Cabinet of Ministers has not approved its work by its decree. Taking into account the rapid spread of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, and taking into account the difficult situation in Ukraine, please: First. Speed up development, harmonization and approval in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine of a state-wide tuberculosis control programme in Ukraine for the years 2006-2010, which will be amended in December 2005. The other one. Agree with Ukraine's 2006 state-wide TB control programme, develop a short-term programme for 2006 and align it with Ukraine's government budget. Third. Identify the real state of supply of anti-tuberculosis drugs for treatment facilities, take urgent measures to recompile treatment facilities with first and second rows anti-tuberculosis drugs to prevent manual resistant tuberculosis. Four. Approve, by decree, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the country's Coordinating Council for the Control of Tuberculosis, as a separate body, which should take full responsibility for coordinating the activities of State, non-State and international organizations to deal with tuberculosis. Fifth. With a view to increasing the effectiveness and effectiveness of the country's focal point for the control of tuberculosis, it is being shaved according to the current order of one of the vice-premiers, with the Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine. Six. Effective reform of the structure of the relevant anti-tuberculosis service through the creation of a separate Department for the Fight against the Tuberculosis Epidemic and direct subordination of the respective deputy minister, and the staffing of this unit. Seven. To hold parliamentary hearings and a Government Day to consider overcoming the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, preserving the lives and health of the Ukrainian people, it is desirable to do so in March of the global day of the fight against tuberculosis. Therefore, honourable colleagues, Mr Adam Ivanovich, please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine and Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u15	Please, Vadim Gurov, prepare Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u16	Vadim Gurov, Lithuanian People's Party faction, Krivbass. Respectable colleagues! I've had heartache for two weeks listening to the "Criminals" training. And I thought that we, the legislators, could afford to waste two weeks of time instead of making a decision. A serious issue. Well, can a decree break the law? What we fought three days ago, we had to make a decision. Isn't it the law if the president says what you want, take it, he'll be sworn in. And we lost two weeks. Of course, the socialist party has proliferated this case with so much force that I can no longer imagine prying as much as possible. Now, I'm being called from Creatures and they say, here are you wise people, do you think you're a working group of fools? You're telling me that he doesn't need to be privatized, that he should be public, then Gurov is told to explain what a State is about to cry? And they say it's Vala Seminouk. This is the whole state. See what you can do. Here's an order from the Cabinet of Ministers called "To form an interdisciplinary working group". Who's her chairman? Parfenenko, Deputy Head of the Property Fund, head of the group. The rest are sixes. Are we still looking at who's chairman of the monitoring board? Petrov. Who's that? First Deputy to Semenyuk? Who's that? A socialist. So you want that and Semenyuk, including someone else commanding the parade. You're adults, and you know who has the power, that's all. And now it's justified. Yesterday I heard this broadcast, at 10: 20 p.m., and the socialist tells stories that they were given 50,000 each so they wouldn't vote. Don't those fools who gave you realize it's an empty sound? Well, that's what went wrong with our parliament. Because he stated and the stain rests on the entire Parliament, that every vote is bound to be paid for. It can't be like that. That is not true in this situation. Now I want to say one thing. What we've been saying for two weeks is an empty sound. We should have talked about who was coming. 24 contests will be held. Three firms will come, and we had to figure out what they represent, each firm, and give their opinion. If "Michael-style" comes, this is not just for "Criminal" but for the metal complex. But we didn't say a word about it. It's either special, or it's inconceivable. You have to come and eat, and our manufacturer will come. There was a normal manufacturer, destroyed, and so was now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u17	Thank you. Vitaly Corge. He's got the word "Shurma" after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u19	Thank you. Sergey Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Taking advantage of the opportunity, I would like to draw your and the government’s attention once again to the fact that there is a real threat to the spread of the epidemic in Ukraine, which can lead to lethal consequences among the population and the massive material damage. Despite the complex epizootic situation, in most countries of the world, Ukraine has maintained a stable controlled situation regarding the most dangerous animal diseases. This has become possible because the state has an effective state system of veterinary medicine, which has been fully preserved. The service has the necessary material and technical base, 90% provided by domestic medicine, special legislation. The state operates a system of ventilators led by a central laboratory accredited for Eurostandarts. The service is headed by Peter Ivanovich Verbicki, elected Secretary-General of the Commission of the Epizootic Bureau in Europe, an organization that includes 169 countries around the world, which is an international recognition of the level of veterinary service in Ukraine, which is made up of highly qualified professionals at all levels. In view of the above, it could be expected that they will take all the necessary measures to prevent avian influenza and, if a disease develops, to effectively localize it. Although little is surprising in Ukraine, there are still miracles. And last but not least, the struggle against the threat of chicken trouble was led by the minister of agrarian politics himself, the agronomist, Alexander Baranowski. He has already made a personal visit to Romania’s hot spot. On the way, he set out that the wheels of cars were being miswashed on the border, and the media was active in explaining how to eat fried bird meat, and he held a meeting with the Odessa branch office, without having to take part in the management of the Department of Veterinary Medicine. Forced him to file an application for a vacation, with the following release, Peter Verbicki. I want to warn the Prime Minister of Ukraine that such a primitive approach, in solving an extremely serious problem, can lead to unpredictable consequences and remind professionals to solve any problem. And Mr. Minister, to the agronomist, I would like to say that the effectiveness of his work on this issue can be compared to a map of longnoses in the beet field. You can't destroy what works and what you didn't do. Under these circumstances, the responsibility for organizing arrangements for the prevention of avian influenza lies with the Minister of Baranovsky himself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u20	Igor Šurma, Kaletnik handed it over to him, followed by Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u21	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I call on all in attendance, from the audience, to bring to them the trouble that residents of the town of Sosniuka, the Socal region of Lviv, cannot afford. The pine tree is a population site located near the mining town of Redwood, which, in its own time, sadly surprised Ukraine, because that is where the tragedy occurred when tens of hundreds of children were diagnosed with fluorose(?) And, in fact, those children became disabled. Sleepwalking is one of the most ecologically dangerous areas not only in Lvivščina but also in Ukraine, where heavy metals are found in the living organisms as a result of the uncontrolled operation of the Central Enriching Factory. Recently, I was surprised to learn something very interesting. As my colleague Peter Diminsky stated at the Persian conference, this factory belongs to the former city head of Redwood, and now to Lviv Governor Peter Olijnik. According to the initial group, the diseases that are constantly present there, oncosa, osteoporosis, and osteoporosis have become undeniable attributes of the population. Yet this is not enough to save local officials, so they moved on. In 2003, the property of the Sosnov City Hospital, without the consent of the community, was transferred to the community of the Lviv District Council to the joint property of the territorial communities. I would like to point out that such a decision was made not by the MPs of the Sosnov City Council, but by the Red Cross, who was successfully led and led by the city's head, Vereznik, the Yushchenko Political Party Block of “Our Ukraine” dedicated to Peter Oliynik. This decision violated 143 articles of the Constitution. The result of these equipment was the opening of the center, and more simply the TB dispenser, which was subjected to a gross violation of all sanitary requirements and is a fact of crime, in fact, in front of the inhabitants of Sosnovka. On the basis of my appeal to the representatives of the territorial community of Sosnovka, which requires immediate restitution of illegally occupied premises. I'm calling on the Attorney General's Office to investigate the legality of the decision of the Red Cross City Council to transfer the premises of the Sosnov Hospital to the municipal property of the Lviv District Council. To the common property of the territorial communities. I'm asking you to give a legal assessment of these actions, and I'm asking the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to create a special commission to conclude that the health and health requirements are met and that it is appropriate to create a district hospital for re-medication. I ask the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, to give political and moral assessment to the actions of his governor in the Lviv region of Peter Oliynik, whose business as a central enrichment plant in Sosnovka's territory has turned this city into an ecological disaster zone. And thousands of people are at risk of life. It was in this district that Olionik was a national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u22	Vladimir Puzkov, Communist faction. Bronnnikov gives the word to Leluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u23	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The 8th month of the team of the Alexandrian TEC is under the constant aim of indifference, cynicism, abuse by employers of the company Exp.Eren. The board games of the company have led to the fact that this business has become harmless and that more than 500 workers are not needed by anyone. They don't pay their salary for eight months. Their appeals to all the institutions, starting with the Kabmin and the Heprocuratorship, as always, gave nothing. Today, when the heating season should begin, the company is not ready to start it. Residents and labor groups in Alexandria are concerned about this state of affairs. From all over, the TEC team is urged to start the heating season, and a critical situation has arisen in the city. How can this work force be? The hungry are no longer able to work, for for eight months, people crossed from water to bread, and from systematic malnutrition, they lost consciousness in a workplace where even two died of hunger. So, is it not the jushchenkov ladies and nasties, the famine of your power? Where can it be seen that a man who works is so ruthlessly destroyed? This has only become possible in a democratic, independent Ukraine where a human being has become a wolf. The "good" employers decided to throw the edible bone out of their bar table in the form of debt repayment, and within three months they paid a salary of 101 bracelets 20 copies instead of at least a minimum. That's what TEC employees got paid in three winter months when it was a busy time of work. How could these people live for these shorts? Of course not. Even with enthusiasm for the hungry and robbed, it is not possible to work. And of this, the orange authorities do not conclude, but the disaster is worse, and educational and medical institutions and 17,000 residents of the village of Yellow and Victory are at risk. Mr. President, it's time to change travel courses, time to travel your country, all the more so that the election isn't coming up, and learn the oath you'll make in the election with your team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u24	The stork. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u25	Alexei Leluk, Poltavska oblast, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear People's Deputies, the faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” party considers it necessary to draw your attention to the facts that have emerged in the country in the Supreme Council for the past few months. The search for enemies, the persecution of opponents, the witch hunt covered all the information space in Ukraine. The people tried to share the views and support of a candidate in the past presidential elections. The challenges to television interviews, anger and self-satisfaction from the sudden collapse of power and law enforcement powers were all over the country, and it seemed that this could be diverted from the real economic and political problems divided by the country's vote. Some people's electorates, using their positions of office, have taken up the task of law enforcement authorities on behalf of the State, since in the current political superiority, there is always a desire to secure economic security. For example, the Secretary of the Committee on Anti-Corruption and Crime of Karnauh has not submitted to the Committee for a period of several months on behalf of the Committee on Anti-Corruption and Signatories to the General Prosecutor's Office, the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Government telegrams with information that distorts the activities of the Poltava-gas enterprise, discrediting me as a national deputy, demanding that business checks be carried out immediately and that officials allegedly allowing financial abuse and dispersion of the household be held accountable. On three occasions, the Public Prosecutor's Office refused to initiate a criminal case, but under the pressure of the Committee, the case was instituted. In the Poltava region, a special task force is established to investigate the activities of the Poltava Gas Department, which includes the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Office of Internal Affairs. Search, interrogation, seizure and threats to business leaders are being carried out for several months, with the help of special units of the Falcon. After the management of the enterprise had to consider the issue on the Committee on Corruption, a unanimous decision had been taken to withdraw all letters and telegrams, since the Committee had not sent them. However, owing to the refusal of Secretary Karnauha to sign the minutes of the meeting, the decision did not become definitively ligitimate. At the next meeting of the Committee, as the criminal case against officials of Poltava-gas was dealt with the day before, the Committee decided that it would not be possible for the Secretary to repeat such actions in the future. An assessment of the MP's actions was commissioned by the Committee on Rules and MPs, who, in turn, unanimously acknowledged that there had been a lack of authority on the part of Deputy Karnauh. During the six months of the investigation, no illegal acts were found by officials of the Poltava Gas Department currently operating. Criminal cases are closed because of the absence of the offence, in accordance with article 6, paragraph 2, of CPC Ukraine. The officials responsible for the early opening of the case shall give evidence in the court where the business has gone. But there was no responsibility for the initiator hiding behind the parliamentary mandate, who had actually forged documents on behalf of the Committee that continued in no way to serve as Secretary of the Committee, who had not publicly apologized to the 3,000-year-old group of enterprises, before me as a people's MP for trying to discredit and groundless accusations. The faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” party calls upon the people's deputies with broad parliamentary powers to prevent such acts from being committed by discrediting the Supreme Council, the Committee on Corruption and to cease to involve law enforcement authorities in political opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u26	Please, Oleg Belarus. After him, Rahansky. To whom should I give the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u27	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Tomorrow, October 22, there will be a great young Jubilee of the great Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian spirit of Boris Ilchi Oliynik. We want him. Tomorrow we will wish him "many summers", "happiness, health," and that he does not strain and work for Ukraine for up to 100 years as a minimum. And now I want to give him the word in the order of the previous souvenir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u28	Please. Oleg, they say you can't do this in advance. Please, Boris Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u29	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. You really took up a lot of time. Then let's do it. Dear colleagues, I'll start with a quote. I am. Dear friends, help us fight this, we can only fight it in peace. In Poltava, explosives have been dropped in the area's children's library. The premises were reselled three times, and they became the object of the battle against the intelligence of the city and the criminal world. To close the problem permanently on October 11, the library was set on fire. Now there is one step to evicting for the benefit of the new owners. I have made this tragic call to my countrymen, and I appeal to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Yuri Ivanovich Lucenka, to the head of the Poltava administration, Stepan Stepanovich Bulby, to pay particular attention to this act. Because this act of planned fire not only testifies to subterranean vandalism – it is an open challenge for the mafia not only to the Polish authorities but also to the authorities at large. And when these criminals don't get punished, it's a signal that the state is based on a mine of destruction. In my own time, I tried to pay attention to my work entitled “Who Rules Us?” And now you see who's in charge of us without my research. Please respond immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u30	Please, Anatoly Rahansky. After him, Prowsky. No Rahansky? Please, Mikola Porowski. Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u31	The People's Trust Group. The Republican Christian Party. Dear fellow MPs, there is a problem in Ukraine of electrifying remote villages, as well as remote rural buildings, hunting farms, newly built streets, villages. In the Plain region alone, according to a letter from the district government, there is an urgent need for electricity to be run for a hundred miles [150 km]. And the cost of these electricity lines is about eight million dollars. In Ukraine as a whole, this problem is bigger, more valuable. And yet, in the State budget this year, no bracelets have been installed for the electrification of newly built streets, villages, and hunting farms. And the 2006 Debate project also does not provide funds for these problems. The solution lies on the shoulders and on the purse of a villager, who is still in unequal conditions compared to a city dweller who has all the utilities. I would like to turn from this high rostrum to the government, to the Committee on the Budget of the Supreme Council, asking to provide in the State Budget for the year 2000 the necessary funds for the electrification of hunting farms that are isolated from rural villages, as well as new streets, villages. I ask you to consider my speech as a parliamentary address. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u32	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u33	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! The events of October 15 on Chrystec were a great resonance in Ukraine. Not only in Ukraine, but also in the world’s Ukrainian public. I would like to introduce you to this address of the World Assembly of Ukrainians. The World Congress of Ukrainians addressed the President of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council with the request to reopen the UPA parade to the Maydan Independence. In his address, the World Society of Ukrainians claims that recent events in Khrestatika, in connection with the celebration of the UN-UPA Veterans' Festival, have caused deep concern not only for the patriots of Ukraine but also in the Ukrainian diaspora. The World Congress is concerned about the negative attitude in Ukraine towards U.N.-UPA soldiers of loyal fighters for the independence of the Ukrainian State. The most incomprehensible thing for us is the refusal of the city's Kiev-based UN-OPA troops to conduct a parade on the Maidan Independence, and at the same time the permission to engage in a contract with the pro-promotional groups. Little wonder, then, that city police units failed to protect a column of UN-UPA veterans from the attack and thus allowed Moscow supporters not to mock religious and national festivities. In our opinion, these shameful events in the capital of an independent state in the 15th year of its existence have exacerbated the already painful question of the history of Ukraine, which can only be solved by its immediate consideration at the state level. The World Congress of Ukrainians believes that the time has come for the President of Ukraine and for the Head of the Supreme Council to express unequivocally the support of UN-OPA soldiers, pointing to the tragic pages of our people's history and the leading role of the UN-OPA in the revival of the Ukrainian nation in the liberation races of the thirties and fifties. In view of the above, we believe that it would be appropriate for the initiative of the President of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and with them to host a re-adventure that would start in Krestatika and end on the Mayan of Independence in honor of the veterans of the liberating struggle, the UN-UPA soldiers who fought against the various invaders of Ukraine. The address was signed by the president of the World Congress, Asold Lozinsky and General Secretary, Victor Phydenko. And in this context, I want to say that this issue will now be considered, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Head of the Bureau will be heard. I attended a meeting held at the Kyiv State Administration and representatives of the National Democratic Forces agreed to postpone the celebrations in connection with the UPA. Representatives of Communists and SPIs provocatively said that they would move their action at the same time. They interfered with the holding of this action and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u34	Yes, two of our colleagues are dissatisfied with the answers they received at the parliamentary request. Please, Alexander Tkalenko, three minutes, and Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine At the September 9th plenary meeting, my request to the Attorney General of Ukraine was made for the provision of unreliable information to the Office of the Attorney-General by officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the verification of the claims made by Policchuk, the village of Tokarovka in the region of Herson. In response to a request, Deputy Attorney General Alexander Medvedko twists the contents of the request and classifies it as a plea for unwarranted involvement of the latter in criminal responsibility and some other matters. The actual contents of the query are ignored. In fact, this citizen, for several years, has been subjected to strong pressure from the law - enforcement authorities in the area of Belarus. Three criminal cases were committed against her, despite the fact that she was fully executed by the Master’s Court. All claims made by Polishtuk to the law enforcement authorities, the Attorney General's Office, regarding the theft of her property, the violation of her rights, have been ignored and given a proper response. In fact, this is confirmed by the Deputy Attorney-General himself, reporting, inter alia, the annulment of the decisions made by the Attorney-General's Office, since the facts were not fully verified. It is surprising that, in his response to the Supreme Council, the Deputy Attorney General did not speak in any words about the punishments of officials who carried out these checks to the full. Moreover, in the Supreme Council, I quote: “The Ukrainian National Deputy has no right to refer to the authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office with demands, suggestions or instructions on specific matters, as well as to the prosecution’s investigators, on questions of judicial investigation in specific matters. I believe that this position of the Attorney General shows that corporate interests and the honour of the uniform are more important to her than the fate of the person whose rights they are obliged to defend, according to the Constitution of Ukraine. Regrettably, these are unique cases of the irresponsible attitude of the officials of the prosecutor’s office toward their duties. This is evidenced by, among other things, the recent request of National Deputy Gregory Bondarenko to bring the former prosecutor of Kiev to justice and to provide unreliable information on his parliamentary request. This is also the destruction of the private store of Sotnik's entrepreneur in Hersson, which is 50 grand's worth of sales. The money of the trading complex is a balance of almost a million dollars from the entrepreneur of the New Kakhovka Yuri Lashenko, who twice attempted to burn himself under the walls of the Supreme Council. I note the inadmissibility of ignoring the constitutional rights of the Ukrainian national deputy in obtaining the necessary and reliable information from the law enforcement authorities, since this is the way in which the rights of the electorate, our fellow citizens, are being raised. Please consider this as my re-deputy request to the Attorney General's Office, and I suggest that Parliamentary hearings be held shortly on the matter of the relationship of the deputy corps with the law enforcement authorities in the matter of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u36	That's all right, but maybe we should create another prosecutor's office to consider our references. Because 60% of what we're talking about is basically we're sending it to the D.A.'s office. Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u37	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] On 9 September last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act on Restructuring Debt from Payments under the 57th Article of the Ukrainian Education Act, initiated by the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] This law recognizes the debt owed to the education community as a public and forms a payment mechanism through monthly payments, along with the current salary. The famous Ukrainian governors, as one, reported that payments would be made, and the payments would begin in October. And then there's no way, after the coming of the corresponding subsidies from the state budget of Ukraine. And then, with the subsidies, there's something that's not clear. Minfin claims that on October 1st the mentioned subsidy is listed in full volume, so the answers of most governors, by the way, after the 10th number, indicate otherwise, the money is expected to be two questions: where is the truth, and where is the money? However, the faction’s dissatisfaction with the answers is not limited to the obvious confusion in the conduct of legal payments. The payments will be, we are convinced that the Supreme Council will be able to force the authorities to do so. On the other hand, the implementation of the 57 - article law proves that financing education for the authorities remains a matter of no priority. Investment in education is an investment in the future. That's nice of you to say, but trouble is what you're saying. For example, in the 57th article, the 57th article was mentioned only at the end of the year. And the officials of the new government, who began with the President, immediately thought of themselves. Just came into the office, immediately increased their salary by tens of times. Judging by the size of the salary, the minister, the governor, the head of the administration, be prestigious and highly prestigious. What about the prestige of the teacher’s profession? The answer to that question was clear, considering how debt and the desire to eliminate the teaching benefits in the 2006 budget came back. In fact, underfunding education is not just a small wage for teachers -- it's stimulating constant defeats, increasing the share of paid education, and ultimately it's corruption and bribery. What's the answer? It's simple. Society must force the authorities to enforce the laws in the field of education in full measure. We demand that the Minister of Finance and Science be held accountable. And then, Mr. President, you were addicted to life in travel cards. You may take advantage of this experience in the 57 - article law. The Faction of the SDP requires not only the authorities to make a clear position in ensuring that the requirements of this law are met under article 57 but also by working out a clear and clear schedule of repayments and compliance with the requirements of the law on monthly payments. Please consider my statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, we are approaching the completion of our requests, our announcements. I'll make some more inquiries. Kuzmuk’s request to the Chief of State Service at the Cabinet of Ministers to provide clarifications on compliance with the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence regarding the conditions for citizens to exercise their rights to public service as determined by the current Ukrainian legislation. Roswadowski is the Minister of Education and Science for the Lingafone Offices of the Romanian Gymnasium of Žitomirščina. Shershun, Samowovski, to the Prime Minister for the urgent financing of the construction of a children's town in the village of Alexander the Ravens. Igora Šurm is to the Attorney General and Head of the State Committee on the illegal seizure of the profit territory of building 22 on the street of Jaroslavenko in Lviv. Rozwadowski is the Minister of Education for Computer Deployment to rural schools in the Red Army region of the Žitomir Region. Yes, four factions want breaks: factions of socialists and BUITs. Ready to go? Please, John Bokky microphone. John Boko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to one very dangerous trend. It seems that the most noticeable feature of Ukrainian politics is fanfaronism. A year ago, on October 18, 2004, a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, Yushchenko, published his draft decree on the withdrawal of troops from the Republic of Iraq. In it he promised to withdraw the Ukrainian military contingent from Iraq immediately after his election to the presidency. On March 1, this year, the National Security and Defence Council, under the President’s vote, approved the removal of our troops from Iraq, not immediately, but by October 15. October 15 is over, and our boys are staying in Iraq. Such things in the people are called Russian "stupidness", which in our sense sounds like "smoke" and in fact it is pure water of fanfaronism. When the vote was needed, Viktor Andriyovich promised everything, and when he received it, he forgot everything he had promised. The new President's staff policy is marked by fanfaronism. You can analyze some of his assignments, so it could be a material for a new genius comedy. It's a shame we don't have Caroque and Alexi Colomiac right now. Some comedian appointments are worth two of the last ministers of culture! It's the only thing growing out of this comedy is the tragedy of Ukrainian culture. The role of marriages, besties, fellow countrymen in Cardian politics has yet to be added to the role of friends and collectors. To the point, after the events in the archives of the lions, a good study of the nature of the collection in Ukraine is needed. But that's not what I'm talking about. Collectors told the President how to get rid of the director of the Museum of Shevchenk, an intellectual, and how to introduce a regular tour guide to this role. What is not new fanfaronism? Regrettably, such fanfare is pervading the political life of the State. That's what we saw yesterday from the content of the State Budget, that's what we saw yesterday, and we're discussing the privatization of the Crusades. The new team, with its favorite pay-and-retirement song and its inability to manage it, launches a factory that can't be released from government hands. It is a pity that our decision has not been determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, who has approved his sale, but by the Fund of Property. They found what they call extreme. It's also fanfaranism, if you'll excuse me. There was a national deputy here yesterday, by the way, generously quoted the deputy minister of industrial politics, slandering the head of the holding fund, Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk. So yesterday, the President just got him out of office. And I would very much like to hear the deputy’s opinion that he is now thinking in connection with such an event. Fanfaronism, unfortunately, can lead us to pharaohry. The distance is too close to him, and it's just as scary for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u40	Yes, communists, social-democracy. Who's speaking? Sergei Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u41	Thank you. I will continue to speak a little further to the previous colleague. Yesterday, in the presence of the President of the Valentina Semenyuk Foundation, the Socialist Party reported on the need for the privatization of Krivoroztali. This question raises very serious doubts in our society. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has, as is known, decided to suspend the tender for the sale of this strategically important enterprise for our economy. Under the Constitution and Ukrainian laws, the Chairman of the Statehood Fund is obliged to comply with this Supreme Council decision. It is his constitutional duty. Unfortunately, Valentina Seminouk has in fact refused to comply with the legitimate decision of the legitimate authority. This is where the last colleague said we were looking for the ultimate. That the Cabinet of Ministers is responsible for all of this. If that is the case, and if the Chairman of the Solidarity Fund is an honest man and an honest party, Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk is, in our view, obliged to resign. If she doesn't resign, let's all help her get out of the difficult situation she's in, because otherwise everyone in Ukraine can think that Valentina Seminouk and the Socialist Party are evil. Let's not let this happen! A number of factions therefore make a draft decree to express mistrust to the Chairman of the State Property Fund. There is an opportunity to save its honour by resigning immediately in protest against the criminal policy of the current authorities, which sells out what has not been sold over the past 14 years. Let us vote for this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the list of issues to be discussed today, you have, we will move on to their implementation. First of all, according to the decree adopted, is information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service and the Attorney-General's Office on the events that took place on 15 October 2005 on Krestetstyk Street and Majdani Independence. This is the committee's policy: information from the Minister of Interior - 10 minutes, answers to questions - 10 minutes, information from the Security Service - 5 minutes, seven - answers to questions, the Attorney General's Office the same - five minutes of information and seven answers. So 45 minutes, as is the order. This is information, there will be no discussion. Yes, Yuri Vitaliovich, please. Dear colleagues, there's, as far as I know, a proposal to show video material, right, Yuri Vitaliyovich? But we agreed that this would be decided by the Supreme Council. So I put it to a vote: who's in charge of using video material during the interview? Please vote. [[11:37:15]] For 269 Decision taken. Please, the "Council" system is ready. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! It is known that the police are called upon to protect public order and the rights of citizens, regardless of their political preferences. This was the basis for the construction of the work in Kiev on October 15, 2005, when a number of political parties and public associations were involved. As planned, the Association of Ukrainian Officers, the All-Ukrainian Veterans Union, the UN-UPA All-Ukrainian Brotherhood, the Cossack Organizations intended to celebrate the Festival of the Holy Goddess, the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks, and the 63rd anniversary of the formation of the Ukrainian rebel army, involving up to 2,000 people. These measures, according to the requirements of article 39 of the Constitution, were reported to the Kyiv City Administration on October 1. On the same day, on October 15th, the Progressive Socialist Party, the Communist Party, the All-Ukrainian Union of Orthodox Citizens of Ukraine and a number of other social organizations announced a demonstration and a rally under the slogan “Protect the Soviet Soldiers of Liberators!” and “No UN-UPA rehabilitation and their route to Hristika!” The number of participants is 6,000. This was reported to the Kyiv City Administration in October 5. Since the planned arrangements coincided at the time and place, and their participants had a contrasting view of historical events, the management of the Kyiv City State Administration held a meeting on October 11 with the participation of the organizers of these actions and representatives of the law enforcement agencies. Taking into account previous experience, it was suggested that these arrangements be carried out at the time or place. Yet the organizers did not agree. Then, in accordance with article 39, part 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine, in order to protect human rights and freedoms, to prevent possible collisions in the interests of national security, public order, the Kiev City State Administration applied to the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev for a restriction on mass action by banning them. On October 14th, the court refused to satisfy this claim. The same collision became inevitable. To ensure the public order and security of citizens at the site of the planned measures, the Kyiv militia conducted a reckoning of the forces and means. More than 2,000 internal affairs officials were directly involved in the maintenance of the rule of law and a similar two-thousand reserve was created. I note that all of them were dismissed from carrying out their ministry in places of battle in Kiev. There have been working meetings of the IMF’s leadership in Kiev with mass action organizers, and the police have particularly highlighted the requirements for avoiding provocative actions that could exacerbate the situation. In fact, the same work was carried out constantly during the campaign. Thus, internal affairs agencies have previously taken all possible measures to avoid any undesirable consequences, but by our will, people have the right to take action, and the court has refused to prohibit them. All planned actions began on October 15th in Krestatika in Bessarab Square with representatives of KPU, the All-Ukrainian Union of Soviet Officers and the All-Ukrainian Social Movement for the Soviet Union. On the opposite side of the Besarab market, representatives of the Ukrainian National Workers' Party, the All-Ukrainian Veterans' Union, Unsovci, the All-Ukrainian Brotherhood of UN-UPA soldiers and other organizations. On the street of Khreshtick near the house 42 representatives of the All-U.S. Union of Progressive Social Workers, Confederate and Ukrainian Works, etc. At the monument of Independence, representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the All-Ukrainian Workers' Union, the Union of Orthodox Brethren of Ukraine, the Youth Union of the Pores, and so on. Representatives of the Ukrainian National Labour Party united Freedom, the Ukrainian People’s Party, a coalition of participants in the “orange revolution ” gathered at the head post. By this time, police equipment had been installed to ensure the rule of law. At 10:40 a.m., a hundred representatives of the Kyiv City’s POW blocked the roadblock of Hristetica at the level of House 29 to prevent right - hand traffic. At 11: 30 p.m., she was immediately localized by members of the police, who were acting in full, exact conformity with the law. For about 12 hours, citizens with the symbolism of the PSP, the Company and its supporters, who were on the Maidan of Independence in response to Vitrenco’s calls, covered the roadside of the Khreshticki Street. Some of them broke the militia's chains near the head post office building and clashed with UPA supporters. These actions were accompanied by PSP activists with images, by throwing UPA-friendly bags of milk, eggs, and on the right hand side pieces of plastic and the same eggs. Shareholders on both sides tried to start new conflicts several times in the future. Thanks. In particular, protestors with the symbol of the PSP organized a fight with 20 members of the Gomin choir and 20 members of the KUN who wanted to cross the Hristack to join with their supporters at the head post. Again, packets of cefir, eggs, blue paint, flag racks, banners, and so forth were used. Thanks to the timely intervention of militia personnel, further expansion was halted. In particular, I emphasize that the organizers of the mass stock on both sides should have been and had a real opportunity to manage their groups. To that end, they had appropriate technical equipment — loudspeakers, sound-enhancing equipment. On the contrary, however, they called their supporters to group opposition. Yes, the leader of the Sevastopol Dochin Public Association called on those present to "be representatives of the UN-OPA and clean hands on the face of the impurities". The quote. As a result, groups of citizens resorted to mutual images and physical conflicts by undirected organizers who gave appropriate guarantees on applications. In order not to allow collisions and uncontrolled developments to secure public order by employees of internal affairs bodies within the scope of competence under Article 20 of the Law on the Police, citizens were temporarily restricted access to separate sections of the streets of Krestátík and Majdan of independence by placing barrier chains. In total, 6 persons were detained during the events and were taken to the internal affairs authorities. They are all drawn to administrative responsibility for petty bullying. In addition, according to the fact that there is a group violation of public order, article 293 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is a group violation of public order, and a criminal case has been violated by the police. The investigation is ongoing. In terms of the number of victims, two individuals, the inhabitants of Dnipropetrovsk and the Kyiv region, sought medical assistance. One has a broken nose, the other has an adrenal arc. He hospitalized them, they refused, the internal affairs authorities did not apply. I would like to say that the events that took place on 15 October in the Christian Church indicate that there is no political culture in the environment of the leaders of the Ukrainian parties. There's been an abnormal practice where politicians, at first, refuse any compromise, do everything they can to make conflicts inevitable, and then actively blame the city's leadership and the police for all their sins. In addition, they are required to report why these conflicts were organized by the people they called upon. I declare responsible, violators, and especially organizers, who have signed their signatures under appropriate applications, so the crime organizers, the public order violators, will not get away with it in vain. Article 293 “Group violation of public order provides, from a fine of 850 dollars to a term of up to 6 months.” So I also want to ask all the political forces to act with tolerance in mass action. All Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their political preferences, have the right to move freely to any point in Ukraine -- it's an axiom. It is important not to allow offenses to the life and health of citizens while defending their beliefs. Because a citizen, the highest value of the state and any political goals can't be achieved by seeking the honor, dignity, health and life of a person. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u44	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Please, 10 minutes. Orzhachowski, the Communist faction, followed by Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u45	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to colleague Lechenko Volodymyr Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u46	Please, Vladimir Leschenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u47	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Yuri Vitaliyovich, I remember when you were still in opposition to the anger you had taken over by the authorities of the U.S. Now you're doing the same thing that the whalingists did with their domestic workers. Why did you change your mind? And the second. Why did domestic workers near Lenin’s monument, or Bessarab’s market, make a corridor for the passage of bandits through the Crusades? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u48	Thank you. The honourable MP, the actions of the militia personnel at the time that I led the opposition's streets, were directed at the protestors, beating them to the concussion of the Semenyuk People's Deputies, as you remember, and banning any action, regardless of constitutional law. Let's draw a line, and then we're going to start and we're going to get beat up. Police officers in the Christian Church on October 15 were involved only when the opposing political forces tried to fight one another. Police officers did not allow violations of the rule of law, but they ensured the right of any citizen to exercise his constitutional right to carry out demonstrations. No one was chased, no one was beaten, the only one who took those hoodlums who, unfortunately, came in contact with their ideological opponents. Then the police were involved, as you can see in the videos. It was extremely effective. Other than the corridor, if you've been looking closely at these shots, the UN representatives. The UNSO, I'm sorry, they broke the force's chain and went out on Krestatik, but they were actually accompanied by militia personnel so they wouldn't attack the left-wing forces or the left-wing forces wouldn't interfere with any citizen, even the unloved by ideological characteristics, going to the center of the Ukrainian capital. I got a call from your leader, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, and he asked me what my position was about what began on Krestlety. I also learned his point of view. I said I wouldn't allow any mass collision between the right and left forces and be an obstacle to any of their frontal collisions. But I also cannot allow it when one citizen prevents another from moving to his home country. Nevertheless, you had your position. The police, by keeping the law clearly, did their job.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u49	Vladimir Bronnikov, please. After him, Rykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u50	Mr. Lucenko, you used to sit in the hall and you know there's a Rules here. You're set to run the militia as a politician. You know, politics, they're basically the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that You've been leading the same kind of action in your history as politics, but in the police there must be professionals who should be able to manage a crowd that is politically-minded without allowing normal people to get in the way. Do you have such professionals or not, have you had a plan of action for this situation, or have you all improvised?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Bronnikov, I am indeed a politician, but I strongly disagree with your assessment of my leadership of the same actions. More than once during the “Ukraine Without Couchma” campaign, during the orange revolution, no militia among other things was present at these events. But we never got into a fight with the other side. I mean with people who represented, for example, Mr. Kuchma's interests. On the contrary, the police attacked demonstrators and dispersed them, which is an anticonstitutional act. Our militia ensured order and at the same time ensured the constitutional right to rally any political force. We have professionals who have not allowed any serious conflicts. You just heard. Which is just two light implants in the victims and yet, I firmly reject your thesis, but the police have to know how to “manage the crowd”. The people are governed by the politicians who brought them out. If they fail, they will answer for a corresponding article of the Criminal Code, or a fine. Or six months in prison. This is my deep conviction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u52	Boris Rykov, followed by Park Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u53	Dear Yuri Vitalevich, I believe that what has happened has had some impact on the imperfections of our legislation. Do you consider it possible for a mass action law to give local authorities the right to permit or not to permit certain activities, including, inter alia, compensation for the costs incurred by the State in these activities, including internal affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. I think so. That you, the national deputies, have to be determined by a draft law that is appropriate, which is being considered by the commission of the Honourable Widow. He's long in the Supreme Council, make a political decision. I do the laws that there are. At this point, there are no restrictions on demonstrations. There is only a reporting principle, it has been endured by all tens of representatives who have organized the corresponding phenomena in Krestatika, but they have taken responsibility for the peaceful character, the unprovoking nature of their demonstrations. Evidently, they did not keep their word. Thus, they fall within the scope of activities that qualify as a mass disturbance. The police will then decide to bring them to justice. At this point, legislation is indeed imperfect, but it is not worth hiding for those who organize all of this that has taken place on the Crusades. Each of us remembers the standing of half a million people in Chrystec without any militia, and there was no fixed battle during the 17 days of the revolution. That is why we had to defend our ideological beliefs here, but we did not prevent people from expressing them in a peaceful way. Unfortunately, the provokers were from both sides. Heat heads were hot, and from that point on, they were able to get to the beginning of the disturbances. We, the police, effectively stopped it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u55	Volodymyr Pack.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u56	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word Grigorovich to Lilia Stepanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u57	Please, it's Lily Grigorovitch's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u58	Lila Grigorovich, National Union of Our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Minister! It's very good that we've seen the video order, because we've actually seen the special provocation prepared by the specifications, certainly not our country, where two special subjects were involved: the political marginals: the PSP and the UNA UNSO. Some were given to Madame Vitrenko to Ukraine, the other to Mr. Corchinsky. I don't think we've seen UPA soldiers walking and going to the Holy Roof on their land here. And this special provocation didn't actually work. Question number one. Do you appreciate this as a special provocation against Ukraine, against its statehood, against the Ukrainian authorities? And question number two. Should not the subjects of this special provocation, the Special Provincial Margins of PSOs and UNA UNSOs be removed from the electoral process because they are violators of the Ukrainian Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u59	Dear Lydia Stepanovna, I will be followed by the director of the BSS, and he will probably answer your question, because the assessment of the nature of national security or the crying about the state can only be called the Ukrainian Security Service. Personally, I believe that all the leaders of political forces and public organizations who went to Christianism that day demonstrated political ignorance, which is my personal point of view. And unfortunately, I have to say both to you and to your side, because the leadership of the Ukrainian People's Party, which called for the UPA veterans' parade, I understand, I mean this right hand side, was officially called for this parade, unfortunately. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, then I won't go on. Nevertheless, I believe that, at this point, veterans and others have been using the tools of agitation and propaganda of certain political forces. I think that at the same time, leaders cared more about their reputation than about the real development of culture, the democracy of Ukraine. But this is my personal point of view, which has nothing to do with the legal evaluations that will be given to the organizers of the hooliganic actions on Christianity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u60	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u61	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Mr. Jury, I'd like to clarify something of your statement, particularly the broken criminal article: whether it's broken by fact or by person. If the fact is, will they eventually be attracted to people, because I'm quite agreeable that there were the actions of individuals who wanted to make a party or any other authority in this fight, using really older people, veterans who won their own, took off, and in this case the millet was a victim. Will they be held accountable? And the next. At your point of view, how much legislation is needed to improve. So that the next action will take place in the West, that is, the first person to apply for it, and is responsible for the conduct of the action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u62	Thank you, Andrey. First of all, I hear a violent reaction from the people's deputies. Obviously. I said wrong, I didn't have the information, and I'm stressing to the fans that I haven't studied the situation properly. And they're not responsible for the events of the 15th, even though their supporters were at the post office. But I'm sorry, I don't have the information. On the other hand, Mr. Andrew, Ukrainian legislation is sufficient to ensure that responsible politicians are responsible. But obviously not all politicians are, and so I would welcome Parliament's initiatives to clarify the mechanisms of action of the militia, or of the local executive authorities in the event of clearly predetermined conflict situations. For example, limit the date of the application to 10 days before its execution so that the police can prepare as a minimum. Keeping, for example, this is what I think is a reporting character, not a permit that would be anti-democracy. The second question. Increase the responsibility of the organizers. And in this regard, let me say that today’s legislation allows us to hold them accountable. The case is violated by the Kyiv Police on the facts of organization and hooligan action, and if we expose these organizers, if we prove them guilty, we'll either hand them over to the court for 850 dollars, or we'll have them detained for half a year. So right in front of me, I'm rejecting any premeditated statements of political repression. We finally have to know that democracy is not only freedom but also responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u63	Yes, thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Have a seat, please. Head of Security Service Drizzly Igor Vasilovich. Five and seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u64	Dear National Deputies! After a report by the Minister of Internal Affairs on the actual circumstances of October 15th. I think it's clear to everyone that participating in action by a large number of people with different, sometimes frankly opposite political views could have actually led to unbiased processes and, as a result, mass upheavals. It was to avoid such developments that efforts were made by the Ukrainian Security Service, which, starting on October 5, continuously informed about the possible negative development of law enforcement agencies, state institutions that dealt with the issue of public order. Without giving a legal assessment of the events that have taken place, perhaps the Deputy Attorney General will do so, I can say that the crimes or offences that have been dealt with by the Ukrainian Security Service in these days have not been committed. But, nevertheless, the right possibilities were foreseen, and we informed them. The relevant information clearly indicated that. I quote literally: “The course of the action does not exclude physical conflicts between the participants, which may lead not only to public order violations but also to the destabilization of the social and political situation before the start of the electoral campaign to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” In response to these reports, authorities, including the Kyiv City State Administration, applied to the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev for restrictions on the location of the shares. However, on October 14, the court found no basis for satisfying the administrative requirements, which allowed the organizers to conduct it on their own. Directly at the scene, the interaction between our employees and the Ministry of Internal Affairs forces was organized with the aim of minimizing the threats posed in the course of the stock. As you've seen from the video series, in many cases it's allowed to warn the mass physical confrontation between the opponents and localize the individual conflicts between them. According to the minister’s information, all the facts of illegal actions have been given a legal assessment, including by the court. So the right-hand side is kind of exhausted. But political emotions are still uncontrollable, and they continue to be warmed up by individual political forces. I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, there were individual national MPs involved in the campaign, and not only did they passively take it, but they also controlled people's actions. So the events that we're talking about, once and for all, clearly reveal the level of civil responsibility of the leaders of the political forces for what's going on in the state. Therefore, in view of the need to eradicate the causes rather than eliminate the consequences, it may be true that more than just law enforcement officers are present in this rostrum today. For no one, and, more importantly, for you, the distinguished national MPs, is not a secret that is now being used in a period of growing political passions, so to speak, “not the very sterile tools themselves, ” including the principle: worse, the better. Regrettably, it is best for only individual politicians, and worse for society, people, whose emotions and sincere feelings are so arrogant, sometimes speculative. I think in this situation we need to listen more to each other and try to understand the other side. Ladies and gentlemen, questions have already been raised about, as it were, legal instruments that would allow these situations to be avoided. Of course, the developments that took place on October 15 could not and could not continue. Although the rights and responsibilities and responsibilities of the organizers of such mass meetings are not properly regulated, so are the responsibilities of the authorities and law enforcement agencies. Regrettably, until now, the Law on the Peace Congregations of Citizens has not been passed, a project of which has been submitted several times to the Supreme Council, including the well - known Hennadia Josephovich Udovenko. The Law on Combating Extremism has not been adopted, and it is essential to prevent similar manifestations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living at a time when every event can be the reason for mass public action, and it, in turn, is the case for radical manifestations. I want to remind you that after October 14, there will be November 7th, and then 21st, Midan's anniversary, and there will certainly be attempts to use people's emotions against each other. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u65	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u66	They're all citizens of our state, they're all Ukrainians, and if the organizers of the action are taking care of people, not their own political interests, first of all, everything will be fine. So in addressing everyone, I ask impartially and carefully without prejudice to the right of every political force to spread its ideas, nevertheless. Consider the need to preserve public security and social understanding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u67	Thank you, Igor Vasilovich. Sign up for questions. Seven minutes. Please, on the monitor. Rodionov, a faction of Communists, followed by Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u68	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Unfortunately, the distinguished President is not the previous rapporteur, you have not said the main basis of what has happened. And there has been a clash of two forces that are now present in society. Communists and those who support them, who oppose the State's policy of recognition, well, figuratively speaking Nazism. That is, those who fought on the side of Germany are like those who participated in the Great Homeland War. That's it. This has resulted in ideological conflict, and it is not those who have gathered themselves, but those who have organized it. And the organization took place at the level of State power, in practice. So, as I say, by assessing, you did these two forces, as if the bandits were said to have gathered there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u69	I completely agree with you that there is an ideological conflict, but I am convinced that streets and squares are no place to solve ideological conflicts. Solve them here, perhaps on the pages of newspapers, on television screens. With regard to the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service and the law enforcement agencies in general, they were directed precisely to avoid radical manifestations and extremism. I think, to a large extent, it worked for law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u70	Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u71	Faction “Regions of Ukraine”, Pecklusenko Zaporozska oblast. Dear Igor Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! I think we need to move the accent a little bit. We are talking as much about the investigation as we are talking about the reasons, and the reason is that one nation, one country, has two truths. And fortunately or sadly, these two truths will always exist. And it's not about me, it's not about you who's long established their truth. It's a question of youth. There is therefore a need for a broad public debate on these two truths in society. Moreover, it may be necessary to hold parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council Hall in order to ensure that young people are first and foremost determined by these truths. This is the first and main question of the cause. Now, I don't agree, Igor Vasilevich, that there's not enough money. If there is not enough in the future, if there is enough force to stop the killing, then I'm sure it must be sufficient to prevent it. And that's what you're talking about today, how to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u72	Thank you. I think the first part of your question actually contains the answer. It's really a matter of ideology that needs to be resolved both in the Parliamentary Hall and by other means of ideological character. As far as our capabilities are concerned, we'll use everything we can. It's not that we're powerless, it's that Parliament, the state, have the ability to give us additional tools and make our activities more civilized and more effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u73	Please, Vladimir Plutinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u74	Thank you. The Lithuanian People's Party, Pluto. Dear Igor Vasilovich, I'd like to ask you a question like the Security Service. After all, the Security Service in my mind is the service that has to normalize all our laws by name in the political too, meaning direction. And I think the Security Service should probably make an offer as far as it goes, as it goes. I want to say that one of the foreigners, I will not call his name, although I know which state, he said: “How many Kiev has become a reserved city.” And really, look, even behind us is this park. There was the most beautiful park, everything was destroyed, everything was trampled. And I think it's completely out of order. Therefore, I would like to ask in an orderly manner that the Security Service should deal with this issue in more detail than it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u75	I thank you for your confidence, because this is how I appreciate your proposal to participate in the legislative regulation or order of processes. Unfortunately, we are not the subject of the legislative initiative, but we are involved in the process. Today I have named two laws that we will insist on. As for the involvement of the Security Service in other matters of a political nature, our competence is defined by law, and under this law we will move and ensure order in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u76	Please, Mikola Joulinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u78	Please, Kendzior's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u79	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Igor Vasilovich, you just said there have been no crimes related to the S.B.U.S. in these days. Please tell me, when this Red Mutant walks freely around Ukraine with slogans for the restoration of the Soviet Union, when there were slogans for the Soviet Union on Saturday, when the Alliance has placed the boards all over Ukraine “With us God and Russia”, please say the calls for the restoration of the Soviet Union – this is the destruction of an independent Ukrainian state – whose authority to intervene in the matter – the BSB? Why are you looking so unpunished without responding to these events?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u80	In answer to your questions, I can say that the legal evaluation of all the actions that took place at this time was given to both the Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and to the Attorney General's Office, one of whose directors will speak after me. We did not find a component of the crime in the actions of those who took part in the October 15 events. If you think we're wrong, there is, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, and you can use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u81	Thank you, Igor Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. I invite you to the rostrum of Deputy Attorney General Vasil Stepanović the jury. Also five minutes of information, seven minutes of answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. According to article 393 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the events that took place on October 15 were indeed a criminal offence. We've checked the relevance and legality of a criminal case, it's violated under the Law. We studied the investigation, the state of criminal investigation yesterday. The criminal case is being investigated effectively, qualitatively, in this criminal case, we've given instructions, we've set up a task force, we've given instructions to investigate this criminal case in the city's department of inquiry. And they took the case for special control. Experts are also assigned to the case and are looking for a dock under current legislation. With regard to the questions that were answered in this room according to the appropriateness of the time and the full scope of the police. So according to these statements and facts, we're doing an investigative test. They've commissioned the Head of the City Police to conduct a police review: whether the police were in place on time, or whether it was in full volume to protect public order, and we'll be given a decision in accordance with article 97 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the subject. We have, Your Honor, a request to you, but it's not a legislative basis. We don't have the right level yet, and in order for the police to act clearly and coherently, we need to change the Police Act. And in our country and especially in the capital, we have a high level of crime. To this day, we do not have the Crime Prevention Law. There is a request, if possible, to speed up the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u83	Thanks for the tip. Please sign up for questions. Seven minutes. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. After him, Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u84	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vassil Stepanovich! I am surprised that law enforcement officials today are trying to translate this as bullying. You don't understand what's going on in Ukraine? And here's the thing. That UN UPA soldiers fought on the side of Hitler’s fascists, you know that this is condemned by the world community. Now virtually the Ministry of Internal Affairs on October 15 was helping them to walk on the Crusades. The president is trying to rehabilitate these UN UPA soldiers along with the government. What Ukraine will look like against the backdrop of the world community.? Do you understand what this is about or not? And neither one of you said that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u85	I understand very well what this is about. But, honourable national MPs, I am a prosecutor and I am governed only by the law and will guide it, and I will act clearly by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u86	Give it to God so we can always have it. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u87	Please indicate whether your case is being investigated by authorities, such as local authorities and possible provocative actions by the higher authorities of the Ukrainian State in order to provoke two opposite structures in a provocative way in one area in fact to provoke conflict. Whether the analogies are followed up by the exact same actions of the previous authorities at Kuchma, when in 2001 two opposite forces were similarly tricked by a minimum number of militias. Are you investigating the possibility of being involved in this provocation of the minister of the interior? For the rest of the time, please hand it over to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u88	Yes, this is the subject of our consideration. Your question is the subject of our consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u89	Thank you. Vasil Stepanovich, you deserve and rightly exercise authority and respect not only among professionals but also among ordinary people who remember how professionally and properly you defended their interests in Volina, Zaporozhi district, Kiev. And specifically, that's why it's a professional question. Nevertheless, what laws would it be appropriate to amend or supplement the Supreme Council of Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u90	Well, I called you a law on militia to clearly distinguish police functions so the police would know in situations like this how to behave. Law? Well, it sounded today, the head of the Security Service asked for a law on public action and action. And we're very concerned about the law that I've already called, three times it's been put into the session hall -- it's a crime prevention law. We have a very high crime rate in Ukraine, very high.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u91	Peter Toločko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u92	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please give the floor to Deputy Nechiporeku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u93	Vladimir Nechiporuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u94	Thank you, Peter Petrovich and you, Adam Ivanovich, for the word. Dear Vassil Stepanovich, I am addressing you as well as the deputy, and the prosecutor of the city of Kiev. Please tell me, what is your control over the local authorities, as the prosecutor of Kiev City, who issue permission for the demonstrations? And why do they issue permits in times equal to forces that are actually provocative forces in Ukraine? So I have a question about how a lawyer, something that the local authorities have created in a special way, is a collision to bury this movement forever. which one is today from both sides, from the right and left forces in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u95	The same question has just been raised in the Hall, which is the subject of our investigation of a criminal case. Thank you. And besides, there was a court decision. In addition, the minister was already sounding it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u96	Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u98	Refata Chubarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u99	Thank you very much. Dear Vassile Stepanovich! Vasil Stepanovich, I'm here! There are certain algorithms in the behavior of political forces that can cause conflicts, including physical collisions. The oppression of intolerance, ethnic, interreligious enmity in society, has become the foundation of the activities of individual political forces. I don't know if Crimea prosecutors give you information about what's going on in Crimea today by individual politicians, separate political forces, newspapers like Crimean Truth. Every day Ukrainianophobia, tatarophobia! And all of this leads to people at some point, including provocateurs, both CPUs and others, being able to crash. Tell me, please, how do you exercise your primary responsibility to warn those who oppress public hostility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u100	I want to apologize to you, but I'm not in charge of Crimea and I have nothing to do with Crimea. I'm in charge of the city of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u101	Vasil Stepanovich is the head of the public prosecutor’s office in Kiev, which is why he informs today because these events were in Kiev. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u102	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm asking you to pass the word to Tegniboku Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u103	Oleg Tagnibok microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u104	Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vassil Stepanovich! On October 15, Moscow emissaries and lemons and Southerners took part on the Communist side. In fact, citizens of a foreign state, the Russian Federation, under their national monarchy flag of Russia, were preventing Ukrainians from honoring their heroes in the capital city of Ukraine. Please tell me, why didn't the law enforcement authorities detain these provocative citizens of another state? For the rest of the time, please tell Michael Ratushna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u105	The Warthog's microphone. Then you'll have Vasil Stepanovich answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u106	Thank you, of course. The question is what I wanted to ask. But I'd like to give an explanation for the radio audience, because here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u107	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u108	Six persons were detained during the events that took place. They are all citizens of the city of Kiev who are drawn to administrative responsibility. You've heard that before. Other individuals have not yet been detained but are using films, recordings, to set up an objective picture that had a place. In the course of the investigation, I think it's going to be set up and given an evaluation of these facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u109	Thank you, Vasil Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. One minute to correct inaccuracies in the information. Warthog's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, first of all, in addition to this. I haven't heard from any of the law-enforcement officers, although the video record shows that there was a violation of the State flag of Ukraine, blue and yellow. As far as we all know, there is a criminally responsible article for this. And there was this abuse under the red flags, under the tricolour, under the flag of a Russian biohazard with this two-headed woman.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u111	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, we agreed that I would give the floor to a representative of the Ukrainian People's Party, who would make it clear that the Minister of Internal Affairs had stated that there were 25 applications and the Ukrainian People's Party. You wanted to make it clear that there was no such application for the 15th. Yes, the discussion is over. I think that the questions that colleagues were asking, absolutely, so to speak, openly, and tolerantly, and briefly, were answered by law enforcement. But I think we're all in solidarity with Alexander Pecklesenko, who said: “If the police had the strength to break up a fight, the more they were able to prevent it.” And let's face it, it's not the law that's responsible, it's their laws that are more than necessary. They probably didn't make it here when the fight started, and then they stretched it, as they say. So let's move on to the next day's agenda. We should now consider the draft decision of the Supreme Council on honouring and authorizing the Supreme Council in a concise manner, but representatives of the Committee on Rules of Procedure are asked to consider it a little later next week, as some clarifications are needed. Yes, there is a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the provision of State aid to care for a child until he reaches the age of three, registration numbers 6464, 6464-1, 6464-2. The first bill will be reported by the author of the initiative, Samuelka Catherine Semenovna, to prepare Hubski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u112	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the bill has been drafted at the request of many mothers in support of the State Institute for Family and Youth Problems. We politicians are used to talking about young people, children as our future, but something so unattainable that we don’t even need to talk about today. But the urgency, the relevance of daily understanding of the importance of caring for these futures has been met with the background of these immediate problems that are important to society, but which are being solved daily. The government says that it was not necessary to pay for a child’s birth of 8,000 with inherent blasphemy, claiming that this would enrich drug addicts, misogynists, and so forth. Under this logic, only the scum of society are born in Ukraine. Why, then, do millions of ordinary Ukrainians forget about business at the same time? Where are the promised effective actions regarding new jobs, decent wages, and living conditions? And a full society will never be in this if we don't deal with these issues. So, no matter how much Christian ethics we try to introduce into schools, they will be of no benefit if parents — usually young people — are unable to provide care for their children. I have proposed a bill that is designed to continue to pay attention to the care of the child until he reaches the age of three who care for the child, even if he is employed. We live in a real world, a real world, and today we even put a child in a rural area at a preschool, virtually impossible, because they're all ruined. And they're no longer in separate regions. And so, indeed, it will help the woman, and more than that, we know that for three years no one will keep a job for a woman, a young mother. Today’s legislation allows her to quit her job while she is on specific leave. That is why we consider it necessary to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children and on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance. The specific proposals we made, the committee supported our bill. Moreover, additional costs should not be foreseen in the state budget, as they are foreseen annually. We simply extend the mother and the young family’s ability to support their children.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u113	Thank you, Catherine Seed, sit down, please. Yeah, next bill, which one of the authors is ready? This is Gurov, Hubsky, Eden. It's a simplified procedure. And what we don't have in the short term is this. No, I can't see, can I? Then please, Mikola Rudzikowski, Bill number 6464-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u114	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! Initiation by the Socialist Party of the adoption of the Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws on State aid for care and by a child under three years of age is based on the need to eliminate discrimination and increase the social protection of families with children. The Ukrainian Act on State aid to families with children states that persons who are not insured in the system of compulsory state social insurance when they are born, or adoption, or custody of two or more children, are assigned to care for a child before reaching the age of three. At the same time, Ukraine’s Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance in relation to Temporary Loss of Employment and Expenses, and so on, does not foresee an increase in assistance in proportion to the number of children in need of care for three years of age. This is a discrimination and a violation of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine because they cancel the benefits that were provided for in the previous Acts. Yes, in fact, at the birth of a child in the family, the person who takes care of the first child under the age of 3 should leave the vacation to take a second leave of absence to care for the newborn. The first child loses his share of material support. So the size of our, and so meager, state detention does not depend on having one or two, three children. About this situation, it seems to me that the Supreme Council should eliminate such discrimination in relation to our children, taking into account the line taken to stimulate birth in Ukraine. I think we should support this Law, not hang on Ukraine's boards, but provide materially for families and children so that families and mothers continue to give birth. I think a line to improve the welfare of citizens is the right way. An example of the Illich factory, as the city’s wages rise and all the inhabitants of the region are supported, the city’s birth increases, and there it is positive. I believe that such an example should be adopted throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u115	From the Bondarchuk Committee, Alexander Vasilovich, Committee on Social Policy and Work, please, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u116	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Dear President, distinguished members of the people! At the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, three bills submitted by the deputies of Samajlik, Hubski, Gurov, Odin were considered. And Rudzikowski's third bill, with proposals for amendments to the draft laws, regulates the provision of State assistance in the care of a child up to the age of 3. The substance of the proposal is set out by the initiators of these bills. I report on the Committee's position, according to the ekaterina Samoylik People's MP's Bill, and we propose a positive decision as a basis. Indeed, to date, the rule of action is totally unfair. If a woman naturally lacks 90 or 104 bracelets, the level of State aid to ensure that the people's deputies are aware that she is naturally forced to go to work. Of course, 104 bracelets can't feed a child. I mean, it's state aid. This does not mean that a person has gone to work and receives 350 bracelets and has to take these 104 bracelets. That is, the Committee supports and requests the deputies to support them. Under the next bill, the Group of Deputies, Gubsky, Gurov, One, is invited to raise this assistance to a minimum of two. Comrades are a good wish, but to date, we cannot provide the amount of this assistance, as stipulated by the Act, to the minimum subsistence minimum. We pay, in accordance with this norm, the abnormal as well as the “minimum subsistence minimum level” i.e. the 104 bracelets. Now it's about raising to 700. Clearly, there is probably no budgetary capacity for such a solution. Let's try, at first, to at least comply with the rule of law that is in force to date and to pay, not 104 bracelets, but to pay, let's say, 470. And Rudzkowski's third bill. The Committee supports, the correct proposal, to clarify the wording of the current law under which the services that charge this assistance sometimes say that if doubles are born, they will pay double aid, and if children are born one after the other, they will not pay. Such suggestions by the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, Puzakov, follow him Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u118	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Family plays a key role in the development and stability of society. Thus, providing an enabling environment for a full - time family for young people is the most important task of our day. But statistics show that young families are falling apart. And when a young family, on the part of the State, needs special help in rearing and supporting children in their early years, the family unfortunately does not receive such assistance. Let us admit that young families are not provided with housing, most of them are unemployed today and, sadly, are, and we are, witnesses to the fact that the educational potential of the family is declining because of the poor welfare of the vast majority of families with children. In a crisis of demographics, low birth rates in the country, one component of family politics should be the creation of favourable conditions for motherhood and professional growth. What are the conditions of motherhood when a young mother is forced to leave a young child and seek employment to live with her child? For example, we now have 540,000 young mothers who are supposed to be on vacation to care for their child for up to three years, but only 100,000 of them are fully using their vacation because the 90 bracelets given to young mothers, as a one - time support, are not enough for children to three years at present’s prices even for milk. Aiding 90 bracelets is just the mind of a young mother. And even more so when a mother has 90 bracelets taken away from her mother because she has gone to work. Thus, the Communist faction has repeatedly pointed out that a major factor in the social protection of families is the provision of State assistance to care for a child until she reaches the age of three in employment to partially compensate for the cost of child care services. I support the bill of the Ukrainian National Deputy Samoylik because it aims to create conditions for women to combine motherhood with professional activity and to strengthen the social protection of families with children. And other bills have to be sent for redrafting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u119	Mikhail Volintz. Get ready, Reshniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u120	Mikhailo Wolitz, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, radio listeners! Today, more than ever, society is aware of the social value of the family, its vital role in the upbringing, formation, and development of the child’s personality. In a situation of crisis and low birth rates in the country, one of the components of family politics is to create favourable conditions for mothers and professional growth. The proposed project number 6464 will enable mothers to combine professional activities and motherhood, to improve the status of families with children, to expand their ability to raise and support children during their first years of life. Yet, we do well to make some good points. The bill proposes to continue to provide assistance only to the mother of the child, while the Ukrainian Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance provides that other insured persons are entitled to such assistance in connection with temporary loss of work and expenses caused by birth and burial: one of the parents of the child, the adoptive parent, the grandmother, the grandfather, the other relative or guardian. How does child care actually work? [[Part One of Article 42]] This situation must be taken into account in the further work of the project. In addition, part two of article 42 of the Act on compulsory State social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial is defined as providing assistance to insured persons in the form of material security, which partially compensates for the loss of income during the period of leave to care for a child until the age of three. It is therefore necessary to make appropriate changes to this law. I propose to support it on the basis of further elaboration of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u121	Please, Ivan Rishnjak, follow him Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u122	Ivan Rishnyak, constituency 162, Sumska District, Lithuanian People's Party faction. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, Chief, distinguished guests! The faction of the People's Party approves the concept of Bill 6464 and two other bills under the same headings, which can fully complement the draft law of the Samoylik People's Deputy. The humanistic orientation of this legislative initiative is that the author intends to legislate the European standard for creating favourable conditions for a woman with regard to the exercise of her right to choose, since so far few have asked the Ukrainian woman, she wants to implement her motherly origins in the context of the firstborn, as they say, God-given right, whether she wants to devote herself to career growth or otherwise to realize her intellectual potential, combining things with motherhood. Unfortunately, the great-grandfather Ukrainian woman is self-sufficient and highly moral, 70 years in a row, if not more, had the only right, except to have children, only to work hard. We will not mention both farms and households and tractor steering, and so on, and so on, and ropes wet their necks in the water, and we can call many other examples. The very setting of this issue is already a good sign of Ukraine’s advancement in the civilized attitude of society toward the needs of a woman, a child, and the State as a whole. Yet the lack of knowledge about society’s willingness to make such progressive changes raises questions. For example, should this bill be adopted, would it not become that laudable step back after a series of difficult steps taken by the State to meet mothers, which women could only dream of for decades and, in fact, hundreds of years ago? And do we think our society will lose that kind of money? After all, even the highest level of professional caregiver will not replace the baby’s contact with the mother during that most tender period of his life. In general, the faction of the People’s Party looks with optimism at the fate of the bill, encouraging colleagues to support it by unifying all three bills that have been passed by national MPs. There are, in fact, nuances with the introduction dates, i.e. if these projects are to be brought together, these issues need to be reconciled to the proper order and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u123	Thank you. Zara Katusheva, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u124	The Communist faction, Katusheva, Crimea. In the face of the crisis demographic situation in Ukraine, we must be clear enough that the priority of family policy must be to create conditions where women can combine motherhood and their professional activities. The adoption of Bill 6466 will allow a woman who goes to work before she reaches the age of three to continue to receive State assistance to pay for the care of the child while her mother is at work. It is not appropriate to deprive the mother of the miserable child that the State is paying until she reaches the age of three, just because she has quit her job. This is a misery that does not cover the cost of raising a child, but only partially compensates them. I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies to the fact that the adoption of the bill, 6464, does not require additional costs from the State budget because the payment of this assistance is provided for in the State budget. The implementation of this bill will allow the mother to combine her professional activities and motherhood, to protect the family socially with the children, and to increase her ability to raise and care for children. I propose to take the bill of Samoylik as a basis for its adoption on first reading, and here are the remaining bills to be taken into account in the finalization of the Samuelk Project on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u125	With noshchenko's motives, one minute. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u126	Nightshenko Mikola, 160 constituency, Volodymyr Litvina People's Block. Unfortunately, the fact is that neither the reporter nor the other speakers, nor the committee, have informed society that everything we say is not working today, practically in our society. For the first time, with one hand, the government of Ulysses Volodymyrovna Tymoshenko, with the support of a one - time, one - time increase in support, with the second hand, took a look at this systemic constant aid that was provided without total income, without the collection of numerous aids, without the help of the second half of the man. In fact, the same requirement for cancelling aid without taking into account total income was also expressed in the 2006 draft budget. So I encourage you to support the Samuel Bill in the first reading, but when you're working on it, take into account the fact that help is provided by birth, child rearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u127	Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u128	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Honorable national MPs, no doubt in today’s demographic projections, we will support every legislative step that comes to a solution. With the rest of the country's beginning, the president finally did, for the first time in 14 years, this kind of help, but, speaking of all these steps, I want to mention the word that we all heard today from the podium. Today, the Ukrainian people, for whom we write these laws, have been called scum. I am sure that people who have not studied the ethics of faith will of course call their people scum, and I know that a Ukrainian woman, a Ukrainian mother, will surely win. Because in postwar France, General de Gaulle also paid a lot of money at the birth of a child and French certain opposition politicians shouted: “You are financing a French whore.” General de Gaulle said, "Mother will win." And in Ukraine, my mother and my wife will win, and I apologize for the "cannibals".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u129	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u130	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I would like us to be a little calmer on the subject, because if we discuss politics again, there will be no explanation. Because to praise the former, present and future powers of those who hold, perhaps in this room, well, there is still a little bit more restraint to those considerations. Colleagues, let's see that 80% of the population in this country, if not 90, is poor. Most of them are destitute. So let's look at the bill in this logic. And what we have today -- a perfectly normal bill under number 6464 -- is a topic that needs to be discussed. And without giving in to emotions, we can or must give the mother a decent condition at least if she can solve at least some of the problems of child maintenance or going to work alone, earning too much money to put it back into her child. That's why I think 6464 is what we're supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u131	Nigger. Nigger, Black Mike. I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have every reason to support a bill that provides that when she goes out to work, she will be able to receive state aid to partially compensate for the cost of the services of a trained expert. I think that in the process of preparing for second reading, it is still necessary to remove that word from a trained expert. Because not every mother, in particular in the village, can find such an expert and then demand such an expert and write it in law. This is the first time. And second of all. The project foresees that they are employed until they reach the age of three, and such a mother is entitled to receive State aid. That is, if a mother is employed and does not use such an expert, she does not receive State aid. I think it's also wrong. And in progress.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u133	Yes, Matthew in the Ministry of Finance wants to uphold this law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u134	Dear People's Deputies! I'd like you to pay attention to such things before the vote. All three bills are being considered without the calculation of additional costs, without identifying the sources of funding for these additional expenses. Under all these draft laws there are additional costs, under Law 6464 - 80 million bills for the year 6464 - 1 over 9 billion dollars, over 9 billion dollars per year. By law 6464-2, over 160 million dollars. I would like to see if, for the time being, we can determine whether this is in line with the Rules of the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Budget Code, the laws adopted after 15 August cannot be financed in the following calendar year, regardless of all these laws, the introduction of these laws is either from the time of publication or from 1 January 2006. Next. I would also like to point out that by law 6464 3.7 billion dollars should be funded from the temporary disability fund for insured persons. The fact is that the fund is already scarce, its deficit is covered by the State budget. I'm asking you to pay attention. And last of all, I'm asking you to note that the payment of various aids without taking into account income in terms of social income distribution, I think it's wrong. We should look at this problem again. As far as child care is concerned, it is a compensation for the loss of a mother's income. When we put a type of help into work during the mother’s departure period, we need to determine what it is to help. It used to be a loss of income, and after she went to work, what kind of help is that? In light of what I'm saying, I'm still asking you not to take decisions on these three laws today, to set up a working group on the Social Policy Committee with the participation of the Committee on Budgets and Government Representatives in order to make a definitive decision on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u135	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Makarovich. Thank you for reminding us of the Budget Code. I ask that the Ministry of Finance keep it clearly, and the state budget for the following year has not changed any of the tax laws and laws, because you have no longer reached the deadline that you have reminded us of. But when they go into action, that's a good point made by the Ministry of Finance, and we will certainly take that into account. Yes, I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Provision of State Assistance to Child Care until it reaches its three-year-old age. Registration number 6464. Please vote. We have a male collective, so we vote for women. [[12:53:59]] For 279 Copy that. And so, let's, as it was during the discussion, that we two other bills, what we could take, in the second reading, take into account because they are. But you heard. Let's count in the second reading. Dear colleagues, Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u136	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, in Rudzkowski, in fact, a slightly different law and it can be voted on. And the last one we'll take into account. I want to say that before the national MP who didn't hear what I was talking about. For three days, in the media, it's about the natural way that drug addicts and bums want to get rich at the expense of these 8,000, and I said. But it seems like we have a demographic situation and a birth of children, we're only dealing with the scum of society, we have to put our accents right, we don't have to speculate, because we're women, we're politicians, we're MPs, we're not cops.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u137	The head of the committee informed us, indeed, that the laws do not exclude. I then put to the vote Bill No. 6464-2 of Rudzikowski. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:55]] For-182 Let's, as we agreed, let the committee work on the second reading to see what we can do. Dear colleagues, if it were your will, we would quickly adopt the Children's Nutrition Act and then move on to the Miscellaneous. Yeah, but we'll catch up. Please, there is a denial of this law, can we accept it in the first reading? We vote on adoption as the basis of the Child Nutrition Act. Registration number 1260. Please be supportive. [[12:56:42]] For 272 Thank you, copy. Well, the rest of the laws are a problem, so we won't be. Yes, write down, please, and we will move on to the “Variance”. Prepare to be recorded so that they do not say that the system does not listen to you. Ready? Yes, there is a record of the question: “It’s different”. Please sign up. Yes, please, one hour. He'll let us know on the monitors. Lukashuk Oleg. Katuseva is next. Yeah, it's a surprise. Oleg Grigorovich Lukashuk, please. To whom do you give the word? Teeth, please, Valentine. After them, Katusheva Zarah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u138	Valentin Zubov, Yulia Timoshenko Cell Block, All-Ukrainian Motherland Association. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. We are here in political debates, in my opinion, somewhat underestimated the danger that exists in Ukraine and that we are all with you and the people of Ukraine are not really ready. I mean, an epidemic of avian influenza that has hit a number of regions of Russia and Central, Eastern Europe today. In fact, avian influenza is already within our borders. And frankly, as we are discussing this issue, I am thinking that, in fact, through, literally, a few pedals, we can be at the heart of the most terrible epidemic, and that if the world community does not take real decisive action, the population of Ukraine can fall by more than 150 million. And the indifference we have today to this problem cannot help but be amazed. Moreover, the Minister of Agriculture recommended by the Socialist Party to the Government, Mr. Baraniwski, on the eve of this death threat, dismisses the main person involved in veterinary medicine. I think that today's action by Minister Baraniwski poses a real threat to the national security of the country. From this point on, I wish to say that the Socialist Party of Ukraine and Alexander Moroz himself have recommended this person to be the Minister of Agriculture, who consistently pursues a policy that leads to the collapse of the agro-industrial complex, and today creates real conditions, I stress once again not only the lives and health of our citizens, but also the national security of the country. Takes note of Mr. Verbicki, Director, Department of Veterinary Medicine, who has been successfully working for the past six years within the Ministry of Agriculture, Agrarian Policy and before the death threat, makes such a completely unfounded decision. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, I would like my statement today to be seen as Mr. Baraniwski's deputy request to the Prime Minister for the forms and activities of the Minister of Agriculture. Otherwise, problems can be very and very serious to the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u139	Please, Zara Katusheva. Bespaly's handing it over to Zizka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u140	The Communist faction, Katusheva, Crimea. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the radios, the people's deputies, I would like to thank on behalf of my constituents all those who came out on the 15th of Mayan Independence to protect what our fathers and grandfathers fought for, they have not allowed their honest name to be in trouble. I would also like to remind you of my colleague, Ginsburg. Well, right-wing, you don't really know what to do with this power, give it to the communists! Communists know what to do. They're also really like our fathers and grandfathers, like that depraved Power that the fascists have trampled on in a short time, turned into a beautiful, colorful land, and we're going to rekindle what you've been doing for 15 years. Give peace to our fathers and grandfathers. They would have turned into a grave if they saw what you had done in Maidan when you wanted to rehabilitate UN-OPA soldiers. I beg you, Adam Ivanovich, the remaining time to hand over to my colleague Alexei Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u141	Please, Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u142	Dear radios, respectable colleagues! This week, in general, the massive deployment of the Natov delegation continues to take place in Ukraine. Ukraine's accession to NATO will result in the loss of political and economic sovereignty and the return of what is left of it. And joining NATO will finally achieve the country's scientific, industrial and military complex of Ukraine, lead to a deepening of relations with the historical cultural and spiritually close peoples of Russia and Belarus, to the fragmentation of the Eastern Slav world. The persecution of canon Orthodoxy and sectarianism in Ukraine will be intensified. President Yushchenko and his officials have falsely and irresponsibly been assured that NATO will be able to guarantee international security to Ukraine and ensure the protection of the rights and freedoms of everyone. Moreover, the President stated that he believed that the strategic course of Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine could bring all political forces closer together. So let the President not hope that our position will remain clear that we believe that this will be a failure for Ukraine. All NATO can guarantee today is war and terrorism, as was the case in Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, as is the case today in Iraq, including, unfortunately, the fact that the Ukrainian contingent, as promised by the President, has already killed tens of thousands of civilians in Iraq as a result of point-to-point rocket attacks on residential areas, including. It is clear that NATO is facing the deepest systemic crisis today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u143	And they're gonna crash. Instead of Bespalogued, he gave the word to Zižika, please. The town hall gives word to Gurvo to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u144	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Sergei Žizko, Our Ukraine. In recent times, the political forces that have lost the election campaign and the media, controlled by the well - known oligarchs, have been aggressively spreading distrust of power in society and preparing for a rematch. But remember, when the Bushmen had plundered the state for over a decade and it seemed that the poverty of the people would not end, the people, as a last resort, were looking forward to presidential elections that gave hope for an end to the political impasse. When a clear crime broke into power, ready to turn Ukraine into its patronage, the people went out to defend their dignity, political and economic freedom. He went out to leave the hateful bush and save the country from the power of the bandits in the future. However, not only did the people move their instincts of self - preservation but their conscious desire to be a nation, to decide their own destiny, to live in a free, prosperous state, and to hope for rapid change. That's how the people won the presidential election. Unlike the revolution of the early 1990s, which was characterized by the struggle against the empire, the Soviet Union and the totalitarian KPRS, Victor Yushchenk's victory became the first national victory of the Ukrainians in centuries. And you can't help but realize it, you can't help but appreciate it today. New Ukraine, our Ukraine is just starting its way into the future. And I'm convinced that the people's chosen historical course of action, the elected authorities are destined to be successful. Take your time to bury Midan's victory and delete the elected President Victor Yushchenk. In 14 years, despite all the vices that the Soviet system and the democratized post-communist nomenclature have produced, Ukraine is on a hard road. And the opposition of the sabotagers and the rematchers, the corrupt mob clans and their foreign political patrons who lost the presidential election, will be overcome. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u145	Gurov. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u146	Vadim Gurov, People's Party faction, Krivbass. Respectable radio audiences! For 2 weeks, Parliament had considered one sobering question of what to do with the “Criminalist”: privatize, not privatize, state, not state. And the main thing is, they were trying to get everybody's attention in front of the screens, to show us how we love the "Crimsons" band, how they feel about the good of everyone. Especially at last, they showed the love of the socialists of the Ice. What's wrong with that? This is, see, the whole Parliament in the slogans “We are not privatizing the Krivoroztali”! What is really going on? The combination has long been privatized by socialists! That should be understood, dear radios. Just look and follow my lead. The Chairman of the monitoring board, Petrov, is a socialist, the first deputy to Valentina Semenyuk. The Chairperson of the coordination board of the special coordination of the Parfenov – Deputy Semenyuk. Next, who made the contract with the director? It's a trust fund. So what hope is there for a very literate leadership of the "Criminal" flows? You don't have to do anything anymore. You understand that. And who has suffered on this issue in the principle of “forests cut – rods fly”? Thus, the “les rubit” of the Property Fund is in response to Deputy Prime Minister Grishenko, who, according to a detailed Semenjuk, has been removed from work. It is not man's fault without guilt. There's no doubt that 24 numbers of auctions are going to happen, no matter how much we don't make normal arguments here. The train's gone, we're asleep, and a team, including a 60-thousand finger, hasn't shrunk to get to the denominator that's supposed to be. And if the President said that the dot was placed, this time the dot would be fat. What does the future hold for us? That's what we should have talked about. Three contenders, if Mittel Style comes along, and I want to tell you, this is a firm that has 45 million -- this time. Secondly, they're working on a variety, and Krivorzstali's class is the worst. He's tearing up this international, so to speak, the Krivbass steelman, and they don't need the Creaturestal as such, they need the ore base, they need the raw material, they only need one leg, so then they'll have the other leg. And that's what a team needs to know, and those who want it to be privatized, we just don't have another way. And this is Parliament, and it has to put an end to this. Because 24 numbers can happen irreversibly, at least our manufacturer is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u147	Mikola Rudzkowski, get ready for Sadov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u148	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I understand why part of the people's deputies, especially the People's Party today, is trying to get the Socialists dirty, including me, I realize that I don't want your head of the Supreme Council to stand up and answer for the crime committed, because there is no European future in Ukraine if the Gongadze case is not investigated, and if the people who ordered all this don't answer. I feel the pressure from all sides, the phones are listening, the cars are driving with no idea what numbers, and I can see the voting in the session room asking questions, check what you want. At least find something that belongs to Rudzkowski. You won't, because I don't do the things you blame me for. I understand why the Gurov People's Deputy is blaming the Socialists, because twice, when it came to the question of voting on Krivoriztal, even his law, he took it down so that even before his privatisation, privatization could not be prohibited. And you're criticizing socialists because you didn't get on the socialist list, as you asked, because you don't use support in Bloody Rose because you're betraying people and not defending the interests of the Krivoristals. You don't stand up for the region's interests, because if the factory sells, we have an undeveloped market for securities. If there is no developed market for securities, there will be profit. The city will never get roads like Mariupola, made by the Illich factory, the city will never receive such wages, never get free apartments for workers, never get free vacations paid for workers, free medicine. They'll be a wild field. What do we do? President Olanergo sells to the Americans, oil factories sell to the Russians, let's sell metallurgy, land to the Israelites and Ukraine, 48 million, will they be batteries? Work for foreigners? Is that what you're trying to do? Do this, support this privatization, and we will see what you will say to your children, grandchildren. What are you leading the country to? Shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u149	Yeah, I can't see Santa Claus. Please, Grzezhev gives the word to Bokom. Prepare Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u150	John Boki, the Socialist faction. There is a particularly emotional tension in the room today, and especially many attacks on socialists. All of this is very understandable, why, from where it all goes, why do men forget that they're men, and especially attack women, I mean Valentine's Day? Why this whole mess is cooked -- it's all very clear. My previous socialist colleague, Mikola Rudzkowski, said something about this, I'm going to add a little bit. Yesterday's attacks by a national deputy, I don't call his name because he's not in the hall, Valentine Petrovna, as you understand, life has already been solved. The deputy minister of industrial politics has been released, the one quoted by this deputy here, especially by arguing some sort of fiction against Valentina Petrova. It is not a man’s behavior, but it can be a man’s behavior among people who shake because God does not give their political power to fall out of the electoral race. But this, if you'll excuse me, is not a socialist decision whether you go to the election or not. You're about to face things like this, you're going to have to figure out all the triangles, not triangles, and so on. Solve them yourself, analyze them with your head, party, and so forth. We are not going to destroy anyone, and your political power, too. Life itself will just throw you on the edge, and there's nothing you can do about it, because that's what it is. Well, I'd like to say no here, but I have to answer, Mr. Tooth. What he was talking about today is, I mean, the head of the Minagropolitics, Alexander Baranowski, well, all this, you know, continuation of the intrigues that Julia Timoshenko in the government organized against Baranowski for his insubordinate position in the sugar issue, the meat issue, and so on. All of this is understandable. Here's the question: does Mr. Tooth have a moral right to say it? Who's the Tooth? This is the person who left the Socialist faction at the most difficult time for her, when Kuchma organized literally terror against the Socialist Party. And when everyone there today with these artistic, you know, habits, well, they're almost out of the piano and they're going to a session of the Supreme Council and they're starting to talk about it. We realize that all of this and what it is caused by it. And that it's a lie, that it's slander and, at the same time, such messy things. I'd like to encourage, however, that we don't organize slaughters with each other in this room, understanding that this is, let's say, going to set us on fire, and that's going to set your authority on fire, first of all. The authority of the Socialist Party will not be shaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u151	Mikola Kulczynski. The stallion passes. I'm glad I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u152	Mikola Kulczynski, Viktor Yuschenka's Block of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Once again, I want to focus on the problem that Boris Ilchi Oliynik has heard from this rostrum today. On whether or not the case is the only one across Ukraine, when the children's library of the name Panas Mirny was set on fire, which is in the center of the city, and this action caused the general indignation of the citizens, because in this library, several generations of our children, and my children, and the children of many half-breeds, and it's not just a library, and it's a significant cultural center, an educational center that has 140,000 books. This library has been in existence for more than 30 years. Only 10,000 visitors, children’s readers, cannot help but worry Poltava, and not just Poltava. The thing is, this library was sold for Poltavgasu's debts. After that, it was sold several times over 185,000, and today it is worth 2 million. Of course, the public did not allow the judicial authorities to evict the library into the street. Surprisingly, the position of the Mesikon Poltawski, who granted permission to privatize. Today, the Office of Internal Affairs has uncovered a criminal case involving the illegal privatization of the library. However, the checkbook was thrown into the reading room, which had affected 10,000 books in a single copy, with the aim of smoking out of the library. This, you know, sun-hum, sun-flower, as Carpenco-Kari wrote, or Ostrovsky seems. It is also surprising that the position of the district council and the same Poltava Mesquikonka, which before granting a privatisation permit, should find a way out and consult the district council, because this is its property: how do we avoid this situation, how do we pay for that debt? Although certainly, as I am, the fact of the first privatisation was illegal. I'm again addressing the Minister of Internal Affairs, I've been addressing him, and I'm asking again, as quickly as possible, to speed up the investigation of this case. On the subject of illegal privatization. If the first privatization is assessed, it will be declared illegal, and everyone else will have no meaning. And as hard as it is to establish the ideals of the orange revolution in our city, it's still in the picture, these ideals will still be established. We're going to have a city head that we don't have for four years. We will have a legitimate city of authority that will be guided by high cultural, political, and spiritual values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u153	Yes, Ratchet. Korsakov gives the word to prepare Komarov. Dear radio listeners, distinguished colleagues, are repeatedly forced to return to the situation with regard to the Ukrainian rebel army, although clarifications have been given today by the minister of internal affairs, but I want to use the Ukrainian People's Party at the same time to clarify. The Ukrainian People’s Party has applied for UN, UPA, and to date, never, ever refuses or refuses that these soldiers should be recognized as fighters for Ukraine’s will. If we'd done it in this room, there probably wasn't one on Chrystic. But after learning that many forces were interested in provocation, in battles, respectively, the Ukrainian People's Party changed the format of the event and held a prayer, held a round table, a scientific conference, a holiday concert. We knew that such provocations were being prepared, and this, and right outside the Ukrainian border, and this confirmed quite recently the discovery here again of the Russian cultural center, again near this room when the representative of the State of Russia came to the Hall, who said that they were interested in Russia, so that this fight would be, that they actually stood, as they call themselves, behind the Kremlin's patriotic forces, for the Kremlin. But we do understand that if these forces, which are believed to be the Backwaters, are patriotic to the Kremlin, they are interested in fighting in Ukraine. I'm talking to my colleagues, no matter what region they're from, which faction they're from. We will again be allowed to face the Ukrainians with our foreheads. I'm even turning to the Communist faction. Don't you know the provocative role of the sad Natalia Vitrenko? Don't you realize that you're now playing this scenario that's on the other side because of some momentary ideologies? I don't know why Master Zatulin hasn't been declared a non-grat person so far. As a Ukrainian, I find it very offensive for everyone in this room to beat, break standards, beat Ukrainian citizens under Russian tricolours. It's not a question of whether you're a communist, whether you're a nationalist, whether you're a regional or even a ésdek. This must hurt every Ukrainian regardless of his political orientation. And finally. I believe that another testimony, another confirmation that Ukraine is a legal, democratic state, is a testimony to the decision of the Simferopol Railway Court, which admitted that Ukraine, as a rule of law, is not going to agree with any other authorities to issue political refugees, candidates to a neighbouring parliament. I want to talk to the public. I mean, with regard to the former ex-speaker of the Parliament of Azerbaijan, Mr. Guliev, who left the territory of Ukraine, asked for a handover, a thank you to all the political, public actors who helped democratic Azerbaijan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u154	Do not interfere with the internal affairs of Azerbaijan. Please, Komar. Salmin gives the word to Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u155	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Party faction, which is concerned, notes that today the main problem of the Ukrainian State remains the lack of qualified managers of all levels and, above all, the highest. This was the cause of the deep crisis that Ukraine is creeping into. In less than a year’s work, the previous government has led the country to the edge of the divide. Gas, sugar, and gas crises are followed by a communal crisis. Today’s authorities have adopted a country with economic growth of more than 13 percent. Today, he has fallen to four and continues to fall. Instead of the promised prosperity, the country leaps every day into the greatest period of crisis independence. Not least, this situation was led by a company to fight corruption and to use anticorruption slogans to deal with opposition supporters. The government received portfolios on promises to fight corruption. But according to information that has now become known to all society, a large part of the new authorities are the same corruptionists. Who, then, will fight whom? Corruption in the ranks of the active authorities quickly reached such a size that it no longer contained itself in the tops of the government and in part of the President's environs and with a scandal swept through the country, setting off a political crisis. What does a valid authority do to resist this phenomenon? Only loudly cracks and frightens political opponents with the use of force structures. During the year neither the Cabinet of Ministers nor the President prepared any basic bill aimed at a real fight against corruption. While it was the government of Janukovič that proposed two basic bills for consideration by the Supreme Council in 2004 on the ratification of the Civil Convention on Combating Corruption and on the principles of preventing and combating corruption. But as early as February 8, 2005, on the fourth day of the operation of the government of Timoshenko, these legislative initiatives were urgently withdrawn by Kabmin. Realizing that the population's confidence in the new power has been exhausted, the faction of the Ukrainian Region states that in the area of combating corruption, there has been a complete collapse of unemployment and non-professionalism, the process of destroying the state of corruption has become unscrupulous. The Ukrainian Party's deputy faction refers to the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister, demanding that the chain of corruption be interrupted in the higher echelons of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u156	Mikola Shershun. Get ready, Reshniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u157	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian People’s Party Dear Chairman, colleagues! Yesterday, when I was reviewing the State Budget project for 2006, I couldn't ask the Minister of Finance. Its essence is the following. The income of the local general budget fund, which is included in the determination of the volume of inter-budget transfers, was $386 million from the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for the Plain region for the following year. According to estimates of the economic services, the area that has been taken into account with the recommendations, I emphasize that Minfin, in the formation of the revenue part of the 20006 budget, is the real possibility of mobilizing such revenue is projected to be 336 million. The difference is 50 million. I'm going to Victor Pinzenic's finance minister: is this a technical mistake or a way of letting the entire region survive? This is followed by a reduction, a transfer of 0.75 to 0.50 bets, a removal of allowances, a bonus, and so on. In addition, when I analyzed the draft budget for 2006, I concluded that either Minfin wouldn't listen to the voice of the ministries, or they didn't care about the problems of the sectors involved, or they didn't care at all about what was going on, they didn't understand and they didn't care about the problem. An example of a situation involving funding youth policy in the state. The benchmarks for the Ravenna District Budget for the social programs of the family, children, and young people are almost 629 thousand, and the need is threefold higher. And these costs are mainly needed for the implementation of various government programs. As can be explained, for example, the equations that for the implementation of the entire national policy on family, women, children, and young people in the district and local budgets are proposed to provide for one and a half million dollars when, in fact, the expenditure of the current year alone on salaries and bills is 2.6 million dollars. This means that in March 2006, local authorities will begin the process of eliminating the social services structure for young people. And today, it's not one of the Plainlands that I've given as an example. It's about the threat of destroying the infrastructure of the entire country's youth and child policy. It seems that someone has the benefit of putting his children and his youth back on the streets. And I demand that my comments be taken into account in preparing the State Budget for the second reading. And, dear colleagues, my colleague Alexander Shevchenko -- considering that I have time -- requires that I support the budget amendments to improve financing for the development of fisheries as an indispensable component of our nation's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u158	Thank you. Ivan Rešenjak. To prepare, Loboda conveys Solomon’s word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u159	Ivang Rešnjak, 162 constituency, Matter, People's Party of Lithuania. Dear friends, there are few of us in the hall, but sometimes it seems to me that we like some of our colleagues sometimes act like evil predators grab each other by the throat and choke up like one. More loyally, often one of our ministers speaks to the last one. You know, it doesn't seem to add honor even as a human being, even as a human being, not as a national deputy. And from my point of view, we're going to get less dividends than we're going to get dividends for the people, for the voters, for the negatives. Believe me, especially in young people, especially in the good, normal, intelligent part of our society. I'd like to go to the government today, more loyal to the Ukrainian authorities, and read a few letters that I've received in the last few days from the Romanian district, which is in the essence, personally as a deputy, and they ask me, I'll tell you later, to bring him to the knowledge of the leaders of our state. This is the letter I received from the village of Borozenko in the Romani region, where about 30 people signed, the villages of the Grand Buddhas in the Romani region, the village of the Great Butovka in the Romani region also -- about half a hundred signatures, the village of Besaramka in the Romani region, the village of Andrijashovka -- about 70 signatures, the village. [[more than 10 signatures have]] I speak specifically because people, I call the village, have asked me to. The village of Volodymyrovka in the Romani region, Dibrov village. A letter from the residents of the Mirror, signed by more than 70 people. And what they write, dear friends. Not about fights, not about arguments. Who has the image that wins, what is the percentage of votes during the election campaign, who has the number of deputies and so on. They just talk and write, respectable friends, the village can no longer develop, just live in conditions like these. Help us, prove it. The price of milk is low, the price of meat is low, the price of grain is not low, and so on. Our village is far more important than Zaporoztal, or someone or something important and interested in privatization. Dear friends, let's listen to those people who are asking questions about pricing in the country today and ask the minister to address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u160	Yuri Solomatin. Vladimir Petrenko, or 6 minutes, also gives him his time. Get ready, Usachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Under the circumstances, I am forced today as the head of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to establish the illegal intervention of a citizen of the Russian Federation with refugee status in the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Bérezovsky Boris Abramovich, to finance the election campaign of the candidate to the Presidents of Ukraine, Yushchenko Viktor Andryovich, to provide balanced information in order to avoid the speculations that occasionally arise in the press. The commission was formed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 20. There have been five meetings, and we have some documents in our hands that I'm going to refer to in this report. First of all, this is the minutes of the meeting of the delegation of the interim commission of inquiry in London on October 6 with Berezovski Boris Abramovich. It's been published and it's accessible to anyone. And the second document is a record of hearing number 5 of the interim commission of inquiry hearing information and explaining to the Ukrainian national deputy, Ukraine's first president, Kravczuk Leonid Makarovic, in connection with his contacts with Mr. Berezowski. Further, two Latvian banks reported earlier on their possible involvement in the transactions made by Mr. Berezowski. I have to say this. First. The financing of the promotion of democracy and the expansion of civil society in Ukraine by Mr. Berezowski, which is how he demonstrates the purpose of his activities, was launched in the spring of 2003, and the first payment was made on August 1, 2003. Between August 2003 and December 2004, some $21 million was funded, including some $10 million during the July - December 2004 electoral campaign. There are copies of payment documents that Mr. Berezowski has recognized as belonging to his companies. The other one. The request for funding was made directly from Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk, then a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, and the specific questions for his assignment were decided by Mr. Immortal, Mr. Zwania and Mr. Tretyakov. On one occasion Mr. Immortal was directly in London with Mr. Beresowski, Mr. Trelyakow was conversing in absentia, and Mr. Zwania met five or seven times in London, including two times in Israel. Third. The specific direction of the funds took place at the direction of Mr. Zwania and Trelyakow through two Latvian banks. According to experts from Latvia, which now has about two hundred banks, and in Ukraine less, Latvia is a financial launderer of Europe and most of its banks are used as famous banks in the area of money laundering. Fourth, channeling the funds. Mr. Berezowski when we met him. As evidenced by the fact that he had given to the development of democracy, primarily to the development of civil society institutions and, above all, to support independent Kuchma media. Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk testified that he had spoken to Mr. Berezowski twice that he had provided money to support the orange revolution. The flow of funds has been hidden, and specific recipients in Ukraine are still unknown to us. Arrangements are being made to establish the truth in this regard. Mr. Berezowski testified to his interest in establishing how his funds were used because the recipients had not yet reported it to him. Our experts point out that this money was most quickly spent, first, to some extent stolen, and secondly, to some extent used to maintain the orange field -- tents, heat generators, plasma television screens, etc. Three aspects of the problem that we have testified to: the first is moral, the second is political, and the third is legal. Moral plane. The individuals who contacted Berezovsky immediately give up on him, they shout: “It’s not my fault, it was him who gave us his money.” Where are the clean hands, and where are the clean faces? Political plane. Mr. Berezowski probably laid his eggs in several political baskets, but now he's got our Ukraine on the hook, but we, not unjustifiably, can think that some other political forces are on Mr. Berezowski's hook. Can our society and our politics agree with the fact that certain political forces are being manipulated from abroad, including, on the part of individuals like Berezovsky, and whether our state of Ukraine can be considered, in that case, independent. And the legal situation. Time went bad and election campaigns went on and on. Time and territory have collapsed and, to this day, Ukraine is constantly being hunted by persons such as Mr. Berezowski, from abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u162	It's not about allowing it, it's about letting it happen. Have a seat, please. Larissa's vacuum cleaner. Pomarenko gives the word. A Flash of Preparedness
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u163	Larissa Usachenko, Viktor Yuschenka faction of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukrainian farmers are concerned about the existing situation in the rural area, which creates social tensions and economic problems, as our nation develops. The most painful questions for them are the following. A stable price policy in the grain market and fuel-oil materials market. Everything imported or manufactured from imported raw materials grew sharply. Inflammable and 76th gasoline was increased by 60 to 70 percent. Plants, nitrogen, and phosphorus fertilizers are about 30 percent protected. High - yield elitist seeds up to 100 percent. At the same time, in particular, the price of food wheat in 2005 is 37 per cent lower than in 2004, resulting in significant losses for farmers. Active tax policy. We need to create the right conditions for a peasant to be able to provide his family with the most important aspects by paying taxes. In this direction, there is a single tax application, an improvement in the tax reporting system, as guarantees for the development of agriculture in Ukraine. Overcoming the poverty of Ukraine's villages by developing an effective financial and credit system. Expansion of higher income mechanisms for citizens. The development of advisory services, marketing information systems, and lending communities in rural areas. In such organizations, farmers have access to economic and legal information. Information on new technologies will be able to use certain material resources, technical tools, and, also, access markets. Budget policy is aimed at supporting the restoration of the Ukrainian village. There is a need to increase the budget costs for agriculture, agriculture, APK; to create new and support existing specialized higher education institutions called for teaching and to train real professionals, experts in the field of rural human resources. At the same time, it is important to ensure that rural jobs are created, that wages are raised, and that social conditions are improved. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u164	Thank you. Pomorenko gives the word Mihovich. Get ready for Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u165	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Chairman, colleagues, voters! B I am carrying out a responsible commission entrusted to me by the high - ranking countrymen, members of the Zacarpathian assembly of Russians, to be held tomorrow in the democratic Mukacheva. Who are the Russians and what they want. This is the indigenous people of Central Europe, who have been under different political and national regimes for a period of one and a half millenniums, and each of them has tried to dominate them. In the complex peripetions of postwar geopolitics, the Russians rid themselves of their nationality. At the same time, they confess abroad. They live in 22 countries, and their representatives belong to the world organization of unrepresented nations and other international organizations. Only in the Russian country are the Russians anonymous and lawless. In 1996, the government approved the so-called plan of action to address the problems of the Ukrainian Russians. In the course of its implementation, there is clear and misleading discrimination, restricting Russian access to education, resources, and management. Their activists are being criminally persecuted. History is being distorted, and culture is being ruined. In the last census, they were not introduced into the Nationality Register. The Zacarpathian District Council in 1992-2002 addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue. Yet it is still not solved. On their fair terms, my fellow countrymen receive copies from Kiev of secondary officials and involved scientists. In fact, the gross disregard of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the international treaties, and the absurd myths of the segregated Carpathians, the extremism of the Russian leaders, and other nonsensees that demean the honour and dignity of the compatriots, are perpetuating hypocrisy and cynicism of the central government. What is commercial in the grammar of the Russian language transmitted to each of us by the Society of Cyril and Methodius? What is the danger of the Russian culture festival Red Rouge? Are national and cultural Russian societies less valuable? Human patience is boundless. If the decision of the Zacarpathian District Council on the recognition of Russian nationality is still pending, they are forced to seek the assistance of the international community, to sue the court for a deliberate ethnocid. I urge you, honourable national deputies, to understand the national aspirations of the Russians and to contribute to the restoration of their rights in our country. Please consider this statement as a question to the President and Head of the Supreme Council. The Russians want to be full citizens, not the pastures of Ukraine. They want to be masters of their land, that's their natural right. Helping You Implement It
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u166	Thank you. Mikhailo Stepanov, please. Bandurka's word for Rajkov is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u167	Honourable President, distinguished deputies. I would like to return to the problem of the children of war again and stress that our faction did not support the draft State budget yesterday. One reason was that, in fact, he had repealed the Children of War Act, which should enter into force on 1 January. The fact that our position is supported by very many of our citizens is evidence of the hundreds of letters that come to our faction. In particular, I can quote an extract from the letter of the Honourable President of the Labour Council of the Lugano City Public Organization of the Children of the Great Homeland War, the Hero of Socialist Work, the well-deserved miner of Ukraine Kolesnikov. “For many years, we, the children of war, fought for the existence in Ukraine of the Law on the Social Protection of the Children of War, the year of its entry into force and, lastly, your faction voted in favour of this Act. It is those articles that the draft wants to suspend that are long-awaited for us. All the other benefits can be removed at all. We did not expect such an anti-national step from the Government. Protect the interests of children of war, the current labour veterans, who have no support for the State, with a steady rise in prices. Well, we've already protected ourselves by refusing to support this budget. And I want to touch on one more question. Today, in this room, a colleague of ours called for the resignation of the Head of the State Property Fund, Valentina Semenyuk, and literally of the skin of the lases, offering his assistance in protecting the honour of the Socialist Party. With regard to resignation, we are entitled to demand the resignation of any official, but we must first see what this official has done. With regard to Valentina Semenyuk, it was she who warmed up those Augustian stables that had accumulated in the State Property Fund a decade before their arrival. With regard to assistance in the protection of the honour of the Socialist Party, we do not need such assistance from the bearded representative of Gmiri or from the beardless supporters of his party. If anyone wants to stand by to hold a candle like this, let them stand in another place. The Socialist Party itself will protect its work for the people of Ukraine, its work in the Government, its work in Parliament, its work at the station and its work in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u168	Rajkov. Boris Rykov. Get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u169	Boris Rykov, 200th district, Cherkaschina, faction of the People's Party of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. I would like to emphasize once again the issue raised by the previous speaker on the issue of the social protection of children of war. On 18 November 2004, the Supreme Council would adopt the Act on the Social Protection of War Children. The Act provides for benefits for this category, in particular in the provision of pensions and the payment of housing and utility services. Date of entry into force of the Act as from 1 January 2006. The Cabinet of Ministers was to develop a mechanism for the implementation of the law within a period of two months. That didn't happen, unfortunately. The Cabinet of Ministers is now suspending the entry into force of the law. The representatives of the multi-thousands of children's organizations of the war of Cherkashina have called upon me to prevent the entry into force of the law. People believed that the State would take care of them, and now they are ready to defend their rights. I know that this kind of treatment comes from other cities, particularly Luhansk. The Cercas Regional Cell, the All-Ukrainian Society for the Protection of the Children of War, has already held two rallies in the city of Chercassa. I request the Government to take into account the interests of this category of people and to provide money for the finalization of the State budget. The Budget Committee of the Supreme Council introduced a proposal for a phased allocation of funds for the programme. I reiterate my call to the Government to give serious attention to this issue and to take concrete action to ensure that the articles of the law are provided. We cannot allow people to lose faith in the fact that the State will not protect their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u170	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear voters! Today, we discussed issues related to the October 15 events. As a direct participant in these events, I claim to have been led to the capital’s main street by more than 20 million people killed during the Great War! On October 15, I was reminded of the shootings at Baba’s Yar! More than a thousand German wastes, bandits, and 200 Germans were shot. I was reminded of my grandfather, who died on May 9, 1945, leaving four children as orphans! I was brought to the Christian congregation by those young soldiers widows who lost their husbands at 20, 25, 30 years of age and remained young soldiers ’ widows! I was brought to Midan by human dignity and at the same time outraged at the fact that in the year 60 of the Great Victory, both the living and the dead participated in these terrible years of the Great Homeland War. But to me, the report of the power structures is a formality, and the fact that the President of Ukraine has become the main provoker! He provoked opposition, starting with the 9th of May of the Jubilee year. I am ashamed that in this hall the protection of the Great Homeland War, the Great Victory, was regarded as a hooliganistic debauchery, as a hooligan act! If parties, states, regions, socialists lacked the courage, the political will to protect the winning veterans, then at least in your questions you avoided such assessments, such words, and would not advise the forces how much more cruel it was to do in such cases against the old people. As a woman, politics offends the immorality of power, and that's obvious. This is the power of the green light so that the people of Ukraine could pass through the Chrystec with boots, as if they were hanging. The government gave the right to forget the decision of the Nuremberg process. The government granted the right to march on the dead, from memory, in history. And that right was granted to traitors. It would have been better for all those who came there to make a rematch to rebuild our land, and not to sit in shelters for nearly the 1960s. People of Ukraine! I call on all of us to protect a veteran, a soldier, a conqueror, thanks to whom we live in peace. Let us not allow a rematch to be allowed to abuse our memory and history. And veterans of the Great Homeland War, and of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u172	Basil Nadrag. Sass gives the word to Wolin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u173	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, yesterday's hearing on the Krivorostali case, hearing the information, the discussion on this topic has forced me to go to the rostrum today. Why? I reply: Because yesterday, after asking twice a question and reading the information published on the web site, I asked the President of the Statehood Fund and the Deputy Rapporteur on the subject to comment on the fair and objective question that the leaders of the Socialist Party, who are today the heads of the household fund, have the opportunity to influence the Krivorozstal, are actually involved in demarcating public funds. That's what was written. And I asked you to comment on that information twice. Unfortunately, we never received an answer. The only comment and reply by the Head of the Housing Fund was that she was a socialist against privatization and, as an official, she was in favour of privatization. So I beg your pardon, this duality, in my view, also reflects the general policy of socialists, who, today and just about 15 minutes ago, speaking from this rostrum, have been doing what they have traditionally done for several years. Dear countrymen, I address all who hear me, fellow citizens! As long as we listen to talk by political pygmies, who, with each election, receive fewer and fewer representations in the Supreme Council, but who continue to build their election campaign, not to tell what they have done and how they have done, but to spill the filth of others. I have no doubt that pre-election technologies will continue to be used in this way. I want the people of Ukraine to understand one thing: that by causing dirt, these people themselves are being wiped out in this filth. Because when the question arose, how objectively did the question arise that our fellow socialist MP Rudekovsky controlled the sale of metal from Krivorozstal? We have not received an answer to this question either. When it came to the question that firms that went to Krivorostal were actually working on a particular political party's election campaign today. I have a question: Where are we going, where are we going? My dears, would you like to tell us more about what, aside from the "Criminal" fund of the household, I'm sorry, did he "helpful" in the coffeehouses for that country? What good did the Minister of Social Affairs in agriculture do? When he comes in and tells one thing, and you're like a party in the opposites and the rally, you're playing, I'm sorry, you're also in two hands. On the one hand, you provoke the situation, and on the other hand, you walk and tell what kind of people you are. So be consistent. As much as you can tell. And the last. Don't touch other parties and their leaders. The people themselves will find out in March 2006 who they need and why.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u174	Mikhail Volintz. He's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u175	Mikhailo Wolintz, the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, revered Adam Ivanovich. A few days ago, the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions of Ukraine distributed an annual report worldwide on the characteristics of respect for human rights in the workplace and trade unions, representing people in employment before authorities and employers. In 2004 alone, 145 professional leaders and professional activists were killed. That's 16 more than in 2003. Seventy - seven violent attacks have been recorded, and as many as 500 have not yet been reported and there have been casualties. Professional leaders face arrests, dismissals, and discrimination. Is that not a demonstration for Ukraine? That's right. And the Secretary-General of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, Guy Ryder, said how far governments and employers can go, violating the rights of workers, and that there is a need to change the direction of globalization and to focus on social issues and overcoming exploitation. What type of wrongdoing is taking place in Ukraine? This is the registration of trade unions in State bodies, which is prohibited by International Labour Organization Convention No. 87. Through the Civil Code, the law “On the Registration of Natural and Legal Persons” provides for the registration of trade unions in public bodies. Then, collective agreements. Only 25% of businesses and organizations are covered by collective agreements, and how they are implemented is the subject of another broader discussion. Now in Parliament, just recently in Parliament, a draft of the Labour Code was considered in a second reading. It is a collection of legislation on the work to be cut, rather harshly cut the rights of the professions and the people employed, and give more authority to employers. For example, trade unions will not now grant the right to release an employee or not, the employer has the right to transfer the person employed to another employer for an indefinite period and to any territory. The following violations are the persecution of members of the security agencies of the professional leaders. For example, last year my son was kidnapped and no investigation was carried out. The violation of the rights of trade unions and the beating of the leader in the mine of the Krasnolyman Cojucha, recently shown on the fifth channel, was organized by the director of the mine. In the Illíchiv Trade Port, the administration discriminates against members of the independent association of the port because they have opposed the cable privatisation of the company. And a very important question is the parliamentary hearings that have not yet been held in Ukraine for six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u176	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. And two minutes, Kadenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u177	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The situation in the country is getting worse every day. This is also evident by the mail that comes to the address of the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine, the faction of Communists in Parliament and our own leader, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenk. The pressure on the peasant is increasing. I would like to draw your attention to one of these points: the inhabitants of the village of Veprin Radomisl district of Žitomir district, the owners of the land rations, have been fighting for their rights for seven years. As a result of the criminal reform of the APC, which has been fully demonstrated in the village, various machinations and open document-making have been taken away and, in fact, committed to the campaign “.” that is registered and operating in the British, Virginia islands of Roundtown. 74 times the villagers addressed the various government institutions in writing and orally, including President Kuchma, four times, Yushchenka, one twice, Timoshenko, but there was no response from the authorities. The villagers went to extreme lengths to defend their violated rights, to appeal to the court, but the judge of the Radomisl district court of Nemerzicky, by the way, was known for his father’s and grandmother’s trial, who were never able to return three teenage children from the United States to where they were given to live relatives for adoption. The case is deliberately stalled, and for more than six months it has not been considered, prosecutors are forced to raise concerns about the judge’s departure. Time is coming, and the questions they have raised are never resolved. In order to verify the facts pointed out by the villagers, please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. In addition, I add nine sheets of paper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u178	Thank you. Leonid Kadenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u179	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear friends, I have been instructed by my constituent countrymen to read out the address of the Hottin City Council of the Ukrainian veterans' organization, the Chernjevic region, the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The veterans of the city of Hotina are indignant at the intentions of the government and the President of Ukraine to cancel the benefits to veterans and children of war. Just recently, on May 9, this year, the President swore that attention to veterans would continue to grow, and he and the government would be all dependent on them to make their standard of living much higher than they are today. The President vetoed the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which focused on some improvement in the material status of veterans. And here's a new challenge for former frontists. Article 71, paragraph 18, of the 2006 State Budget Project, grants for housing and utility living conditions for veterans are cancelled. And in article 71, paragraph 17, of this Law, children of war. With each year, the income part of the government budget increases. We have veterans of the Great Homeland War and Afghanistan getting less and less. It would logically be that the social costs for veterans should increase, and here everything is the other way around. How can we understand that? It can only be in a state of absurdity and paradoxes. All of this is explained more simply: Veterans are not respected in Ukraine. The benefits to people of an important age are not just retirement benefits, the benefits are the reward of a grateful state to people, their shed blood in the fields of war, the great sweat of the workers in the back, the bitter tears of mothers, wives, children. We require the guarantor of the Constitution and other high-ranking civil servants to abide by the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which prevent the adoption of laws that restrict citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u180	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u181	Thank you. Their social protection, the deterioration of the standard of living of respectable people. We demand: pretzel. Delete paragraphs 17, 18 of article 71 of the State Budget for 2006 and the second, recalling the veto to the laws. Adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These are designed to improve the standard of living of veterans, disabled persons, and pensioners. We urge all voters of Ukraine during the next election campaign not to vote for parties whose factions will support these articles of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u182	Thank you. And to satisfy everyone, the Orzhachov Anatoly and we will finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u183	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear colleagues, voters, in accordance with the requirements of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, I recently had to visit a number of areas of the Tavrian region. Meetings with the electorate testified. That there is a political, economic and personnel crisis in the region as well as in Ukraine. The closeness of the 2006 budget process gave hope for improving the lives of residents of the area, especially war veterans and workers. However, the power vested in the President and the government team each day, instead of calm and constructive action, is misleading, stressful. This is confirmed by the opinion of the members of the congregations of veterans of the War of the Holocaust region. Their negative assessment of authority is supported by thousands of gray veterans in other parts of Hersonish. They are outraged by Victor Yashchenk's claim and the Government's intention to replace the benefits provided by the Ukrainian War veterans' law, to guarantee their social protection for so-called, targeted assistance. By your actions, you are trying to deprive yourself of the well - deserved state honors that have been earned in wartime and wartime struggles and wars. Your statement, Mr. President, clearly refers to people whose childhood is at war and whose state benefits are imposed on 1 January 2006 in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of the Children of War. Contrary to the law, your government does not provide for these costs in the new State budget. We see similar purposes as a succession of powers over the constitutional rights of 14 million veterans. Today, there is a steady rise in prices and tariffs for food, housing and utilities, and medicine. Replacing or eliminating the benefits is an act that is unacceptable and immoral with regard to history and its heroes. It can be indignant that the campaign is expected to take place in the year declared in Ukraine by the year of veterans, the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory over Hitler's Fascism, for which more than 7 million of our lives have died.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-21-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You said it today. The next plenary session will be in a week, November 1, beginning at 10 a.m. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I'll see you later. Next week we work in the districts, meet your voters.
