ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:03:02]] There were 430 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the change of the MP group "The Will of the People" to the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine on the basis of the decision of the parliamentary group of March 24, 2005. In accordance with Article 4.2.2. and Article 4.2, paragraph 8. 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, as well as according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 24 March 2005, I will inform you of the election of the leader of the faction "Our Ukraine" of the authorized representative of the Nance Mikol Volodymirovic, deputy director of the faction of the authorized representative of Koval Vyacheslav Stanislavovic. Authorized representatives of the "Our Ukraine" faction of Bespalo Boris Jaković, Odanik Mikolaiovich, Filenko Volodymira Pilipovic. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples' Deputies and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Sergio Bondarczuk into the National Party. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the origin of the Ukrainian National Deputies Davimuka Stepan Antonovich, John's Sergija Anatoliyovich, Curvature of Jurija Zinovič, Uljanchenko Vera Ivanovna, to the membership of the "Our Ukraine" MP. Dear colleagues, in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, members of the government, as well as the leaders of the district councils of Kiev, Sevastopol. My fellow Members, yesterday we decided that we will be working in plenary today to consider the issues relating to the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors and the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2005 and other legislative acts, i.e. two issues. Dear colleagues, on the first question, regarding the Court of Auditors. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask the head of the Counting Commission, Mishur Valery Dmitrovitch, to provide you with the necessary information on this matter. Listen carefully, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u2	I would like to inform you that the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors takes place by secret ballot through the submission of ballot papers, I emphasize. For the elections to take place, at least 300 deputies must take part in the vote. I'd like to ask the people's deputies, and I'll count them, and I'll start working in the left-hand towers on the third floor of the Supreme Council. This is Kafari Vladimir Ivanovich, Fomenko Katerina Alexandrovna, Asadchev Valeriy Mihajlovich, Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, Grzezhev Anatoly Dmitrovich, Kalichenko Igor Viktorovich, Ivanov Sergey Anatolievich, Karmazin Yuri Anatolievich, Kostinyuk Bogdan Ivanovich, Majko Vitaliy Ivanovich, Manchulenko Georgiy Manolojovich, Mirimsky Lev Yuliyovich, Nadraga Vasil Ivanovic, Ryabikin Pavel Borisovich, Ryabik Vladimir Leonidovich, Sitnik Kostintin Merkuriyovich, Sobolev Sergej Vladimirovich, Cicavil Taras Vyacheslavovich, Cicanov Sergei and Shevchuk Serg Vladimirovich. I have to remind once again our National Deputies who are a member of the Counting Commission approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because some members of the Counting Commission have forgotten that they are members of this college body. I'm asking literally in five minutes to meet in the city I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we can work this out: The Counting Commission will now prepare the necessary documents. At 13 o'clock, we're going to take a 30-minute break, and during this break, we're going to conduct the vote in an orderly fashion to get the search results. Dear colleagues, before we go to the main issue, I would like to inform you that the two factions are the People's Union, our Ukraine and the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party require a 30-minute recess. In accordance with the Rules, they may take a 30 - minute break or make a statement immediately. Will Vladimir Bondarenko be speaking? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u4	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Radio and Television Watchers! On March 27, 2005, Kiev will hold the election of Deputy Kyivrada in District 60. These are the first elections in the capital after the Orange Revolution, and the Chinese have the right to rely on their honesty and transparency. Regrettably, the specified electoral process has turned into a chain of violations of law and disrespect for the electorate. Kyivrad, which is controlled by the Unity Party, as in previous years, has formed an electoral commission from representatives of small public organizations, not including the submission of real political forces, and in particular parliamentary parties. Compared to the last presidential election, when the regime put forward its candidate with an odious political figure with a dark past, the Kyiv city authorities bet Anatolia Mukhovicov, a participant of the most powerful land scandals in the desert of Vodica, Conchi Zasp and Feofany, one of the organizers of the crime of looting thousands of hectares of protected Kyiv lands. All the administrative resources were thrown out to fight for the power candidate. As recently as in the movie theater "Zoryany" and the House of Officers, where the public receptionist candidate for the Presidents was operating, a public reception centre was immediately opened in the territory of the Kyiv constituency, along with the mayor, where voters were promised to solve any of their problems. Free bus routes began to travel to the district, with drivers explaining this kind of charity with special affection for the voters on the side of Mukhovkov. As in the previous elections, the city government has promised to start reconstruction of Kiev's cartilage, but this time it's from the microregion where the elections will take place. Dozens of community officials, instead of cleaning up the snow, will sweep the frozen land, placing children’s playgrounds as gifts to the local baby from the Kiev authorities. In recent weeks alone, hundreds of media outlets have emerged in favour of and against the government's opponents in the city's budget-funded media. Any complaints or appeals made by the electoral commission and the court shall be rejected without explanation. And despite all of this, the candidate of power had no chance of being elected in this district, and then the last, most valuable argument of the administrative machine was used: two days before the election, the Delhi District Court, on the basis of a statement by one of the candidates, cancelled the registration of the representative of Viktor Yuschenk "Our Ukraine", head of the district headquarters of Peter Golovatenko, who had the greatest support of the electorate. This was done in the face of existing legislation, which provides for the consideration of similar claims not in court but only in election committees, and only in the term for the prosecution. The court took advantage of the complainant’s completely premeditated arguments and failed to take into account any evidence of defence. In the same way, the Kiev authorities and the 2002 elections, when more than 800 candidates from the Victor Yushchenk Block were simultaneously removed, provided victory in the areas and city councils of the Unity Party led by Mr. Omelchenk. The organizers of the trial of Yashchenka’s representative, Peter Golovatenko, clearly realize that such decisions are not subject to prosecution and therefore act as a head shot. The election events in Kiev for the first time have shown that the irreversible Kiev authorities not only do not eradicate the kushmew-Kiwalov technology of manipulating the will of the electorate, but cynically enriches their arsenal. We believe that these actions are unacceptable and extremely dangerous for the 2006 local and parliamentary elections and require special analysis and conclusions, both in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in the law enforcement authorities and the CBC. We will understand the actions of China to defend democracy and freedom of choice in the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! A draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine and some other legislative acts is being announced for consideration. Honorary colleagues, Ukrainian National Deputies and the Budget Committee have made a number of proposals regarding the procedure for reviewing the bill. More specifically, this refers to the procedure of voting for the adoption of the law. But let's do it this way, dear fellows, when we begin our consideration of the matter, let's discuss it, and as we discuss it, we will then determine what decision we are going to make, and all the proposals made by the people's deputies, we will put them to the vote, in accordance with the Rules. Now, let's do the question. No warning? I see it's out of procedure. Please sign up, Your Honor. Let's do five minutes of procedure. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! Dear Prime Minister Julia Timoshenko! I expected you to go on television yesterday and make a statement about the brutal aggression that the Ukrainian country experienced yesterday when one of the Russian Federation's friendly warships invaded our territory and landed an armed gunship along with combat vehicles. Why didn't you do it? I'm addressing you, Julia Volodymyrna! I'm also addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as one of the highest officials, and I'm also addressing President Viktor Yushchenk, and I want this evaluated and our citizens to be calm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I'm here because my last name was, I want to respond. We have such fine information among the branches of government that I received a corresponding message, like all of you, dear colleagues, on television. And we're watching television at home after 21 hours, which is to say that we should immediately put on the news, including the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I fully agree with you in this regard so that we can have complete information and respond accordingly. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u8	5 constituency, Ukrainian Comparty faction, Mironenko. I would ask all the deputies not to arouse passion between the two States of Ukraine-Russia and to remember that we have been and will be together. And it is only the deterioration of the lives of our people, the decline of the economy, etc. But I would also like to ask two questions to the head of the Government of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yulia Vladimirovne. The first question, Julia Vladimirovna, why was the preparation, preparation, preparation for the introduction to the Supreme Council of this bill, so important and so prompt? And second on income, don't you think you're going to get the enterprises by taking a huge chunk of revenue and then you're going to let everyone privatize, which is scary for the economy and the people? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u9	Sergey Larine, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u10	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u11	Valerius Konovaluk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First, we also applied for a break yesterday, but unfortunately we didn't get it, and we had to hear what was happening now, how someone wanted to lead the Kiev City Council. Let them refer to the Bank and make arrangements at the Secretariat. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I also want to understand what kind of bill we're going to be considering today, I have the one that was handed out today and the one that was given out on Tuesday. Registration numbers are the same, but dates are different. And this bill has very few details and changes, and I want the Regulatory Committee to be able to explain to the people's deputies: how are we going to take this? How is the law that has been introduced to replace the previously introduced bill? Or if you look at it, it's actually a nonsensence that we have one registration number for two different bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate that at the request of the two factions there may be, I would like to emphasize, a break may be announced, but when we are not in the process of dealing with the issue. Valérie Illich, an honorary colleague, we completed our consideration of the matter, after which we were told of a break. Well, you shouldn't have interrupted the problem we discussed. If it offends you, please excuse me. As for the bill that we have to consider, I think that in the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budgets should say that. One of the first intercessors you appear to be. Basil Nadrag, People's Party faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the People's Party faction today, as it was all days before, discussed from this morning the issue that we will discuss: the 2005 budget. Our position is as follows: so far, the proposed amendments have several things that are truly satisfying there on social issues. However, there are a number of issues related to the economy, finance, industrial development, and social issues that we want to discuss in more detail, and our position, the People's Party factions, is based on the fact that our factions are constantly working in the Committee on Budgets and, accordingly, they provide us with qualified advice: how they relate to these issues. On the basis of the foregoing, the People's Party is proposing that the budget be reviewed today and that all contentious issues be dealt with in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to agree on regulations now, please, on the rules of procedure. This is a proposal by the Committee on Budgets: a report by Finance Minister Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenika, within 30 minutes, answers to questions by the Minister of Finance, within 20 minutes, a report by the First Vice-President of the Committee on Budget Issues Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna, up to 15 minutes; answers to questions by 15 minutes; a report by the Committee on Finance and Banking, to be delivered by Vitaly Yuriovich Hometinnik, respectively, 15 and 15 minutes. Next statements from the committees: Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko - up to 5 minutes; Committee on Social Policy and Work Hara Vasil Grigorovich - up to 5 minutes; Cibenko Peter Stepanovich Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons - up to 5 minutes; Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Matvinko Valentin Grigorovic - up to 5 minutes. One minute, I'll tell you right now, one minute. Dear colleagues, one minute. Head of the Chamber of Auditors Simonenko Valentin Kostinović - up to 5 minutes; Head of the National Bank Stelma Vladimir Semenović - up to 5 minutes; presentations by representatives of parliamentary groups and factions, Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputies of Ukraine - up to 90 minutes; decision-making - up to 30 minutes. Dear colleagues, what you're suggesting, I'm asking you to listen carefully, this is about making a decision, and this is about the rules of procedure. Please. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to emphasize that Oleg Grigorovich is expensive, and a number of decisions have been made to move away from the established rules in the decision-making part. [[One minute, I'll tell you, you'll fix me]] These decisions, a few of them, I'll call them to you right now. The first recorded decree of the national deputy Gorbachev, who proposes to adopt the bill only in the first reading. [[Registration number 7221-P]] But we haven't discussed it yet, but we're talking about making a decision. Next, there is a project proposed by Yuri Borisovich Klukkowski. He suggests that we accept both the first and the second readings as well as the rules for dealing with the matter. In addition, there is a project submitted by national deputy Slabenko. This is a similar document. One minute, I know everything. The next moment. This is a bill of national deputies Korsakova and Slavuta who propose to send a document for further elaboration. And finally, a bill introduced by the national deputy of Chernobyl that proposes to be sent for processing. And besides, your honorary colleagues, there's a bill in the form of a draft decree of 7221-p3, which has been introduced. Dear colleagues, one minute, calm down. Who was introduced by both the committee and supported by the Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, this is what we're going to do now that we've got one minute, please listen. I want to tell you passionately don't follow orders like that. I and the Prime Minister, if you want, had a conversation, we agreed that we should have a broad schedule today to discuss the issue so that the MPs can speak. If you want to push the budget forward without discussing it, let's put it to the vote and vote now. Is that what you want? So let's say that. And I think the people's deputies should at least make a statement. If they are no longer able to influence the budget position, say so. Please don't disturb me. Please, if you want to break the question, let's take a break. If you'd like, please. So we're going to spend the whole day discussing these regulations, you know? Is that what you want? Please sign up, five minutes. I'll give you a line. Please, Grigorovitch. Lilia Stepanovna, please give it to Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Paul Stepanovich Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u17	Paul Stepanovich Kachur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. It seems to me that when we consider drafts, we should step out of our efforts to achieve the best compromise both for the session room and for cooperation with the government. So I ask you to put forward the first bill proposed by the Committee on Budgets. The budget committee consists of representatives of all parliamentary groups and factions, which is where we could find the best compromise that would reflect the position of the Supreme Council. I propose that we consider this motion for a ruling first. It also provides for order, it foresees a time to discuss and representatives, faction leaders, and people's deputies, and it seems to me that this is the best way to compromise on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if we put to the vote, only the decisions in order to register and arrive. That's the first one. The other one. Paul Stepanovich, second, I want to say that the First Deputy Head of the Budget Committee, Ludmila Pavelna Suprun, has proposed the rules that I read to you. So it turns out that the two of us have regulations to consider? Please, Loboda, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u20	May I have Matthew Valentine Grigorovitch, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u21	Valentin Grigorvovich Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I address you. Some former national deputies, and today members of the government, I think, have forgotten where their place is today, so they walk freely around the hall, conducting some active negotiations. I would ask you, first of all, to call them to order. That's the first one. Second of all, it's about discussing the question. The proposed order of discussion, i.e. the rules for the consideration of this bill, is by the Committee on Budgets. And we have to follow the proposed order: first of all, give this opportunity. to express their opinion on this law as many national deputies as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u23	National Deputy Korsakov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u25	Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We support the proposed budget rules, and we understand and hope for constructive consideration. But I would like us to inform the deputies that the proposals of factions and deputies are included in this budget, because we don't have any comparative table at all. That's the first one. Secondly, we make changes not only to the budget but also to other legislative acts. And a very large number of these bills that apply to taxes and benefits. And I think we should also consider the issues of the Committee of Finance and Banking, not just the budget. And this will determine how much the budget itself will then be balanced if the Supreme Council does not support those or other bills. So I think that we should, today, have a plenary session, devote the entire day to this in order to take all the comments into account and accept the final ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u27	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I would like to repeat to you the position of the faction of the People's Party. We believe that we must start to consider the budget and work it out in all the contentious issues that exist today between Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers or between individual political forces in Parliament. On the other hand, I would like to address all today's deputies present and participating in the budget process. Dear colleague, what are we doing here? We are finding out the situation concerning the procedure, and we have already spent a lot of time on this subject rather than now finding out the specific things that are being budgeted, why they are being proposed, what motivation for their implementation and what can be done to improve the situation. Therefore, in returning to the original theme, as well as to what needs to be done, the faction of the People's Party believes that we should start to consider the budget. During the discussion, it will be clear that when and when we accept it as a final document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u29	Mikola Karnauh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u30	Thank you. We support the budget process. And given that our faction's proposals are taken into account, we'll support it. But I would like to point out that some of the provisions of the draft law that do not contain either the expense or the income part do not affect them, along with which the rights of legal and natural persons are violated. I mean the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers to amend article 10.74 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. I believe that this norm, which is no burden but violates the rights of natural and legal persons, must be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u31	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, first of all, I would like to point out that it's really time to move on to the budget. And most of all, what we need to understand right now is that there's got to be a statement by the Cabinet of Ministers, then the Budget Committee. And all those who sign up from factions and committees can comment on the time remaining. Because that's always been the case, and the process of discussion is that every national MP has the opportunity to speak on the committees in which he works, and to stand up for the opinion of the committee and every national deputy in the discussion will be a representative of the committee. And once again, support Supreme Council Order 7221. And to be able, this is the ruling of the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Budgets, which is the delegation of all political and group factions. So I think this is the best way to reach consensus in the room so that we can discuss it and allow us to adopt today's necessary social budget for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I can't see. Sophia Pavlovna Suprun, please. Let them finally tell us what the position of the committee is. Is Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun? As long as Assadchev's lineup, I mentioned the name Assadchev. Now, one minute, Asadchev's lineup, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u34	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is, I want out of the filing procedure. Now we've been given a new budget, there's no committee working with it, there's no comparative table, we don't even know what's in it, what's not in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, and what's in it. Well, that's not how it's done. Next, we went to meet the government. And we've done a comparative table of deputies before we've considered it faster, but there's also no table in the room. No one can see what suggestions are taken into account, which are out of the question. How can we do this? It's a new budget given, it's going to have to meet the committee again with the government, work out a new table. We can't accept the budget that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u35	Ludmila Pavlovna's wife, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to see the process of discussing the changes proposed to tax legislation and to the budget still find their reflection in the Supreme Council Hall. We need to start a discussion. What kind of decision we're going to make after a discussion or in the process of discussion -- the first reading, the rejection, the redrafting, the adoption as a whole as a law -- depends on the room, and so it's perfectly fair to ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to start a discussion on the rules proposed by the budgetary committee: reports, answers to questions, reports from committee representatives and so on. With this proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we will begin the discussion and in the process of considering this document in the session room, the MPs will determine what decision to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Well, maybe we'll meet in the position that has just been sounded by the Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Committee on Budget Affairs. Dear colleagues, we are now criticizing or supporting the budget. Let's talk about him now. And in order to talk, we need some time, because if we start voting ad hoc right now, I don't think we're going to make any decisions. The point is that, according to the Budget Code, you know, it says, "The consideration and adoption by the Supreme Council of bills amending the National Budget Act of Ukraine is similar to the procedure for the adoption of any draft law. The Budget Committee prepares a bill for the first, second, and, if necessary, for the third reading if it is not approved by the Supreme Council in the first or second reading." So when we're discussing a bill, then we're going to determine how we're going to decide whether we're going to take the first reading or whether we're going to take the law as a whole. This will require consensus in the session room. So we need to start talking about the budget now. Well, we just talked about it for a reason, Nestor Ivanovich! Well, as an exception, you don't mind, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, I'll give you a good idea. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u38	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, why ed hoc is being proposed right now. If we go into the budget process, we'll actually start the first reading of the issue and then logically the MPs will say that ed hoc should be voted on before the issue is considered essentially. And then, consciously, when we vote ed hoc, we are aware that we have deprived ourselves of the right to make changes, because we have had the opportunity to do so before. These were strict terms, but everyone who wanted to, made proposals and didn't have to spin here, you have to be honest, or we want to support pension and salary rises, or we don't want to hide behind procedures. This position is at least direct, open and concrete.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal ed hoc refers to the decision-making procedure. The MPs now claim that some of them have not seen the comparative tables, but they are asked to vote on what they will decide. Let's take a look at the bill, and when we go to the decision-making process, we're going to figure out and everyone will figure out what his position is. And if we now vote that we make a decision in the first and second readings and then we put it to a vote and we don't make a decision, so that's it. I'd like to take that warning off. And once again, I would like to stress the rules proposed by the committee. For a report of 30 minutes, answers to questions of 20 minutes, two 15-minute reports and answers to questions of 15 minutes, speak to the main committees on budget change, this is the Committee on Economic Policy, Social Policy, Pensioners and Veterans, Rules and Deputies in 5 minutes, the Court of Auditors in 5 minutes, from the National Bank of Ukraine in 5 minutes, the discussions from the Deputies and the factions, the Committees of National Deputies in 90 minutes, the conclusion of the question, i.e. the decision-making process, is proposed for up to 30 minutes. No warning? Let's get to it. Ukraine’s Finance Minister, Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, is invited to the report. Victor Mikhailovich, please. I ask the distinguished national deputies to work, and those who are no longer members of the national parliament, please do not go into the session room. This is an urgent request from the Regulatory Committee, the chairman. Yes. Victor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Julius Volodymyr, Ukrainian national deputies, dear compatriots, today the Government is presenting a document that is an important step in the implementation of President Viktor Yashchenk's program. The President of Ukraine set up a task for the government: to make the budget what it should be -- a document to ensure a decent life for the common people. A document that answers the most vicious questions of our lives, a document in which every Ukrainian citizen feels his or her own interests. When the government started developing the budget, we didn't approach the budget as a simple balance. We've come up with a budget, in line with the President's mandate, as a document that affects the interests of society as a whole. And the document given to you today sets out the following basic goals: First. Eliminating budget balance and achieving it without deficit. The other one. The end of Ukraine’s debt growth The third goal is a just pension. The fourth goal is a step towards decent pay. The fifth goal is to overcome poverty. The sixth goal is to fight corruption. The seventh target is state property for the people. The eighth target. The new budget sector support policy. The ninth target. Returning to Self - Future Spiritual Directions Target four. Tax levels. When we came up with the budget, the government faced a situation of serious balance. Please show me the following material. The approved budget for this year provides for an income of 89.1 billion dollars, a expenditure of 97.7 or a budget deficit of 8.6 billion dollars. We want to point out that in this budget, the total cost of pension payments was not included at a level of 295 dollars. You and I know that the relevant law, which was recently passed, provides for a minimum pension of 332 bracelets. Costs in the current budget, resources are not available. When we started developing the budget, the budget deficit was almost 33 billion dollars or 8 percent to gross domestic product. Today we are presenting a document with a budget deficit of 6.8 billion or an income figure of 108.5 billion, government budget expenditure of 115.3 or a deficit of 6.8 billion dollars. The second goal is to end debt growth. The current budget envisions an increase in Ukraine’s debt of 2.8 billion dollars because the amount of the loan is 11.7 billion, the amount of the loan of 8.9 or the increase of 2.8 billion. The bill you've been given provides for a zero increase in debt, in other words, debt will not grow. The amount of the loan is 8.9 billion, the amount of the debt is 8.9 billion. The third objective of the budget is a just pension. It is achieved through the following tools put into the draft budget. The current budget does not provide nearly two billion dollars in pension payments. The draft budget, which you are given, provides for payment of the minimum amount of pensions, and is provided with a resource of 332 bracelets. In the current budget, the absolute majority of pensioners will receive the same pension. We couldn't get past the problem of the fact that the pension had become a comparison. That is why I would like to draw attention to the following material. With a minimum pension of 332 bracelets, the average pension will be 383 bracelets. In other words, by introducing a minimum pension of 332 bracelets from January 1st, we are also introducing the differentiation of pensions from earnings. So the pension balance cancels. The amount of payments to be made to retirees in the first quarter of January was foreseen in the budget. As a result of this decision, we are sharply reducing the number of pensioners who will receive the same pension. Today, under current legislation, 83 percent of pensioners receive the same pension. Under the draft budget, this figure is going down twice -- just 44 percent. The fourth objective of the budget is a step towards decent pay. You know that paradox that's formed between wages and pensions. Last year, the minimum wage was 237 dollars, the minimum pension was 284. Today, the minimum wage of 262, at the same time, is a minimum pension law of 332 bracelets. Disbalance. But it's nonsense. When the minimum wage is below the minimum pension. The budget project given to you provides that the minimum wage and minimum pension in Ukraine will be equal to 332 bracelets. And so we have a number of decisions that enable us to get the Pension Fund out of the crisis while at the same time addressing a number of issues that we have in the budget area. That's why you can see that the draft budget provides for a pre-eminent increase in minimum wage compared to pensions. The minimum wage will increase further this year by 40 percent and the budget salary by 57 percent. Here's the next material. A decision that raises the minimum wage by 40 percent, and the average wage for doctors, teachers, cultural workers, scientists increases by 57 percent, means that we not only take a step back to the problems of culture, science, education, but we begin to differentiate wages or raise the prestige of skilled work. In other words, the gap between the minimum wage and the highly paid categories of workers will increase. These decisions, which are budgeted, seriously reduce the wage gap between the budget and the economy. If the average wage in the budget is 71 percent of the average wage in the current budget, the average wage in the budget area will be 87 percent of the average wage in the proposed budget. Next material. If we did not change our budget approach and take into account current pension legislation, the State budget would have to be set aside 31 percent of the funds in order for the Pension Fund to pay pensions. The changes we're proposing after the Pension Fund's bailout to increase salary in the budget and in the economy reduce the share of the budget that will have to be allocated to the Pension Fund to 23 percent. From these figures, you see that the problem that we have at the Pension Fund is a problem for years. Even next year, we will not be able to make it possible for the Pension Fund to pay its own pensions. But we have already taken a serious step so that the Pension Fund can independently address the problem of pension payments to Ukrainian pensioners. Overcoming poverty, please show the table. Unfortunately, our society has been going through problems for years that we had no right to go past. These problems affect many branches of Ukrainian society. Maybe you don't all see the list of social programs that relate to child support, childbearing, single mothers, disabled children, children with disabilities, orphans, scholarships, money provision for military personnel, so let's just illustrate a few serious programs by which the government will take serious steps to solve them. The child’s birth rate is nearly 12 times higher, up to 8,500. In other words, the President's stated rule is that we're going to pay this amount in the budget. Aid to single mothers is increasing 4.1 times, aid to children with disabilities from 6 to 18 is increasing 4.5 times compared to last year's. Helping orphans, pay attention, dear friends, today the orphan child gets 90 bracelets. At this cost, it's not possible to survive, it's a totally small sum. The government has found the resources to increase this aid 5.2 times. A child between the ages of 6 and 18 will receive 468 dollars. The military’s financial provisions increase from 19 to 57 dollars, or three times. The sixth objective of the government's budget project is to fight corruption. We foresee a number of measures to address the causes of corruption. Some measures are already reflected in the budget, some we are preparing for submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is about the adoption of a new law on government purchases: purely by open procedure, with the sole criterion of price, with the right to lower initial prices. The draft law will soon be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. An important element of this program is the replacement of direct budget lending to policies for the loss of interest on bank loans that go towards solving one or the other. It's not just a serious additional resource that we can channel to the budget sectors, on the other hand, it's an element of eliminating corruption. The third element is the cancellation of mutual tax claims. We inform you that the government has cancelled 35 regulations that have either granted tax benefits to individual operators or allowed you to carry out interrelationships with a well - known discount. Reducing import duties is also an element of removing corruption. Public reports to the public about spending public and local budgets, as well as the main funds managers. We inform you that for the first time in Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance has submitted a report on the expenditure of the budget to the public, to the citizens of Ukraine. By April 15, such reports will be made by each chief budget officer. Raising the salaries of civil servants, law enforcement agencies and courts is also part of the anti-corruption agenda. Approval of the financial plans of state-owned enterprises. Until the last day, no one in the country has known what kind of traffic government enterprises are making, what costs, why profits are disappearing. This is also an important element in the fight against corruption. The seventh target is state property for the people. In Ukraine, there was no de facto state property. It's state property. It's private property. The revenue of government companies, profits, is virtually zero or small. With a view to making state ownership the acquisition of the entire nation, becoming a tool for filling the income of the budget, and providing income for property, the following goals are set. First. Approval of state-owned and state-owned financial plans 50 plus 1 share, 50 percent. The other one. Counting down to the State Budget, 50 percent of the net profit of state-owned and comparable enterprises. This is about the government's income as its owner. The third element. Competitive selection of directors of state and comparable enterprises It's the fourth time. Transfer of directors of state-owned enterprises to new payment systems as a percentage of net profit. In other words, we give company managers a legal tool to earn without looking for different kinds of schemes. The more money you bring to the state, the more money you get. The fifth element. The purchasing regime that we're going to propose to adopt as a law for spending the budget we're going to propose for both state-owned and casino-owned enterprises. The eighth objective of the budget project is the new budget sector policy. We're going to show it in a couple of examples. For example, long term and short term loans to an agrarian complex. The government proposes to increase the amount of funds allocated to the agrarian sector for the cost of credit by 130 million dollars. What this means to the village. This means an opportunity for the Ukrainian village to invest additional resources in a variety of programs for 1 billion 300 million dollars because the government is only losing interest on loans. It can illustrate the essence of this policy in yet another program. In the previous budget, the cost of creating new jobs for coal workers amounted to 107 million dollars. We're saving that amount, but we're proposing that it be completely set aside for the cost of the loans. This means that the resource that we can use to solve the problems of miners is going to be $1 billion.70 million. Or ten times more. The ninth purpose of a return to self - centered spiritual orientation. The new budget, despite a number of difficulties with the financial system, introduces a number of new programs, medicine in the countryside. We know what kind of situation she's in, and the government has found an opportunity to make the first gesture to restore medicine in the country. This appropriation is set out for these purposes. The second problem is homeless children. We have no right to see in silence that thousands of our little fellow countrymen are left unattended, wandering the streets. In this regard, the government proposes to launch a new programme, entitled “The Homeless Children, ” to which it allocates 70 million. We're starting a new bookkeeping program. Supporting the Ukrainian reserves with what we left to our children, grandchildren, is the wealth that we now have in Ukraine. Museum arsenal and tithe church, 70 million On behalf of the President, these programmes are already being implemented and adopted by the government. We've included a new programme in the draft budget, support for the literary and artistic period, and we're talking about literary magazines that aren't able to survive on their own today and need financial support. This chapter seriously reinforces several other programs, primarily the production of films 2.2 times. We want to point out that all our ministers are new to all budget programmes. What are we talking about? Ukraine should order, hold a competition, take out a great script, good movies, and the government is ready to increase the financing of their own production. The Ukrainian language support program has been increased by 50 percent, the gifted children's program, which allows talent to be picked up twice, the Ukrainian Diaspora program, in the budget, we increase funding eleven times. Many of our fellow countrymen live scattered throughout the world. And it's not about traditional, it's about diaspora, it's about diaspora that lives in hundreds of countries around the world. We need to work together, we need to bring these people closer together, who have been abandoned by fate for various reasons with their own home land. The tenth goal is the equality of tax conditions we'll consider a little bit later. What resources did the Government manage to balance the budget? First of all, there's an increase in income due to changes in macroeconomics. The budget, which was approved by the Supreme Council, was based on the gross domestic product of 409 billion dollars. At the same time, last year's reporting rate was 332 billion. After the end of the year, Minstat gave us statistics, the baseline was not 332, but 346 billion. In this regard, as well as the change in GDP dynamics, the gross domestic product we have calculated is 436 billion, not 409. This is, in this context, we have recalculated the revenue lines of the budget, and you see a total of revenue from government, local budgets, non-budgetary social insurance and pension funds. According to the government budget, the increase in income is 6 billion. You can see that the income increase is under the pension fund is 4.2 billion. The total revenue increase for all state funds is 12 billion dollars. The second article, the next, please skip, move on, move on. The second resource element is the revenue that the government is planning to get from the public sector. Last year we got a little over 600 million dollars. Now we're planning a figure that's 5 billion dollars bigger. And the financial plans of the enterprises that we're looking at right now in the Cabinet of Ministers allow us to say that we're going to get this money. The next item, the cancellation of special preferential tax conditions for operators, or the tenth objective of our draft budget presented to you. Please show me the 32nd picture. Dear friends, I ask you to pay attention to our tax field. It's a complete grid. The first column is import duty, the second column is VAT, the third column is income tax, the fourth is land and the fifth is excise. On the left is a list, a block count of groups, non - paying landowners. Look at the crosses. There is no tax payment in all of these blocks. The Ukrainian budget is a complete grid, which. Because the legislation gave a possible mass of entities not to pay taxes. We're going to show you a little bit more about how these separate groups of holes happen. Free economic zones. There are no taxes in 11 free economic zones. You see a list of holes where taxes are not paid. Next. Areas of priority development. In nine priority areas, no one pays taxes. You see crosses that don't pay taxes. 15 tech parks don't pay taxes, no taxes, no income taxes. And let us introduce you to some of the materials, some of the activities of those who use the benefits. This is extremely important when we often hear that these companies need support. We will present you with information on commitments in free areas, priority areas, and technology parks. When they talk about giving us benefits in free economic zones they promised and guaranteed that 987 million dollars would be invested, 306 were invested. In the areas of priority development, 5.7 billion dollars were invested in the Ukrainian economy. In technology parks, $993 million, 395. And we're talking about companies that are profitable. Let me introduce you to the data we received from the Ukrainian State Tax Administration. Auto-ZAZ, which uses the benefits. In 2003, this company earned 318 million dollars. It's a profitable company, and for some reason, it uses the benefits. In 2004, the company’s profits amounted to 698 million dollars. And this company uses benefits. Let me read you the entire amount of aid that this company is using. In 2004, this is the State Tax Administration's manual, the company received a total of 2 billion 19 million dollars, including a $141 million income tax, 238 million in the Excise Congregation. Taxation of VAT, zero rate, 1 billion 311.8 million dollars. In doing so, the company gets normal profits, and the average wage on the tax return is 1,025 dollars. We can. You could raise your salary a lot more. The income that this company has, the esteemed communists, take a pen, count 700 million dollars for the number of employees, and how much extra wages the AutoZAZA workers could get. Let me show you some of the other structures. For example, in technology parks. In 2003, the parks of technology received 128 million dollars of income. During the nine months of 2004, they received 168 million dollars. We can give you data on the subjects of farming, individual subjects. It's said that the intent is to invest in the Ukrainian economy, and that's what this is all about for the budget. As soon as the programme was approved, the WEO "Kiev Konti" made a commitment to pay $28 million in Ukraine's budget. Tax dollars, pay 5.4. A limited company called Metallurg made a commitment under the programme of nearly 12 million. Money, pay $219 000 in the budget. That's right. The Society with limited responsibility for Rebirth has assumed the obligation to pay 37.4 million, it pays 26. The Kyiv area, the Dataxpaper stock company, made a commitment under the investment project to pay 13.4 million in the Ukrainian budget. The bracelet, it paid 189 grand. And we have a huge list of other subjects who, after receiving the benefits, use them not to solve the tasks they have taken, but to avoid taxation. And for the government, is it not understandable that the costs of Ukrainian citizens — doctors, teachers, pensioners — go to completely profitable companies? The last block of questions I'd like to pay attention to. A serious change in wages. How does the public and local budget get the load? The overall increase in the cost of wage increases and other social costs is 8.5 billion. Money, of which 4.7 billion Or 56 percent of it belongs to the State Budget. The thing is, the government budget is holding the military's money, and that's $1 billion. 180 million Part of the local budget is 3 billion. 716 million So that's equal to 44 percent. And please note the resources of the local budgets: are there balanced local budgets with pay opportunities? I'll remind you again: the increase in local budget spending on wages is 3.7 billion. Local budgets increase by 4.8. What is this resource section made up of? First, 1.6 billion dollars is the income of local budgets as a result of changes in macroeconomics and tax legislation. The second part is the surplus of transfers from the State budget or the surplus of overpayments that we allocate from the State budget to local budgets minus eliminations is 1.7 billion. The third is the state's salary budget, the funds that are budgeted for wage tariffs, to raise the prestige of skilled work. This total cost is 1 billion 400 million dollars. 850 million are foreseen for local budgets from the State Budget for Tariffs or for increasing the prestige of skilled work, for increasing tariff rates. And the subsidy balance is plus 0.7. Three more minutes please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we're putting a lot of stress on our hands, and we're taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u41	Please allow the Minister of Finance to finish his statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u42	We put the government in line with the President of Ukraine's mandate to take a serious step in the social sphere. We found solutions from the issues discussed on the budget committee and many parliamentary groups and factions. I want to inform you about another agreed position, because it causes discussion and requires a separate additional study, we take it down, we propose to withdraw the Civil Code rule from the draft budget. We'll look at it separately. There's a problem here, and we're agreed on by the national MPs, and so that we don't have too much discussion about the arrest of accounts, we're going to consider it after the budget, in other words, we're going to remove it from this document. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the product, the document that has been discussed with all the parliamentary groups and factions on the budget committee, the other committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will today become our common product. And today we're going to give the citizens of Ukraine good social surprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the report of the Minister of Finance has been completed. Please sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. 20 minutes as agreed. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Palo Stepanovich Kachur, Our Ukraine, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u44	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, when we discussed the budget in the Committee on Budgets, we introduced a separate subsidy, which is set at 200 million to dissipate the network. At the same time, in the discussion, we stressed that, aside from the net imbalance, there is a imbalance between the income and the expenditure portions, because the revenue forecast is not always able to be calculated correctly. I have a question for you: do you not think that this subsidy, without increasing the costs, would give the local authorities the right to direct and cover the gaps that would arise from the miscalculated income section? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u45	Thank you. The government met the problem in the local budgets, and we allocated an additional subsidy of 200 million dollars. And we're ready to discuss it in the future. Secondly, we do local budgets in case they have a first basket deviation. This happens automatically. Every month from the Budget, we count the local budgets, the cost gap that arises from the deviation from the calculation base. And it's almost automatic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u46	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u47	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster I have the impression that this budget was based on the famous principle of Popandopala: "It's me, and it's me, it's me, it's me. And what happens to you, we'll see it again. An example. Geological Survey. The funding was estimated at 300 million dollars. They left 200. All 230 million to drill artesian wells, it's like every host in their own garden drilling wells. Finally, there's going to be something that's going to destroy this sector almost under the roots, and finally there's going to be preparations for bankruptcy and its "acquisition". Is that how you acted in other ways?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! First of all, we would like to emphasise that this budget provides answers to the demands of the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens. You won't find any budget documents that would have taken such a serious step both in salary and in pensions and in social pay. And that's what you call "you." To you, citizens of Ukraine! Pensioners, doctors, teachers, scientists, orphans, disabled people! This is for you, citizens of Ukraine. And by the way, the teacher's increase of 57 percent is something they've never come up with. With regard to geological intelligence, note that as a result of the development of the draft budget, we have responded to this problem and increased the accounting standards used for exploration work from 50 percent to 75 percent. Or almost 100 million dollars in the budget that you're given increased the resources to solve the problems of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u49	Vasil Ivanovich Potapov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u50	Victor Mikhailovich! A meeting of the Ukrainian City Association was held yesterday. On the budget committee, when we slept with you, we had a heated discussion about the difference in your vision, namely, the Ministry of Finance, and the vision of the local budget subcommittee of the Committee on the financing of local budgets. The price difference is $2 billion. And today, the Ministry of Finance is trying to get away from this issue. Please tell me why the Ministry of Finance is refusing a real meeting with local budget officials, city mayors. Yesterday, Anatoly Sergeevich Matvienko stated that they would not vote in favour of the budget. I'd like to hear from you when we meet with you with local budgets to figure out this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u51	Vasil Ivanovich, we will meet after we have received the budget, have a drink, and talk to the local budgets. Dear friends, I would like to inform you, first of all, today the Prime Minister of Ukraine has met with representatives of local self-government. We had a conversation yesterday with the mayor of Kyiv, Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenko, where we agreed. Thirdly, I ask you to show again 39 graphs, 39 graphs. These figures were not against the budget committee. Let me remind you once again that in order for local budgets to do all the work on wages and other social programs, it's going to take $3.7 billion. Local budget resources, first resource article, “The Income of Local Budgets” as a result of macroeconomic change, 1.6 billion. The second resource, Vasil Ivanovich, take the budget and you'll figure out by this document that we're increasing transportation from the state budget, that's a couple of lines compared to the budget, by 1.7 billion, that's 3.3. Next, Vasil Ivanovich, you'll find 1.4 billion grand in the budget. To increase wages, of which $850 million. We're handing over local budgets, that's 4.1 billion grand. All these numbers are in your document. And plus the subsidy balance, plus 0.7 of the total local budget base, increases by 4.8 billion, to 3.7 billion. The money that goes on the payroll. In other words, another resource that will be at the disposal of local budgets one and one. In addition, we talked to you about the question asked by Paul Stepanovich Kachur, that the government had taken a step towards meeting local self-government, and we had foreseen 200 million dollars for dealing with wage issues, and not just with wages, local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u52	Viktor Mikhailovich, too, I also met today with the mayors of the cities of Kharkiv, not Kyiv, but the Kharkiv region, so small, so small, where, for today, 40% of all the assignments that have already been used. And if we take it now and don't anticipate it, then they don't know what they're gonna live for. Today, we're at the Committee, with our heads, with the committee's staff, and we're looking at about two billion dollars, and we're probably thinking about this kind of place. Please, Master Vladimir Jakovic. It's just like a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u53	Vladimir Mystrishyn, National Party, Head of State Debt. Victor Mikhailovich, we had a discussion with you on the Committee on Budgets, and I was just focusing on the fact that the government has decided today to give up external borrowing, and the price of these borrowings is much better, especially after the events that took place in Ukraine. Ukraine has become a famous country, is there no strategic issues to be resolved in Ukraine today? Including the construction of gas pipelines, in the village it's much stronger social protection than just handing out money today. The second position is the position of the communal sphere. It's lending the utility to energy conservation, it's lending the budget area to energy conservation, and I see we've made a decision on scrutinization after allocating the funds. There is no such decision today, although the Committee has made a responsible decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Jakovic, first of all, when we are borrowing, we are guided by simple logic: The government is tasked with managing the cost of Ukrainian citizens. And our government's approach will always be the same. If you can borrow cheaper, the government will borrow cheaper. We're informing you that the last loan made by the government, we borrowed money from the Ukrainian market, released seven-year bonds with a percentage of 6.74 years old. In the near future, we'll make another loan. And we expect an even cheaper loan. Please tell us, what should we borrow in the euro, in dollars in other countries, at rates that are not lower? We have a guaranteed stake today in Ukraine of 6.7 percent. Why should we borrow dollars or euros? It's different. Which one of us can make a seven-year forecast. What will be done with the dollar or the euro? That is why we will develop and borrow in the conjuncture that has developed in the Ukrainian market because it is cheaper. Second moment, why we're borrowing here. If we borrow in the West, interest is given to Western banks, and taxes come from these interest rates in the budgets of Germany, Britain, and other countries. When we pay our borrowers, our lenders, the Ukrainian budget gets out of income, and so Ukrainian citizens get extra income.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u55	Ivan Sidorovich Boki. Victor Mikhailovich, there were other questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u56	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, in the draft budget that we were supposed to consider yesterday, there was an inheritance tax, which can be called the skin removal of people who are forced to pay taxes for the house they built or for the apartment they lived in. Has the government ever resolved this problem in the project that you report to us today? And the second question. The government plans to provide 8.5,000 dollars for children born. The budget plans to provide a grant of 158 million dollars for this social insurance fund. A simple calculation shows that about a billion is needed. Explain where you will take more than 850 million dollars for these payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u57	We've responded to the first problem, it's settled in your budget. Although after that, we're going to have to go back to that problem. Why? Because it's there with the baby so that we don't drool, water and the baby won't spill. Because there is taxation of so - called taxes. factories and factories or the inheritance of factories and factories. So we need to get back to this problem. The other one. Indeed, your estimate corresponds to the figure that we counted is one tenth of a billion dollars in payment of aid. But part of it goes to the fund, to the social fund, to the lack of funds, we go to the state budget. We have these figures in line with the relevant fund and with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In other words, we guarantee the payment of the child’s birth aid, and it is fully budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u58	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask such a question. To all the Levites, we know that it will be 750 years from the date of the founding of Lviv in 2006. And how I'm informed that if the issue were solved, especially in the budget line. I would very much like this matter to be resolved. Because, you know, Parliament has already created an interfractional group of Lions, and I, on behalf of this group, urge you not to forget the age-old city. And I would also like to say two words from the Writer's Association that about funding this body, which is basically important enough for every Ukrainian, because we all read books, grew up on them, so that it would also be kept in the budget of mentioning the funding of the Writer's Association in a single line. If that's possible. I understand that everything is difficult, and the budget is balanced. But even if there's zero bets there, a single line will allow you to find further costs, preserve tradition. Once again, I stress that in Lviv, nearly 50 percent of all architectures are concentrated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u60	First, we responded to the problem of Lviv. Secondly, since the problem of the Writer's Association does not affect the budget balance, we are ready to respond to it to the level two administrators.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u61	Vladimir Demiohin, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u62	Dear Viktor Mihajlovich, I have a first question regarding the pensions of the military. Is it correct to understand that the maximum amount of pensions accrued may not exceed 90 per cent of the maximum actual cost for the employment of employed workers? Today, in line with article 93, this is the maximum of 4,000.100 bracelets. So the pension can't be more than 4690. That's the first question. Second question. The reform of ministries and departments is under way. Your attitude: Do you agree that the amount of the wage fund should remain saved as a result of reforms in ministries and used to pay, pay? The final question is the SEA and TPR. What amount do you want to find from the elimination of the benefits of the SEA and the TPR, and what is the methodology today? Does it exist? And what method is used to evaluate activities?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u63	Dear friends, above all, about military pensions. We've never touched an article that affects the order of appointments -- what was accepted by military pensioners. And what's more, we've foreseen a resource that looks like 2.8 billion. A bracelet associated with military pensioners This is the problem that existed. This resource is not in the current budget. But there is a problem and we have responded. This problem affects absolutely none of the military pensioners. I think it's not the last name or the last name. But you remember when some of us had military names, some of us had hundreds of thousands of dollars when we retired! So it's a reaction to not having such irritable cases, no matter who it is. So once again, we want to emphasize that we are completely in the budget keeping the standards that we have adopted in this room. As far as the benefits are concerned. The total revenue from tax evasion and other changes in tax legislation that we have included in our budget is 8.7 billion. That's right. This is an extremely important article on income that allows us to decide on the social programs set out in the President's programme and budgeted in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u64	George Manchulenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u65	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party Dear reporter! I'm interested in a few questions like a deputy elected from a single-mandatory majority district. First, there are currently two types of subsidies in the budget -- socio-economic development and prejudiced accidents totaling 850 million dollars. Now there's only one subsidy -- 400 million dollars left. This was the only chance we had of gasifying a population site, a school, a school, or another object in the village when we wrote down the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. Now this cost has been cut twice. I don't think this approach is right. Second, local budget allocations. I'll give you an example: The Putill district of my constituency is a purely mountain area, and it's being budgeted by now about July of the month. How can we continue in this situation? And this applies to other areas of the Chernobyl area with regard to compensation grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u66	Let me maybe start at the end, because that's the problem again. It's solved automatically: because of budget grants every month, i.e. if local budgets have a problem with salary payments and utility payments, there's an automatic government budget subsidy every month. And this procedure is already in place, and it works every month. Hence, no local budget will be run out of resources related to the payment of wages or utility bills. The second thing about capital expenditure. We put together two programs -- capitalist subsidies and technogenic subsidies. One program, very often difficult to distinguish, is a technology problem or a capital one. Thirdly, at the budget committee's suggestion of many people's deputies, there was a vote that envisions another 279 million dollars to solve the problems of gasification of the population, and you will see this figure in the draft law on the state budget of Ukraine. And last of all, with regard to the question of colleague Demyokin concerning the wage fund -- the economy of the wage fund in the government in the event of reform. We're ready to react and predict this, because of the additional economy of the wage fund resulting from the reform and reduction of the administrative apparatus, these costs can be directed to further increase wages in executive structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u67	Mikhailo Dobkin, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u68	Dear Viktor Mikhailovich, I have a question of this nature. But first, I want to say that you have misinformed information about the fact that the area of priority development of the Donetsk region does not pay VAT. She pays VAT, she pays a lot. But I'll have the next question. Tell me, you're taking off benefits at the Brontechnics, you're taking off benefits in the space industry, you're saying there are tens of thousands of people working there than you're going to compensate these industries for not having enough money to pay for their wages and their development? And the second part of the question -- I'm asking you to give the rest of the time to Vladimir Hare -- he'll ask himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u69	Vladimir Hare, please. Vladimir Hare, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u70	Victor Mikhailovich, please tell us a specific number in billions of dollars, how much of the budget is needed to increase all the social benefits: wages, pensions, assistance to children, and salaries to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u71	You've seen, please again 29 or 30. Let's see the 38th picture. You see a total of eight and a half billion. But you remember the question asked by John Sidorovich Boki concerning the few. Not all payments are made at the expense of the State and local budgets. Part of it comes from social insurance funds because it's their assignment. Because of the social benefits that come from budget resources, the total load is eight and a half billion dollars, including 4.7 billion from the State Budget, 3.7 billion from local budgets. Second of all, it's about a variety of subjects who used the benefits. First of all, we didn't use the word "Donetsk" at all. It didn't sound here from my mouth. And we have the only approach for all of us. Regardless of the areas where the "free zones" function, we can give data on the Donetsk Zone, for example, one of the figures that I'm willing to give you, where taxes on the amount of 2 billion 700 million dollars were not paid last year, as decided by the courts! Dear colleagues, consider these figures! Terrible numbers! Scary numbers on the holes. And they don't only apply to the Donetsk region. They apply to all areas where the laws provide for appropriate holes. Third moment. We've given you data and we're ready to give you a dozen other structures that use the benefits and are profitable. But with regard to some other types of activity, where, for example, technology parks have some innovative development, we are ready to support the direct cost of the budget. Give the program, show what you do, and we'll support you directly from the state budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u72	Victor Mikhailovich, there was also the National Space Agency.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u73	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the approach is the same everywhere. We are ready to respond. If there's a know-how that needs to be supported, we're going to do it in a transparent, clean way, give us a program, show us what it will give the country, what it will give the citizens of Ukraine, count the costs, we'll check the costs, we'll give you direct support from the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u74	Yes, thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Your time is up. Rest, please. The first deputy head of the Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Budget Committee is invited to the report. Rules, as we agreed, 15 - 15. I mean, 15 for the report and 15 minutes for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we have a very difficult task ahead of us, because today, in the Supreme Council Hall, you are forced to analyse two bills at the same time, which were handed over to you on March 21st, which is Monday, this is a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Budget Act and some other legislative acts and the bill that you have today. The bill given to you today is the result of our work in three days, the 21st, the 22nd, the 23rd of March. And so I'm going to have to actually analyze two bills at the same time. The bill is submitted for the implementation of article 110 of the State Budget Act, which contained a requirement that in 2004, when we passed the budget law, we did not take into account the requirements of the law we passed on October 14 on raising the minimum standard of living. First of all, he was obliged to make appropriate changes in the financing of local budgets and government funds. This bill contains proposals, first and foremost, for raising social standards and non-implementation of spending laws that have been passed by Parliament since the adoption of the State budget or at the time of such approval. In addition, the bill contains new provisions, which are subject to the adoption by the Supreme Council of a new programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers "Meet People". I would like to personally thank Prime Minister Timoshenko Yuliy Volodymyrovna of Ukraine, Minister of Finance Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich of the Economy, Minister of Economy Teryohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, who, for two years, had practically been in constant co-operation with the Committee on Budgets. You know, yesterday's committee meeting ended at 9:00 a.m. Of course, there are problems with the procedure for the adoption of this law, but all of us, taking into account its extraordinary importance, have been set up for constructive work and have tried to move away from the political aspects that tend to be a problem in the hall during the adoption of the State Budget Act. We studied in detail the changes to the law relating to the budget and the budget code and were guided by the materials that we received from the Committee on Tax Changes. As you know, the government is proposing to amend the 91 Law. During our consideration, we were completely removed from the discussion of the following laws and excluded from the text of the bill. First, the laws on changes to the budget code, on the status of the national MP and the law on the rental of state and municipal property. For the transcript, I would like to emphasize once again that the Minister of Finance's report said that they're also being photographed as the author of the legislative initiative, Viktor Mikhajlovich, are you also recording changes to the Law regarding the amendment of the Civil Code? Do you confirm that? Can you please confirm or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u76	Second, for the transcript, we confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u77	I would like to draw attention to the basics of this budget, and we have analyzed macroindicators, incomes, expenses, debt, and tax laws. In general, the Committee received about 800 proposals from national deputies, including 412 from the Committees and 191 from the factions. I would like to point out immediately that, taking into account the time constraints, proposals have been made regarding the objective allocation of subsidies for investment projects and the prevention of technological catastrophes, as well as for the development of roadways, which have not yet been considered. In the near future, we will send them to the Government to take into account the preparation of an objective distribution of the corresponding expenses, as well as to agree when making appropriate proposals to the Committee. The most pressing issue discussed at the committee meetings was the assessment of the reality of the macro indicators and their accounting for the budget. You know that the nominal GDP has increased from 409.5 billion to 436. So it's 26.5 billion. I'm just going to name some of the bills that we've been working on that relate to tax changes. These are bills relating to VAT, income tax, professional, industry laws that give benefits to the industry, amendments to the Civil Code and amendments to the land tax law, amendments to the land lease law. The bottom line is this. I'm going to walk briefly under the tax laws because they affect the income. As a result, we were forced to reduce tax revenues on individual incomes. With respect to the value added tax. It is agreed with the government that the 2005 decision to continue the zero-tax operation at the added value at the crossing of the customs border will be taken. A zero rate for gas sales was also agreed in accordance with the State Budget Act 2003. Also agreed was the proposal on which the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and the Committee on Disability and Veterans insisted on setting a zero rate on added value for sale by organizations of persons with disabilities. Yet there are additions to the list set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. We also agreed on the proposals that came from the Agrarian Committee of Profiles regarding the transfer of VAT to village taxation on 1 January 2006. With the aim of supporting the domestic producer and promoting its competitiveness, a compromise has been reached on the restoration of existing benefits for agricultural producers. In addition, with a view to preserving favourable conditions for operators who have chosen a simplified system of taxation, the government’s proposed rule on limiting the imposition on gross costs of the purchase of goods by individuals who are paying a single tax is excluded. With a view to taking into account the numerous appeals made by citizens, especially the materially unprotected population, the committee proposed that the tax on natural persons be exempt from inheritance and the sale of immovable property, in addition to commercial property. And I can say that this position is reflected in our new bill. Thus, the source of compensation. Thus, due to the changes that have been taken into account, the total revenue reduction of the State budget has accounted for about 1 billion dollars. The source of compensation was suggested to use an increase in the government budget deficit by one billion dollars, which is in total, according to our estimates and according to the new law, one and a half percent of GDP. In addition, the government has agreed to transfer to the special fund of the State Budget the congregation’s revenue for the development of grapes, gardening and hops to preserve its purpose of use according to the law. As a result, increased financial support for the establishment and supervision of young gardens, vineyards, up to 175 million dollars, or 59 million dollars. I am especially concerned about individual issues because they were the subject of a fundamental decision by the committee and the principle requirements of the faction. At the same time, the government increased the expenditure of the State budget mainly on programmes of a humanitarian and cultural nature. For example, there has been an increase in funds aimed at overcoming childlessness and homelessness. The first version of the bill was 20 million, and now another 50 million are proposed. Also included is the proposal to resettle and deport Crimean Tatars by 10 million. In addition, within the projected expenditure of the General Fund, appropriate redeployments have been made, which have been urged by the factions of the Department of Fuel and Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture. I would like to emphasize and draw your attention to the problem of creating local budgets. This is a problem that can be a stumbling block for the adoption of this law. It should be recalled that at the end of December 2004, local budgets in the last 15 days have a payroll debt. A significant increase in wages and social benefits creates an even greater problem for local budgets in the availability of real financial resources. The committee has estimated estimates of such a deficit. It is estimated by the committee at about two billion dollars. How to solve this problem now, so that with the adoption of a law amending the Budget Act and some other legislative acts do not destroy local budgets and ensure their real implementation, because in the last period of time our local budgets are converted into machines to pay wages. The Committee generally endorses the government's policy of raising social benefits, but we need to be clear about where the expenditure should be found. It would be appropriate, Victor Mikhailovich, when working on this project or, if we're going to agree now, to put an extra half a billion dollars on local budgets. We've been planning to use half a billion dollars with you through the Ministry of Finance for a single tariff grid. I think the government's going to have to change its position a little bit in this respect -- not to increase today's payment on a single tariff grid, but, in the first place, to satisfy local budgets. If this position is maintained, I think it will contribute to the adoption of this law here in the Supreme Council Hall. The total resource we have here is one and a half billion dollars. And besides, we're going to insist on going back to the use of the funds that make up today's negotiable balance for the beginning of the year. You know, at the committee meeting, we insisted that the public fund of the State Budget and yours, in terms of the Ministry of Finance, had about one and a half billion dollars. We understand that there should be a negotiable cash, we understand that there is a real size of 400, maybe 600 million, but if you agree to that proposal, you could have a fraction of that amount of about 500 to 700 million. I'm still trying to get the local budgets to work out. And I think you're going to have to make a statement from this rostrum. Thus, the general resource for the local budgets is one and a half billion of your costs per tariff network and one billion of the remaining negotiable negotiable cash, totalling 2 billion dollars. 100 million could be aimed at solving the problem of local budgets. I would also like to draw your attention to the novel that was proposed by the budget committee and adopted by the government. Since the government in the budget project is reducing expenditure on investment projects, and the committee finds that this is not possible, we've proposed another compensator -- it's channelling one and a half percent of the cost of the gas consumed into a special fund to be used for gasification in rural areas, gasification of population sites, construction of pipelines. We estimate that the total amount of such funds would have to be 900 million dollars per year. But since we already have a certain neighborhood and we understand that it will take a month to implement these funds, we would like to point out that the 277 million government-registered expenditures of the Special Fund of the State Budget do not correspond to the actual planned amount of revenue. So we're actually proposing to raise this amount to at least 600 million dollars. I'm going to make a very brief effort to provide information on those novels that were still taken into account by the insistence of the budget committee during the consideration of this bill during March 21-22. And I would like you to have Victor Mikhailovich, who also has them in the hall, for some of these positions are subject to dispute and subject not only to our committee but also to the Committee on Banking, Finance, and Banking. A representative of the Committee on Finance and Banking will report on this in more detail. We understand the complexity of decision-making, we understand that the government budget costs are only balanced on one condition -- if we take it simultaneously with tax laws. And every amendment we make to tax laws costs a lot of money. I think that the changes that we've been able to make over these three days have significantly improved both the content of such a law and the quality of the preparation of tax laws, and have really lifted the tension of those tax standards that were controversial. There's only a few left.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u78	Please let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u79	These are laws that apply to taxation in free economic zones, in areas of priority development, and in sectoral laws. Victor Mikhailovich, and I think we should now take the time to discuss these issues. If we can find understanding and the right decision in the Supreme Council Hall, I think we can adopt this bill not only in the first reading, but in general as a law, because we have been working on it during this time and in the previous years in the Supreme Council Hall. This requires only one thing: now is understanding and making a conscious political decision that we are taking such a step for the people of Ukraine, for the sake of the economy, for the sake of development. And I want to say that this law will only be implemented if there is the political consent of all the forces working in Ukrainian society today. So I pay special attention to allowing time for discussion to be given only to issues of particular concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the question to the reporter? Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Leonid Chernewicki, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u81	Dear People's Deputies, I want you to know my point of view. Well, first of all, we were already going through a phase where we didn't see the budget at all. We voted without looking at it at all. Well, let's look at it for at least two days - it's a problem! That's the first one. Secondly, the slogans that this is for the people and everything is that we've been through a long time, too, because it's there. I personally did not read the last copy of this budget, and it is not very serious - many things simply to accept from the voice. I did what I could for the government. Let them vote, but do not listen to what is recorded in the Hall. This should be put to the vote, including administrative measures for taxpayers who are horrendous and killed and eliminated by the new President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u82	I realize that, in principle, the question hasn't been answered, but the point is that we're adopting not entirely new laws with you, we're adopting changes to existing legislation, and so we can analyze what standards are in force today and what are being proposed to exclude or supplement. With regard to the State Budget Act, I can say that it has been worked in considerable detail, and it has been attended by a virtually full budget committee. So the legislation that regulates the budget, I think I'm speaking on behalf of the entire committee now, we're responsible for it. The legislation that regulates taxes would like to be discussed in detail by the Financial and Banking Committee. And we will have the opportunity to listen to the report of the committee. The fact that the budget law is improved by these changes is absolutely true. What tax legislation requires us to work on or reconcile at the time of its adoption, I don't think anyone here is going to argue with you. There won't be a fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u83	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u84	Please hand over Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u85	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u86	Gurenko, the Communist faction. Dear Ludmila, please tell us whether the standard that National Deputy Terjehochin, Minister of Economics and European Integration, has been preserved, has been prescribed in the proposals that we now have VAT for drugs again, and that we should release only the part that will be determined by the Cabinet. That's the first question. And the second question. You're a man of education, and you know that once Ostap Bender raised a lot of money for homeless children to spend them for purposes far from this noble work. Tell me who specifically wrote "plus 50 million on homeless children" and who's going to get that money. Because we have a lot of interest here, maybe we can go and help too. Money! 70 million! More to the village, by the way. Even though we're all here to see that homelessness is eliminated. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u87	Stanisław Ivanovich, I can tell you that we have also taken a hard look at every number of government figures, and we have ruled out all those programs that have not been strengthened in any way. It's just an extermination. We think that if there's no law, if there's no regulation, if there's no timetable, these programs, which are beautiful and beautiful, we don't accept for budget consideration. But with regard to the homelessness program, there is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was adopted three years ago, where it is clearly described: what are the costs, what amounts, and what programs. So in this case, the government will execute a decree that was adopted three years ago. Thus, under such circumstances, the principal task force at this cost is the youth - centered ministry, the family, now called sports. But this program was adopted three years ago, so we confirmed these expenses, other expenses, for example, in the Ministry of Transport, there was a new program called the development of a network of roads, equipment, and so on. We erased it because it's not an object of the ministry's knowledge, it's only a stealth road, and it's got money for it. So we treated each tape very narrowly, every number that was there. We tried to keep the budget from being the object of the pre-election promise. But it's only a matter of law enforcement. As far as VAT is concerned, we don't have that standard, it's excluded in a new version. We insisted on keeping the order that existed before that. With regard to the list of cabinet ministers, I can only say one thing that is sometimes used to import products that have no bearing on them. Because labels say that water is used for treatment, and what treatment it is, it is clear that we need to be more specific about whether we can use it or not. The same applies to shampoos, detergents, etc. I mean, to answer your question, this law doesn't contain it, we've removed it. Please have been before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u88	Ivan Vernidubov, the Faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u89	The bill under consideration, which is respected by Ludmila Pavlovna, effectively ceases State support for the construction and, in particular, changes to the value added tax legislation. Article 6 repeals the zero VAT rate on foreign ship repair services by our enterprises. And for Sevastopol, this is especially important. You talked about what you canceled on agriculture, other types. Shouldn't we be standing here on construction?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u90	Dear John Vasilovich, I can tell you what the benefits of shipbuilding are. First, according to shipbuilding, in respect of income tax, no income tax is paid, an enterprise in the shipbuilding sector during the period of operation of the respective contracts. So this benefit is saved. No payment is made for the import of goods that would have worked for the period of 01.03. In 2005. In addition, as far as VAT is concerned, there is no VAT on service for today’s standard. We've ruled it out of the law and we've taken your proposals into account. That is, VAT on shipbuilding services is excluded, i.e. they are not available for repairs, repairs, repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u91	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u92	So the zero bet is applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Kalinchuku Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u94	Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk, People's Party faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u95	Thank you, Calinchuk, Faction of the People's Party. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna. The faction generally supports the social dimension of the budget, but we have this question to you. Please tell me, would the level of wages and pensions, aid, social assistance, or would it not be consumed by the inflation proposed by the Government, 9.8%? And won't the prices go up in general in relation to whether we can withstand this level of inflation or not? And the second question I have is more specific, given the importance of the Tairov Institute of Wine and Winery, as a national scientific institution for the development of the sector, a group of national deputies asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council in early March for assistance in equipping the Institute with new equipment, improving the material and technical base
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u96	I see. For us, when we consider the budget, it was a very important issue of inflation, because it concerns us as much as any other citizen of Ukraine, because we know that raising social benefits in Russia, for example, has led to inflationary processes. What is happening in Ukraine? The government is now in this position, if inflation exceeds 1 percent, it will be obliged to count both pensions and all social benefits and wages. So he's interested in not having inflation, believe me, no less than the citizens of Ukraine. What about processes that could prevent inflation? First of all, there is a gradual increase in payments. This is the main factor in inflation. Secondly, the increase in wages has a preliminary effect. We're raising wages first, but we're inputting this raise step by step. We think this is going to be a buffer for inflationary processes. The other one. The National Bank may always be operational in monetary policy. For example, if there's more money than economics, it actually stops doing the emissions, which is what's happening now, and it can sterilize the money mass. So if a joint mechanism of the National Bank, the Cabinet of Ministers, is working, a legislative base that is accepted by the MPs, then we can prevent inflation. We think the inflation rate that this budget has now is going to be saved at 9.7 percent. As far as the congregation is concerned. You know, according to the faction, the People's Agrarian Party, we've moved this congregation to a special fund, we're talking about a special congregation for gardening, farming, and hops. But with regard to the Institute, there is a decree made by the Cabinet of Ministers that the cost of work associated with this institution must be paid. If the Minister of Finance now confirms the support for this proposal, and we're going to figure out the amount that is in the Cabinet's rulings, I think that, with the consent of the Supreme Council, we're going to put this in the budget if the Cabinet of Ministers agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u97	Semenjuk Valentina instead of Goshovsky. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u98	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, a special control commission, made proposals for the inclusion of funds in a special fund for the implementation of the law on government and utility rents. Three percent of the special fund to do the work related to the repossession of state property courts upon the return and termination of leases that are concluded with the violation and today are causing great damage to the state. I would very much like to see this proposal taken into account. This is page 16, paragraph 35. The proposal is dated by a special control commission to send three percent to a special fund to do these tasks regarding the rent of state and municipal property. This is article 19. I'd like to make a note, Ludmila Pavlovno.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u99	Dear Valentina Petrovna, the committee supports your proposal. But the government didn't think he'd be able to apply that rule right now. We support it. If Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik immediately confirms this position, we are balancing the balance of the privatisation revenue and allowing the Holding Fund to sort out its activities. Because they can't do that either, nor can they pay for the courts, nor can they keep the property. Therefore, three percent of the rent for the Property Fund and its regional offices is absolutely justified. Without this order in this field, we will not specify.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u100	Oleg Belarus, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u101	An honest reporter, anyone who can read a budget or even read, can't help but notice that it's a quality new human budget, it's a budget of a new political quality. But one who can read cannot help but read that there are still a lot of reserves in this budget, including a reduction in future costs of maintaining various government and government structures. Tell me, do you see the reserves for 2006, the 2006 budget, after the further socialization of the budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u102	You know, to be honest, I think we have to do the laws that we've already passed. This budget has not yet reached that goal. And that's why our task right now is to gradually increase social security for citizens, but so that they don't get ruined by inflationary processes. And that's why we're only going to talk about the 2006 budget in six months when we actually keep the economy. In our view, the increase in the revenue of the State Budget in 2005 is only possible for the time being at the expense of one factor: economic detinction. Because in order for the economy to grow, it needs to be given an investment resource. We're not giving that kind of direction yet, we're just raising the purchasing power of citizens to support the economy a little bit with their own income. So in my opinion, we need to implement the existing laws first, and then we need to talk about raising these standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u103	George Manchulenko, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u104	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party Sophia Pauline, the question of the next plan. I believe that the promotion of national interests and the protection of state sovereignty is one of the main pillars of government action, including through the State Budget. Thus, according to the Act on the National System of Confidential Liaison, such a system was to be opened last year. Unfortunately, it's not wide open. And only 510 grand is planned for this year. It's the only way to open it. It's at a time when the HlV system can be listened to in the only system it ever existed, the former Soviet Union, it can be listened to. And the second question. Tax changes. Wouldn't that be negative because we're changing a lot of tax laws during the year, making some changes to the State Budget Act of Ukraine? Will this be a positive thing? Although in general, the State Budget project is a positive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u105	Thank you. With regard to this program on the system of confidential communication, we know that it has been enacted for the implementation of the Law on the Privacy System. But for today, this project is not a priority. Therefore, the funds are allocated only for the preparation of the necessary project. I think the government might have listened to your proposal if it had given you support through receiving special software credit for the development of such a system. We have a program of government loans, it's not fully filled yet, it's not full, there's a reserve there, and so if you have such proposals and you think it's necessary, you can prepare this kind of appeal to the government to include a program of private communications development. Then the problem would be solved. As for the tax change, the colleagues, in principle, in adopting the amendments to the State Budget Act, we had a choice: or we, understanding that today we should support our citizens, give them the opportunity and the pensions they deserve to receive, and make social payments in accordance with the laws in force, and therefore make changes to tax laws, because from other sources we have no possibility of removing additional income from the budget, or say that we are not doing these programs today and will wait for 2006 and act in accordance with the laws and the Constitution, that is to say, to amend the tax laws by 1 July so that they become real and enter into force by 15 August 2006 and enter into force as of 1 January 2006. We must make a political decision with you that we are responsible as a deputy corps and the Cabinet of Ministers for making such a decision and for taking responsibility for the lives and fate of the citizens. Under these conditions, we're only going to have one problem: we're going to solve the legislative issue of regulating the cancellation of existing benefits. The committee offered a number of solutions. First, to introduce a separate article on income and call it "preferential incomes" to control who and how in priority areas, in priority areas, is using profit to put it in his pocket and manages it in our own interests, whether he uses it in accordance with the law and directs it to the development of production. Tax benefits exist in all countries of the world, tax preferences exist in all countries of the world, tax payments and grants exist in all countries of the world. [[I'll be done in a second.]] So we have to consider what is important to us today: economic development, social pay, changes to laws or compliance with laws, the Constitution. In such circumstances, I would say, just please, Victor Mikhailovich, let's take another look at the positions on the system for taking into account the benefits and their elimination. You know, on many issues, the government has agreed with us, the benefits remain for both the disabled and the Chernobyl area, and the land tax, but today we're going to be interested in settling the manufacturing position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report has been completed. Now the word of Valery Mishuri, please. We have to take a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Now we need to vote on the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. I would like to point out that we have a vote on the way the ballots go. The reckoning committee is ready to vote. Request: At the desks where you always register, take the ballots. There's a couple of names in the bulletin. If you want to vote against someone, just delete them. The vote will continue for 30 minutes. So if we start at 13, let's say 10 or 13.15, in 30 minutes the vote will be over. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, a 30 - minute recess is announced for the vote: up to 13 hours 45 minutes. During the break, please express your views on the proposed candidates for the House of Auditors. Then we will listen to a report from the Committee on Finance and Banking. Break until 13 hours 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u109	I'd like to invite the people's deputies to the session room. Please turn on the Microphone Widow Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, in addition to the important event that is taking place in the life of our nation with regard to the budget and hopefully it will be approved, today he would like to remind his colleagues and the sad event in the life of the Ukrainian people - has been 6 years since the tragic death of the country’s national hero, deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, longtime political prisoner Viacheslav Maksimovich Crnovola. His role is not persevering in the history of modern Ukraine. I appeal to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to honor his memory by standing up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, please honor the memory of Viacheslav Crnovola with a moment of silence. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please, as we agreed, 15 or 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Banking has been working on permanent working groups and committee meetings since receiving the draft changes to the State Budget. We can immediately say that there have been and remain many questions from committee members to this draft law. These comments from the committee took up about 50 pages of text, so I'd like to try to give them a brief sound. First of all, I would like to point out that the version that we're looking at is a new draft of a bill that we've just received as a committee today. Much of the bill consists of changes to tax laws. The government has formally taken into account the requirements of the Tax Act, which determines that the change in tax rates and the tax administration mechanism cannot be introduced by the State Budget Act. The articles of the Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget have deleted tax standards. But this is only a formal consideration because fiscal and tax changes remain in the bill under the same registration number. The previous practice of adopting the budget, along with changes in taxation, is being restored. This does not enable our committee to work properly, as budget changes are being made to the subject of the budget committee. As to the substance of tax changes. First of all, I want to draw attention to the part of the bill that provides for the abolition of the sectoral, regional and other benefits. These are the benefits provided by Ukraine’s laws on taxation of business income, value added tax, land and customs benefits. It is proposed to cancel preferences for automobiles, aircraft and aircraft construction, military and agro-industry complexes, for subjects of innovation for free economic zones, areas of priority development, and areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. The State’s legislative benefits for free economic zones, technology parks, and priority development areas were based on the State. They're not allowed by a series of laws. It is suggested that these benefits be abolished along with the State’s guarantees of the inability to remedy them. We are not opposed to the moratorium on new zones and projects, but there are many projects that have been made today, and it is not possible to cancel the benefits for already registered and active projects, because this will lead to the knowledge of the state's lost trials. The issue of tax evasion was discussed in the committee and we think it needs to be considered differentiatedly, in every field, in every region in the complex with other forms of state support to avoid the negative effects on the economy. We have already begun to reach some agreements with the Government on some issues, such as a step-by-step increase in land tax for armoured companies, courts, and aircraft construction. Saving existing taxes on income and duty on shipbuilding enterprises, we also agreed to leave the existing order of payment of VAT to agro-industrial enterprises, to farmers, but many questions remain unanswered. Now for individual taxes. According to the corporate income tax, the bill proposed to supplement the law on taxation of the income of enterprises with sub-paragraph 5.3.10), under which taxpayers were not entitled to include in gross costs, the cost of the taxpayer for the purchase of goods, jobs and services to private entrepreneurs, natural persons. In our view, this proposal leads to discrimination against small businesses and cannot be supported. The bill contained rules on changing the marginal amount of taxation of the taxpayer’s expenses related to the repair of basic funds to gross expenses. If you can now account for 10% of the book value of all the core fund groups, then the project reduces this amount significantly, because the marginal cost is going to be determined by each particular core fund group. We do not support such a restriction because the existing order of taxation of capital-repair operations allows businesses to solve the problems of the substantial downsizing of core funds. Part of the bill's income taxation is the rules that weigh down the situation of domestic banks and insurance companies. Insurance companies, the insurance company, this standard, which provides for a 5% limit on the gross cost of insurance companies. Everything above this five - percent barrier will be paid for the net income of the taxpayer. Considering that legislation obliges compulsory insurance, such costs must be fully attributed to gross costs. The bill also contains changes that envision a reduction in the rules for the formation of an insurance reserve, which is included in the gross cost of banks, from 20 percent to 10 percent. This, in turn, can lead to a decrease in the stability of the banking system. All of these proposals, which relate to corporate income taxation, were accepted by the government and were to be partially or completely taken into account. The following should be noted for changes to VAT. The government project was covered by an almost complete bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax, number 5258, which was adopted in the first reading and is now being worked on in the committee. Since a considerable amount of work has already been done on this bill, it is inappropriate to consider it in conjunction with budget changes. So we suggested that we leave only the budget-based VAT rules that we have listed in our decision. Everything else needs to be regulated in a separate law that has been considered that will improve the existing order for the administration of VAT. With regard to taxes on the income of natural persons, the committee already has the draft laws of our colleagues Gorbachev and Seminoga, which were discussed at the committee meeting and supported. This is a matter of taxation of real estate transactions, inheritance and notary activities as tax agents. So in the committee's decision, we showed the position of these bills. It's about Excise. It is proposed to increase the rates of excise duty on alcohol from 16 to 17 dollars per letter of alcohol, on cognacs, beer, and some other alcoholic beverages. Also, the ad valorative component of excise duty on cigarettes increases from 7 percent to 8 percent. The committee does not object to such changes. But at the same time, we are opposed to increasing ten times the value of licenses for trade and the production of tobacco and alcohol products. Because it's going to be a lot of pressure on small businesses and it's going to redistribute the market to the benefit of big companies. This article also provides additional funds for the budget because licences will be paid. But it is not considered how many businesses will give up such activities. The project also foresees an increase in car wash rates, up to 34.5 percent. Adding a tax on added value and excise duty will make up about 62 percent of the car’s customs value. Along with the elimination of automobile subsidies, this will lead to a significant increase in prices for both domestic and imported cars. At the same time, the full budget effect will not be achieved. Because we have a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation that provides for the exemption from the payment of import duties, and this will only lead to an increase in imports of Russian cars into Ukraine. It's about taxing the gaming business. The bill proposes to increase payment for patents for entrepreneurial activities in the field of gaming. However, the practice has shown that the previous increase in patent costs did not have the budgetary effect. Therefore, the committee suggests leaving the salary for a patent in the field of gaming business at the level of the third year. And to adjust the licensing in the field of gaming by introducing a license for each individual casino. As far as fiscal standards are concerned, the draft law. It is proposed to amend articles 10, 74 of the Civil Code and allow the tax authority to arrest the current accounts of the owners. I would like to remind you that today it is only possible to do so by decision of the court. The Committee clearly believes that the tax authorities should not be given such powers. It's about checking businesses. Paragraphs 9-10 are added, which expands the basis for non-planned exit checks when a declaration with a negative VAT value of more than 100,000 is submitted by the payer. I've got a special assignment for the Cabinet of Ministers. Also, a preplanned exit check is carried out in accordance with the decision of the director of the tax authority, which is established by order. Previously, the test could only have been based on a court’s decision that was undeniably beyond the authority. There are also new timelines for the duration and continuation of planned and out-of-plan tests. They are included in the provision regarding the possibility of extending the terms of the checks only on the basis of a court decision, which is likely to be an unjustified exaggeration of the powers of the State Tax Inspectorate. Dear colleagues, there are many other questions that I have not been able to express in a short time, but I have tried to stop at the main ones that have been heard on the profile committee. Since we received the paper on amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2005 State Budget and some other legislative acts, the committee has not stopped the discussion, and the first decision we have made is to send a bill for further work. But the next day we saw that the government had begun to listen to the committee’s comments, and some arrangements had been reached. And in the version of the bill that was given today in the hall, some of them found their reflection. But there are still many issues that can be resolved only when the bill is being drafted in a second reading. So the final decision that was taken by the committee was to support the bill in the first reading, with further work on the second reading, taking into account the proposals and comments made by the committee, which were presented separately in the committee's decision and sent to the budgetary committee and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u113	Thank you for your attention. Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Please sign up for a question, if any. On the board, please. So Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please ask questions
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u114	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter, I have listened very carefully to your very reasonable arguments that the budget should be accepted in the first reading and processed in the second reading. As you look at the change in legislation that applies to technology parks, that is, the Committee on Science and Education agrees that technology parks can pay all taxes, but at the same time, according to GAT’s WTO requirements, they should receive certain subsidies from the State or subsidies should be entered into the law on technology parks. And with such an addition to the law, this law could be passed. How do you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u115	I'd like to repeat what we've proposed. They thought we could introduce a moratorium on new areas, on technology parks, on priority development, on creating new investment and innovation projects, on technology parks. But those benefits already granted to entrepreneurs who made certain investments and created jobs, we don't think it's necessary, because there's going to be trials and we don't think they're going to be in favor of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u116	Peter Stepanovich Zibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u117	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear co-reporter, I understand that this is more about the Budget Committee and the government, but I haven't been able to give it to them, so I'm going to give it to you. Please tell me how you feel about the fact that, say, as head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, I cannot fail to support the government because it is about to start implementing the National Pension Insurance Act. But in the part of the payment for each additional year of work, not the minimum of living, as provided by law, is taken from the calculated pension with a limitation of 3.32, that is, we take a step forward, but then we circumcise it ourselves. How do you view a similar approach to law enforcement: in some parts, do not do it and in others do not do it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u118	Dear Peter Ivanovich, well, I'll be honest with you that this is a matter we didn't consider on the committee, because it's not a matter of a profile committee. But I can say that the committee members have certainly marked the sociality of this budget. And we welcome the government's intentions to raise wages and pensions, namely to implement the law that you mentioned that we passed back in January. But in our view, this should not be done at the expense of what the economy will have in the future, let's say, not the trends that it has today. Because any incentive for the manufacturer is just being destroyed and eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u119	Vasil Ivanovich Potapov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u120	I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u121	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u122	Dear Julia Vladimirovn, I'd like to ask our colleagues, and you, after all, to hear about what's going on in the session room. First of all, it seems to me that the budget has been established according to the old Soviet formula: I can't refuse you, but I don't know how to help you. I can't refuse to vote for this budget through the prism of two things. First of all, social standards. And thank you for the line on the castle bridges. But I cannot vote in favour of this budget because it is budgeted by Zaporozhye, especially by industrial giants such as AutoZAZ, and I wonder why there is so little focus in this room today on this issue of public scale. In general, there is no debate on issues of concern today. You see, if we, God forbid, voted for that budget that week, he wouldn't have had that change. I strongly insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u123	Well, I understand it's not a question, it's more advice or wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u124	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u125	Dear reporter! I want to ask you if you're sure that. An article has been removed from the budget that allows the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate customs tariffs. It's not the Supreme Council, it's the Cabinet of Ministers. We saw a bill submitted by the government on customs tariffs for a group of 124 "Products". There is practically the discovery of borders and the destruction of Ukraine’s agricultural producer, and our market can become such a congregation of all European and world uses. Tell me exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u126	Thank you for asking, Catherine Timothy. All I can tell you is that Victor Mikhailovich and I agreed on this issue and they made a commitment to withdraw it from the law. I'd like Victor Mikhailovich to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u127	We have an obligation, and there is no law in the draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u129	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear reporter! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Melniczuk I have a question like this. Please tell me that you are an expert and have looked at the figures proposed for 2005 on the gasification of rural areas. I am not very satisfied with the mechanism offered by the government. In spite of that, the faction will support both in the first reading, and in general and in the time it is time to accept this budget and not need so much, we will talk, we will test people. Whether you are satisfied with that mechanism, I repeat, and the figures that are allocated to the gasification of rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u131	I can answer that the question, unfortunately, is not about the financial committee, but as a major MP, I can tell you that these numbers don't satisfy me personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u132	Levko Grigorovich Lukyanenko Faction of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u133	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Vitaly Yuriovich, I'd like to ask you a question like that. So here we've heard that AutoZAZ actually has big profits and, at the same time, it takes grants from the state budget. Do you think financial schemes like this are stealing from a position of duty, or is it simply a violation of financial discipline? That's the first question. The second question. You know, once again, I'd like, like my predecessor, to do with the village and the gasification. On one occasion, we were promised a million dollars each to help the villagers gas. Whether this mechanism will be used this time to complete the work already started on the gasification of villages. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u134	As far as gasification is concerned, I think it's for government officials to be responsible, because I just don't own this issue and it's a matter of the budget committee. But I'm going to immediately answer the first part and then maybe there's going to be a gasification answer. What's going on with AutoZAZ. I can tell you that we've been doing a separate exit meeting for this enterprise of the profile committee, and there's been an economic minister present today, Sergey Terjohin, and many more who today represent the people who represent the government. At that moment, I heard no comments or objections, against this company and against AutoZAZ’s granting of benefits. I think there's a lot to be done in every field. And if the level, let's say, of course, is already profitable, then you have to start, let's say, maybe step-by-step taking these benefits away. Maybe. But we've seen a nice business, in my view, that works, where jobs are created, and, if we cancel these benefits, I think we should, well, go more closely. Because, for example, I was sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers, and I didn't realize that the information by the numbers, by AutoZAZA, was being done in a kind of, cool way. Because, according to the finance minister, there were traps. Although the governor spoke and said that I had not been approached for these figures, there are questions that seem to seem to be incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u135	Yes. George Manchulenko, please. Dear colleagues, this is a question we're asking to the head of a representative of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u136	Gregory Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party. I have a few questions about funding national defence spending. Do you see sufficient funding for construction, housing for military personnel, financing for development, procurement and maintenance of military equipment, vitality and disposal of surplus ammunition, reform and development of the Ukrainian armed forces? And the next problem is the pension provision of military pensioners, pensioners of the Ministry of Interior system, security services, and other power structures. As we know, the leaders of these structures of their time have turned to the previous Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine not to keep these expenditures in the system of relevant ministries of the field, but to transfer them to the public spending system of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Have you considered this question? And your opinion on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u137	I would like to emphasize once again that the issue of the expenditure portion of the budget, it's not a matter of the financial committee, it's a matter of the budgetary committee. So I can honestly tell you that we haven't considered this question, because it's on another committee. But once again, I can personally say that financing for the construction of housing for military personnel is not enough. I don't think there's a resource today to meet all the needs in the military-industrial complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u138	Vladimir Demiohin, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u139	Dear Vitaly, I wanted to ask you the next question. You were just doing a report. After all, is there an official decision by the committee? That's the first question. Second. Your view that we are in violation of article 7 of the Tax System Act today, which clearly states that the change in tax rates and the mechanism for tax and assembly management cannot be introduced by the State Budget Act. So we're essentially going into an illegal field. I would like you to express your opinion on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u140	I'm in. From the outset, we have drawn the attention of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Economy to what we should do in a transparent manner, and let us consider the budget in accordance with the Tax System Act of Ukraine. And it was as if we had heard consent. Once again, I reiterate that this rule has been formally implemented, that it seems as though the individual articles have brought out changes to tax rules but have been incorporated into separate laws under one registration number. Therefore, the Committee on Finance cannot influence any legislation to the extent that it should influence, as it is all considered in the Committee on Budgets. And we are forced, let's say, to be present on the budget committee, and constantly ask tables for any changes. I repeat that the draft budget that is under consideration today has been officially received to the Committee only this morning. I therefore hope that Julia Vladimirovna will be able to take into account the financial committee's wishes in the next budget review next year, and we are prepared to work, work normally on all the articles and work professionally. However, in order to comply with the procedure and the Rules and the Tax System Act. As for the final decision of the committee, I would like to reiterate. The final decision of the Committee is to support the first reading. Why? Because it is only during the second reading process that we will be able to make formal proposals from members of the people, from the committee that will be in the drawing table, and have the opportunity to take these proposals into account. We've changed that proposal, I repeat. When reciprocity was heard, let's say, from the ministries in profile, and there were some compromises on a number of issues in the tax system. This is both a profit tax and a VAT tax, and a number of other issues that I have already covered in my report today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u141	Igor Sharov, please, Democratic Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u142	Igor Sharov, Democratic Ukraine. Please pass the word to Anatoly Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u143	Anatoly Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u144	Anatoly Rahansky, European constituency. Dear reporter, please tell me, do you think it is reasonable that article 75 of certain laws is suspended? That's the first question. The second question. You've already answered, I'd like to say. The right thing is that MPs, including I have made many, 15 for example, amendments to budget changes and proposals to increase revenue to the budget, but I don't have the opportunity to see what the Committee's decision is. And as to how local budgets are now going on. That's what we've been talking about. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u145	With regard to article 75, I can say that, with regard to matters governed by the Financial Committee, they are not there, they have been passed as separate laws. But that's already, let's say, step one. On other issues, I think it's not the financial committee, it's the ministers. As far as funding is concerned. Local budgets, right, second question? I can say that, again, as a national deputy, as a senior, not as a member of the financial committee, that funding for local budgets has increased in some positions. I mean, by the grant of the equation, let's say there's an extra seven million in my town, in Makeevka, in other cities. I mean, there's an increase in the levelling grant. At the same time, there is a reduction in capital investment, an article called "Social Economic Development of Regions". That is to say, the cancelled article is $485 million. Money for economic, socio-economic development in the regions. So these are the capital investments that were in the people's deputies. So now less than half is left. We'll work in whatever conditions we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u146	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Let's move on to the performances. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment is invited to address Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich. Prepare Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u147	Dear Head, dear company, dear voters! When discussing the issue on March 23 at the Economic Policy Committee meeting, the committee members were guided by the materials that were in place at the time and the day, because today we have a new project that is largely redesigned, which somehow takes into account the opinions of the deputies and the opinions of the members of the budget committee. But those proposals and those made two days ago by members of the committee remain valid. Therefore, the members of the committee noted above all that the management of the Cabinet of Ministers, unfortunately in contravention of the Law on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes and the specific decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 4 February this year on the Cabinet of Ministers' Meeting With People programme, did not, as was the case with the Supreme Council of the 2005 State Economic and Social Development Programme, the budget today is the only document that contains certain indicators and orientations. The 2005 draft changes to the State Budget, regardless of the large amount of material, did not contain enough calculations and a basis for those changes, the significant changes proposed today by the Supreme Council. Sharing the government's concern about possible, possible, I underline, serious violations and financial losses under the cover of tax and customs legislation, members of the committee have talked about the number of appeals made by heads of state administrations and businesses regarding the negative socio-economic consequences of the abolition of the corresponding benefits, as we are now asked, simply to find a number of laws invalid. We're in territories and zones today. 52,000 jobs have been created in free economic zones. That's what I'm talking about. In the Donetsk region alone, 180 projects have already been implemented, which have already invested $1.2 billion, including 281 million, are foreign investments. The consequences of differences of preference can simply be very difficult, especially in court cases and the liability of property. We have a case today where the ANTIC "Anton" team isn't paying for its fault because Antonovska's planes can't carry cargo anymore, they can be represented on international aircraft. If you're going to take specific businesses, you're going to get AutoZAZ. This year, the amount of production is projected to drop three times. There are 80,000 people working at AutoZAZ and related businesses. It will decrease by 49,000 people, including at the main enterprise - 13,000. The wages that the minister of finance has so criticized here will be reduced by 33 percent, and it will be 683 bracelets, on average in Ukraine. This, of course, should be done in order to organize activities of enterprises in the areas of industry and industry, but this should be done, as defined by the committee members, solely in the legislative framework. A wave of unemployment, which could certainly be depreciated by the creation of new jobs. The president has given the government the task of reflecting in the budget his promise to create a million jobs. It's not much, it's more than 100 billion dollars. But at least one penny in the budget is useless. It is also futile to look at specific indicators and calculations for the elimination of poverty in Ukraine. We consider this to be a major drawback to the budget, and we feel that we need to return to these issues and return to the way our Prime Minister likes to speak at a professional level. Members of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u148	Allow me to finish the speech. Are you all right? Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, let's listen very briefly to the Counting Commission's information on the results of our work during the break. Please, Valery Dmitrovich Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce to you the contents of protocol number two meetings of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 25 March 2005. There were reports of secret ballots for appointment as members of the Court of Auditors. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors included nominations: Yaremenka Alexandre Stepanović as deputy to the head of the Court of Auditors; Yuhimchuk Anatolia Petrovich as Secretary of the Court of Auditors, Vitkovska Larissa Volodymyrovna as Chief Controller of the Court of Auditors; Zarbi Igor Mikolaiovich as Chief Controller of the Court of Auditors; Pilpenka Vijacheslava Pavlovich as Chief Controller of the Court of Auditors; Samusa Georgi Juriovich as Chief Controller of the House of Auditors. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established: 1. The number of Ukrainian national deputies whose mandate is determined is 443; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots - 340; The number of national deputies who took part in the vote is 337; The number of ballots declared invalid is not. That's what the voices got. Yaremenko Alexander Stepanovich. Z minus 332, versus negative 5. [[Applause]] Yuhimchuka Anatolia Petrovich For negative 273, versus negative 64. [[Applause]] Vytkov's Larissa Volodymyrna. Z minus 269, versus 68. Zarba Igor Mikolaiovich. 273, versus - 64. Filipenko Viacheslav Pavlovich. Z minus 311, versus 26. It's Georgiy Yuriovich. Z minus 266, versus 71. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Auditors, Chapter 3.7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Committee decided to consider the members of the Court of Auditors to be appointed: Yaremenka Alexandre Stepanovič is the deputy head of the Rakunkov Chamber; Yuhimčuka Anatolia Petrovich is the secretary of the Rakunkov Chamber; Vitkovsky Larisa Volodymyrovna is the chief controller of the House of Accounts; Zaribu Igor Mikolaiovich is the chief controller of the House of Accounts; Filippenka Vijacheslava Pavlovich is the chief controller of the House of Accounts; Samusia Georgiy Yuriovich is the chief controller of the Court of Auditors. Head, deputy, secretary, members of the Counting Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u150	Thank you. Valery Dmitrovitch, let's welcome the colleagues we've chosen to serve in the House of Accounts and wish you a fruitful and responsible job. Dear colleagues, the Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Hara Vasil Georgievovich, is being irrigated before the speech. The next one will be Aloshin’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, our committee has considered the bill at its meeting and has made a mixed decision. On the one hand, there have been significant positive developments in the provision of social guarantees to different categories of the population. It was also noted that most social norms were the result of decisions of the previous Government and, above all, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the other hand, the members of our committee are concerned about the internal contradiction of the project. It is clear to all that the level of social benefits is entirely dependent on the level and stability of the national economy. It is not necessary to be economists to see that this bill offers the interests of a national producer, exacerbated by, above all, the customs liberalization that we have recently adopted with you. The total lack of State support for auto-, ship-, aircraft-, military-industrial facilities and villages would lead to the laundering of working capital, i.e. the reduction of production, wages, jobs, taxes and the like. Non-economic attacks on public monopolies will clearly lead to the travel of tariffs on transport, electricity, gas, fuel and the like, which will necessarily lead to the rise in prices of industry, agricultural products, and therefore to goods of popular consumption, products, utilities and other services. The internal contradiction of the 2005 budget is the result of an undemocratic, indistinguishable and cellular approach, if you will, to the Cabinet of Ministers to work on the bill. There is no consensus on it even within the Government itself. Our committee has been approached by the Federation of Ukrainian Employers, in which the Cabinet of Ministers is rightly criticized for ignoring the provisions of the General Agreement, violation of the principle of tripartism and social ideology in the State. The Kabmin, in fact, in violation of Ukrainian laws, has removed its social partners, and the establishment of economic and social policies for 2005. This is an impossible case for a civilized State. The Federation of Employers is of the view that it is unacceptable to adopt economically unwarranted rules that will result in negative socio-economic consequences. Our Committee sent its many proposals to the 2005 draft budget, but this morning we received the materials you all have. And, as a mockery, we have seen that not a single proposal of our Committee has been considered and adopted. We did not ask for additional financial burdens to be borne by social insurance funds, but, as a bad thing, another 20 million have been charged by the occupational accident insurance fund. We cannot agree with the Cabinet of Ministers' indemnity with regard to social insurance funds. When the Law is being violated and, in large measure, the funds of insured persons and employers are being stolen to patch holes in the public budget, the tariffs are changing on their own, and so forth. This is another attempt to break the country's social protection system. And I cannot help but respond to the response of Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, whom I respect, to the question: how does the budget return, because of the increase in the child's one-time assistance to the social insurance fund. He said that this issue was agreed upon - we return in full. That's not true, to say the least. The budget provides for 1,509 million, with a minimum fund requirement of 800 million, the Committee disagrees with the position of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the return of the population, the elimination of funding for work programmes, the reduction of benefits for disabled enterprises and the destruction of the coal industry. By the way, the “Region of Ukraine” The faction has submitted its proposals to increase funding. This option, which we have received today, further reduces the financing of the coal industry. We also disagree with the introduction of a land tax for child health camps, with the abolition of rural gasification programmes, and it is supposed to be replaced by questionable electrification. We do not agree with the reduction in the amount of pensions received today due to the imposition of maximum restrictions on pensions. In refusing to pay on the basis of a single tariff network, a further increase in the minimum wage would lead to further distortions in the ratio of unskilled pay and highly skilled work. In view of the foregoing, distinguished colleagues, we believe that such a law cannot ultimately be enacted. We need to take him on first reading, finish him off. And another suggestion. Today it is necessary to implement the budget that is in the State, not to sabotage it, not to speculate on it, but to implement it. As we complete the changes in the current budget, we have received a balanced 2005 development budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u152	From the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, the national deputy of Aloshin will speak. Please prepare Valentine Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u153	Dear national deputies, distinguished representatives of the government. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, at its meeting on March 23, reviewed the previous version of the State Budget Act, the amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 and some other legislative acts. After a committee meeting with representatives of the committee and representatives of the Committee on Budget Affairs, some positions were clarified. But in general, the national deputies, members of the committee, celebrated the obvious social orientation of the project. Of course, it envisions an increase in social expenditure, the minimum wage, the restoration of inter-employment ratios, the repayment of underexpenditures, a significant increase in pension payments. We noted that one of the main circumstances that caused the need for a substantive review of the 2005 budget parameters was the considerable imbalance in the pension system caused by the political decisions of the previous government and the new laws adopted at the end of last year. Under these conditions, the new Cabinet of Ministers has not taken a normal course, a way of reducing social obligations to citizens, but is trying to do the best possible work on virtually all social programs, including pensions. We welcome the Government's efforts to implement the requirements of the law to set minimum pensions at the minimum of living. At the same time, such a minimum pension requirement substantially changes the overall model of the pension system. This, in turn, creates an urgent need for new projections of the prospects of both the solidarity and the generalized accumulation of this system. We need to provide social standards for pensioners not only this year but in the future. Sixteen percent of gross domestic product is currently spent on pension payments. This is an enormous amount, especially in view of the demographic outlook in Ukraine. Thus, the pension system objectively requires the acceleration of wage increases as the basic basis for pension benefits. What the government is proposing to do this year is right, but not enough. We think that, for an ambitious purpose, the government should set the task of achieving the minimum wage at the minimum cost of living for working persons. Then we will have a rational ratio of at least the minimum pension and the minimum wage. The government also needs to urgently initiate the development of a new current model of the Ukrainian pension system. And if all of us are not interested in achieving short-term political goals, but in creating stable social guarantees, we need to follow simple logic when actuaries speak, politicians need to listen. Unfortunately, the 2005 budget does not fully address the trends that will determine the relationship between the State Budget and the Pension Fund. Committee members and representatives of veteran organizations noted that the increase in one - year annual payments on Victory Day was positive, but they noted that the requirements of the relevant Ukrainian Law were not fully met. We also talked about the need for a substantial increase in the costs of the State budget for veteran health programmes, and the relevant decisions in the Supreme Council Order are based on hearings, based on the government's information on this issue. Especially relevant to us was the issue of the abolition of tax benefits for businesses with disabilities. And the discussion went on more than ever. And even after this discussion with the government, there's been some compromise, but there's still one important point: we'd like to make sure that the criteria for determining the aid are not 10 percent of the costs of these companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u154	Yes, thank you, Valery Borisovich. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, is invited to speak. The head of the Court of Auditors will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, the socio-economic problems that have not been solved by the proposed changes have already been discussed by previous speakers -- my colleagues. And I would like to draw your attention, honourable national MPs, and the attention of the electorate also to the fact that once again we are all witnesses to approaches that lead to a gross violation of the requirements of the Rules, to another attempt, I would say, to seek out the Supreme Council, the supreme legislative body of our state. First of all, this refers to almost ignoring the very procedure for considering this bill amending the State Budget 2005 Act and some other legislative acts. By the way, under some others, government means nothing more than 80 laws. Now the question is, what are you, honourable officials, who were recently Ukrainian national deputies, and Finance Minister Victor Pinzenik, by the way, in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, and until now have failed to complete his parliamentary powers? That you do not know whether you do not want to know that the requirements of section 2 of article 9.1.9 of the Supreme Council’s Rules provide that changes and additions to the State Budget Act cannot change existing legislation. If necessary, changes to the relevant law are first introduced, and only then are proposals for the relevant law, proposals for changes and additions to the State budget. And this bill changes, as I said before, to more than 80 laws, which are a gross violation of the Supreme Council's rules and legislation. It should be noted that according to the requirements of part one of article 9.1. 9 Rules during the financial year and the State Budget Act may be amended and supplemented by the submission of persons and bodies with the right to legislative initiative, but in the defined part of the second article 9.1. 3, as well as article 9.1.4 of the Rules - Term and procedure for consideration of proposals. It's clearly written here. In particular, it is predicted that within five days the changes to the State Budget Act are being considered by the Committees of the Supreme Council, which appoint rapporteurs to participate in the work of the Budget Committee. The committees and deputies shall forward their amendments to the draft budget to the Committee on Budgetary Questions. Have they been able to do so by taking advantage of this position? No, of course not. A lot of people didn't make it. The first reading of the bill has also been violated. You and I have received all these materials not in six days, as required by the Rules, six days before the Supreme Council, but only today, not before the morning session, before this bill is considered. Where are we in a hurry, ladies and gentlemen? The quality of the accepted State Budget depends on it. And you and I found out about this, especially last Tuesday, when amendments were made to the Ministry of Finance in the form of a technical error made by 158 pages. And to the end. Having examined the changes proposed by the draft law to part five of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Committee cannot agree with the Government's efforts to reduce the level of social protection of Ukraine's people's deputies and considers them unfounded, and it also proposes part three of article 33 not to touch. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u156	The head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentin Kostinović, is invited to attend. Next is the head of the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u157	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected Yulia Vladimirovna, respected colleagues! An analysis of the changes to the State budget carried out by the Court of Auditors showed that the Government had completed almost all of the budget and tax legislation and that the document was sufficiently systematic. More to the point, the problems raised by the Court of Auditors for seven years have been highlighted. This is primarily the rejection of tax preferences for target industries, entire industries, territories and enterprises, as well as the deadlock in the introduction of a budgeted tariff network. The budget is a strong social one, the basis of which is the fulfilment of the promises made during the election campaigns. This is a global practice, and the Government has taken the first step in this direction. But in the proposed budget adjustment, we have a denial of the innovative component of economic development, a violation of the balance between social payments and the development of a domestic producer, a forgotten development budget, and a high risk of inflation. Most importantly, how these problems will be addressed in the future is unfortunately unknown. The Government lacked the courage to address the value added tax in a fundamental way. 34 pages of amendments to the VAT law. It's a lot and it's practically nothing. Indeed, everyone knows that the legal field of tax is a source of food for Shadow Stalkers. Last year, it was possible to prevent the illegal refund of almost 6 billion bracelets. What a failure! And what is the effectiveness of this tax? In 2004, there were no more than 16 billion bracelets. At the same time, the budget for non-payments amounted to 12 billion bracelets. And given the annual write-off of taxes and the amount of reimbursements from the budget, there is a sustainable red balance under this budget. What is the point of retaining such a tax? He needs to be canceled. And if we really want to get the economy out of the shadows, we need to solve this problem as well as the business profit tax. The reduction in the corporate income tax from 30 to 25 per cent last year had a positive impact on the financial situation of enterprises. The planned revenue from the profit tax last year has been overcharged by 3.4 billion bracelets. But the pay-back schemes by reducing the profit tax have been maintained. Trade houses, subsidiaries and other brokering structures are in operation. Almost all profits remain, and no tax is paid. Reason. 25 per cent is a large rate. We've got to go down the profit tax. The issue of reparations to citizens of their savings was not included in the electoral promise package, but it must be addressed. That's 130 billion. Grieves and 55 million The depositors. There are specific people behind them. The draft changes leave provision for a further multi-stage set-off. Unpaid State taxes on oilegas and other enterprises are proposed not to “live money” but to be written off using transparent multi-stage schemes. This one-time action doesn't do anything. Most investors are not related to public services. Secondly, there will be no such sums in the years to come. The problem needs to be addressed in a meaningful and complete manner. Debts on payments must be taken into account in the composition of the public debt and payable to investors on behalf of the State in the form of bonds. Establish lines and provide annual funds for their repayment in the budget. And six billion grevens are the amount of tax debt that is to be written off. This year, it is useful to have “living” money in the budget and to address, above all, the problem of agrarians, pensions. This problem will still have to be solved, and the resource will be lost. Regrettably, the problems of local budgets have been overlooked. Unfortunately, I'm running out of time, then I'll move on to the last one, and maybe the main one. The Court of Auditors shall conduct an expert review of the draft budget, with a constant focus on the problem. When the Government tries to balance the budget, it makes many changes to the budget and tax legislation. Practically ignored were the adopted budgetary legislation and its magnificence. To a large extent, this is inherent in the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u158	Thank you very much. The Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Stelmah Vladimir Semenović, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u159	Your Honor, the Honourable Prime Minister, the Honourable National Deputies and the participants in this session. With regard to the document under consideration, from the point of view of the assessment of the national bank, we can say that this is really the budget that has been waiting for a long time because it affirms the human rights, namely the human rights, of every population, so that all of their living standards, the right level on this side, certainly part of the budget spending, can be criticized, frankly, in general, does not even allow conscience. At the same time, we have to assume that the second part must then be thoroughly analyzed and provided for these anticipated expenses. And in this context, we have certain questions, we've worked with the government so sincerely and fairly, but in the final budget we do have, if not threats, so to speak, a warning of a certain nature. Well, first of all, it's a tax-level issue at the added value. In our opinion, there are risks that can be derived from such a high level of income from the value added tax. The second question is excise, customs and so on. There is also a matter of risk. True, they can be, if the government has a tool for operational regulation on these problems, it can certainly be fixed and secured in the course of the year. In this regard, I would like to say that the overall macroeconomic indicators show that this budget is also entitled to life and can be implemented. We are particularly concerned about the issue of the National Bank, as we are obliged to do the basic function of maintaining the stability of the national currency, that is, practically keeping inflation at the normative level that you are dedicating today. And it's shown in the normative, so in the macroeconomic indicators of the government, it's 9.8 percent. And so, of course, our monetary lending policy will be subordinated to provide monetary measures for these government aspirations. In this regard, I would like to say the following. When we asked the government, please tell me, at this level of inflation, these tariff rises and so forth, and so on, the issues that directly affect inflation, they are taken into account, they firmly told us that they are taken into account. So, of course, we have to accept this budget before it's even implemented, because it's still extremely moderate in the level of budget deficit. I'm saying, what's moderate? Because if you look at, for example, those high wage growth rates of 57 percent, the pension payments that are determined by ambiguous numbers, that on the one hand is certainly a source of caution, but on the other hand, it is also a source of confidence and hope that people will actually get the right pay and the right pension insurance. And I want to ask you one more question and tell you that we've had a very thorough consideration of issues, this is a matter of monetary policy. I want to say again that we have the main function of ensuring the stability of the national currency as a whole. Monetary exchange policy is one of the factors that affects the general, let's say so, the stability of the national currency and the level of inflation. And it is extremely important to our country. I'm literally asking for a minute. It's extremely important. We say we're going to the market economy and so on. So in terms of monetary policy, Ukraine has long been in the market economy. Import exports accounted for 113 percent of GDP last year. So you realize that the change in the exchange rate, it has an enormous effect on both sides, and on the other side of it positive. Therefore, we will be extremely considerate in this regard. We're going to have economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u160	20 seconds Volodymyr Semenovich, he doesn't perform that often.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u161	But the level of this fortification is going to come out of the fact that it doesn't trigger inflation, but it does help reduce it. What I'm saying is that it's worse than strengthening the course or inflation. If, for example, the rate of change is 10 percent stronger, it's going to be about one or two percent lower inflation. But inflation involves an extremely broader aspect of all -- both government, and business, and everyone. So we're definitely going to get out of the regulation of general monetary policy and monetary policy, and by name, so that these nominal wage increases in real terms don't get worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u162	Thank you, Vladimir Semenovich. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you, so-called official speeches are over. Now we go from factions and then from committees, and then, if there's time left, it's already from the people's deputies. 90 minutes, we agreed. On board, please, the names of the national deputies who have been registered for three minutes. Now get out of here. The point is, we voted for three minutes. Please, Yuri Solomatin. What's the procedure, please? We agreed on the procedure for dealing with the matter at the beginning of the day, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u163	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 90 minutes are just 27 minutes from the recorded committees and factions. Let's multiply by three minutes, and given that they're going to the rostrum and they're going to leave, there's no time left for the deputies. So I would like to ask you and all of the session hall to have at least five deputies present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u164	Thank you. Let's move on to the performances. Dear colleagues, we have 90 minutes now. The time is when it will run out, then we will be determined further. Please, the faction leaders will be speaking now. On the board is the name of the National Deputies, the heads of the factions that have been recorded. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna invites her to the presentation. Prepare Vladimir the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u165	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The government's proposed bill on changes to the State Budget has raised conflicting estimates: on the one hand, proposals for almost 80 percent of the cost of restoring the capacity of the poorest people deserve our support. The National Party’s faction will vote in favour of all social articles that envision an increase in minimum wages, pensions, scholarships, assistance to families with children, and disabled persons. On the other hand, we are seriously alarmed by the fact that economic programs have already been tested on the altar of combating poverty. This reminds us of the parable of the careless boss who let a cow under his feet at a time of hunger. Because the main economic law has cooled down the already meager allocations to capital investment in industrial development, the agrarian sector, the regeneration of production, the creation of jobs. And it's obviously a serious mistake for the government. If we don’t put anything in this pot today, we can forget about the social spoons tomorrow. You can't cook cashew from an ax. Inflation turns millions into coins within hours, and the first alarming symptoms of the coin’s loss are already being traced. The market is already responding to fiscal innovations by increasing prices. That's why it's not easy for you and me, dear fellows, to say one hand for one hand today, and one hand for the other, at least cut it off. The National Party faction has formulated more than 30 proposals to the law. Most of them are counted. This is our offer to save VAT for the village. We stood up for him, just like the others. Let's move on. Our supply of gas, which is more than a thousand kilometers of waste gas. On the mandatory preservation of children's health benefits, on the treatment of children up to 16 years of age. However, before we vote on the budget, we need to know that there will be savings in the financing of centralized government capitals at least 900 million dollars, in that it's the construction of rural roads, gas pipelines, schools and so on, and it can't stop. The MPs also want to know if the draft law clearly removes the possibility of blocking the tax administration's accounts because it will cost all the vendors. The position of the factions of the People's Party is clear: the budget should be balanced in the social and economic spheres.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u166	Thank you. Vladimir Hare, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Prepare Fomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The faction of Social Democrats points out that we are looking at today not just the changes to the 2005 budget, but, according to the Prime Minister, a conceptual new document. Because it is by this law that the government seeks to regulate not only fiscal relations but also radically changes tax legislation. The faction supports the government's efforts to make Ukraine's economy more efficient by fighting its shadow sector, and we welcome the efforts of the Cabinet of Ministers to substantially fill the budget and ensure its social orientation. We will also vote in favour of a significant increase in all social benefits -- pensions, scholarships, birth aids, orphans and children with disabilities. However, we are not merely on a minimum pension of 332 bracelets, which is not an initiative of the government, but the rules of the current Ukrainian law, which is not exercised by the authority of 12.01. 05th. We insist on the mechanism of differentiation of pensions, which is enshrined in this law, because budget changes change replaces what makes the rules of the law worse. We also insist that one - time assistance at birth be provided in accordance with the law that went through the first reading rather than the government’s proposals. That is, 8883 bracelets once and for all. We don't share or support the authority's motives for monthly payments. The changes to the budget do not, unfortunately, provide for full implementation of the Ukrainian Law on disposable money assistance until 9 May for the disabled of the Great Homeland War and for the participants. And this is the year of the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory! The government’s proposed special application of the Money Income Index Act makes pensions, wages, scholarships, and other monetary payments unprotected from inflation. We're also talking to the government: stop any speculation and pianism about a bad legacy and a budget hole of 32 billion dollars. The need for funds is driven by a legislative basis that was adopted after the approval of the 2005 budget. This is also pension legislation initiated by Mr. Pinzenik, the current minister of finance, and this is assistance at birth -- this is a groundbreaking promise -- canceling the 39th article of the current budget and the other novices of the Cabinet of Ministers: salary and so on -- covering this amount. In the absence of time, I would like to talk a little bit about the risks and dangers of budget changes. This is the unreality of macroeconomic indicators, this is the critical fiscal burden on the economy, the unwarranted expectation of revenue from tax evasion, clearly low inflation rates, a significant reduction in budget allocations for capital and sector programs. These and other reasons, we think, will lead to a decline in the economy, negative social consequences. The government’s proposed procedure and terms of reference for the bill made it impossible for him to discuss and accept professionally with the participation of the deputy corps. But given the high social parameters proposed by the bill, and the way it's presented by the government, such a small political blackmail of MPs, the faction of Social Democrats will vote for it in any procedure of consideration, but warns the new government of full responsibility for the consequences of its implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u168	Katerina Fomenko, Union MP. Prepare Vasade.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u169	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! We once again become hostages to you by adopting this Act to Amend the Law of the State Budget in 2005. Yes, we should vote, and we will vote in favour of this law, because we no longer have the right to use long-term patience, especially pensioners, and to give them the opportunity, at least in April, to get those funds and the increased pension that has been counted since January. I don't know how you do it. I've got people in the county erasing the days on the calendar, waiting for this holiday. On the other hand, when we propose and vote on this law, we run into an even greater corner of the problem of local self - government, because at some point I emphasize that once we delegate state powers to them that are not financially strengthened and that is, in my opinion, one of the biggest problems of this bill. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I regret that I cannot confirm and agree with your calculations, because at a meeting of the Budget Committee, at a government meeting, we presented our accounts. It's not that difficult and it's understandable. In order for local government authorities to make that wage increase, they need 23.3 billion wages. Today, in that document you received, it's almost 2 billion less. Here's what you want to explain, but it is. I, the Justice Council, want to say that this deficit was created when we adopted the Law on the State Budget 2005 and there was no minimum wage in 262 bracelets at the time, but you and I then laid down an article 110, which required us to make this deficit at the time of the February 15 budget and to send it to the local self-government authorities. Unfortunately, this is not done today. I want to say that we can agree with these sources that you named here today in your tables. Yes, local budgets will also receive more equalization grants of one and a half billion. They are invited to receive more personal income from an increase in the tax on natural persons, from the income of natural persons. But it's just 2.7 billion. You can also agree with another 750 million out of a single tariff, it's also a resource that comes later to the local self-governance authorities, but today I'm calling a billion-800 deficit, which is over 200 million, and we've proposed to increase the grant, an additional grant for the imbalance of the network of budget institutions, today we have. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the following. To vote on the budget, but when the Law is amended in half and nine months, I know that there is a transcript of our performances today, put them on the table and send them to the local authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u170	Tariel Shaković Vasaze of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine is invited to speak. Bogdan Hubsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u171	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected Yulia Vladimirovna, respected colleagues. Undoubtedly, the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs supports the part of the budget that has a social dimension. But there are a lot of questions today about the part that regulates or completely eliminates the preferences that industry has had in our country. I wanted to stop at AutoZAZA today, but let me answer, Vladimir Mihajlovich, the numbers you raised here today from the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to listen carefully. There are 21,000 people working on AutoZAZA. For AutoZAZ, there are 837 Ukrainian factories today. Together with the liaisons, ZAZ paid a billion dollars to the budget today. AutoZAZ invested in the past year and this year, an average of 400 million. Development of production. I want to draw your attention to what in particular? Unless the investment programme is completed, unless the technical re-arrangement of the plant is aimed at achieving the necessary degree of localization, which today determines how a competitive price can be determined, all this work goes into the basket. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in AutoZAZ, a billion bracelets were invested by a foreign investor. AutoZAZA said: “Look at the profits and the wages they pay. But Victor Mikhailovich did not say that AutoZAZ had received a worker's grant three years ago, and 18,000 people received only 70 bracelets. I'd like to draw your attention, please tell me that we need to do all of this today and not put it in technical re-arms? It would be fair to say, yes, there were benefits, there was such a profit, this profit went somewhere off-shore. You didn't invest, please tell me there aren't enough people here or there are, many in the government that know the classic schemes: how to make a profit. Instead of being proud of this enterprise today, we have such a bearing in all information agencies and today in the rostrum. I would like, if possible, to appoint any commission to review the work of this plant, with the participation of parliamentarians, a member of the Government. Let's see if it's really evil. We will immediately close and retain everything that has been paid to the factory in the form of benefits. Or second, if it's a wonderful national economic recovery scheme, why.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u172	Yes. Bogdan Hubsky, respected colleagues, well. Well, 10 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u173	Vladimir Mihajlovich, and last, you know, you introduced the draft law, before last night there was an increase in duty and that allowed something else to continue, but it's going to happen today you've deleted the definition of a car. I would like to make a proposal, Vladimir Mihajlovich, this is a proposal to take account of the following changes, chapter 8, which amends Ukraine's Single Customs Tariff Act, to add a new paragraph, paragraph three: allow, supplement article 18, a new part. The meaning of this is: A ready - to - do vehicle includes a body, a frame, and an engine in the congregation, or a set; a body and a frame in the congregation, or a set; a body and an engine in the congregation, or a set; a frame and an engine in the congregation, or a set. You're not going to put the whole country on the door.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u174	Thank you. Bogdan Hubsky. It's the only party in Ukraine. The only Ukraine faction, I'm sorry. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u175	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The preconceived wealth of the State is the welfare of its citizens. And the faction of the "One Ukraine" Party has always advocated the priority of man's interests. And first of all, at this very point of view, we were looking at the proposed changes to the budget. We clearly support the government in raising the social standards of life, because this is completely consistent with our programming principles. First, our faction has repeatedly stressed the need to raise pensions and wages to a minimum of living. And finally today, the government is ready to do it. And that's why we're definitely in. Second of all, increasing child support. At our own time, this size was increased fourfold to 846. But now the government is moving on, increasing by 11 times, so all we can do is welcome this. Similarly, the government is proposing a substantial increase in the number of social benefits per month is helping single mothers, children, disabled people, orphans and other socially unsecured people. And that's why the "One Ukraine" faction clearly supports these measures that respond to our position. At the same time, however, a number of reasonable suggestions are not taken into account. First. The year 2006 marked the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. There was a proposal to increase the cost of feeding the affected children because we know that the price of food has increased significantly. Second, it's an increase in annual aid to disabled people, war veterans, as it is thanks to the laws that we have adopted today. Next, the unresolved issue of compensation for actual payments and the delivery of pensions to farm workers, fixed agricultural tax payers, is very important because these people will not actually be able to get a pension if there is no money in the farm. Now there are specific suggestions for the stenographer. We are firmly opposed to the amendments to the Civil Code, which provide for the right of the tax authority to administrative arrest without trial or investigation. And we thank the government for accepting this proposal. Therefore, the corresponding chapter 23 of article 1074 of the Civil Code needs to be removed. Next. It is proposed to eliminate tax legislation for firms in the Chernobyl area. Of course, all benefits need to be eliminated, and there is abuse in opening branches in other areas and not paying taxes. That's right. At the same time, to avoid throwing away a child when specific businesses are operating in the area where they work and where their services are being consumed. It may be that this section of the 16 project on changes to article seven of the relevant Law on the Legal Status of Territories should be left, but that appropriate changes to legislation could not be made to prevent branches from opening up the VAT because there would be such a social explosion. So this is a very important and difficult question. That's why we've generally formulated a position that we support the budget. But our proposal is to consider and consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u176	Mikhailo Melniczuk from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. Get Bondarenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u177	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. On another occasion, Parliament is considering the country’s main financial document. It would seem to be a normal work process, but everyone feels the specificity of the moment. What is it? In fact, this is the first serious step of the new government, which in turn lays the foundation for the development of Ukraine for the future. It is this document that will allow people to appreciate the extent to which their hopes for new authority are being realized. The main macroeconomic indicators presented by the ministries of finance and economics allow us to assume that the proposed budget option is indeed balanced and realistic. Not everything is organized by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We are concerned about the fate of the village and the agricultural sector as a whole. The noise is practically destroyed. The budget is obviously not enough to restore it. The government must pay back 200 million dollars for already built social facilities. At least 600 million dollars should now be sent to the village in this direction. We're not okay with Afghans, where there's no law enforcement every year. And for this reason, the foot and white church organizations of the Afghans turned to Alexander Moroz. We believe that there is no limit to Parliament to issues such as the order of government debt operations, the allocation of subsidies to investment projects, the predisposition of technological catastrophes, the approval of objects and the size of capital investments. It may not be wise to change the very philosophy of budgetary relations with regard to the rejection of the practice of credit from the budget and the transition to the cost of credit. We don't think we can use the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund for purposes that aren't specific to him. We are not entirely satisfied with the liberalization of the government's economy to achieve targeted programs and goals. Yes, there are some flaws and problems. But they can't stop the positive trends that this budget has in place for ordinary people. We cannot but vote in favour of our software positions, which are clearly implemented in the budget. We will vote in favour of the marked increase in the size and differentiation of pensions and salaries, the increase in the size of scholarships, the 11-time increase in support of a child's birth, the assistance of single mothers, the disabled of childhood, the children under care. Yes, the government eliminates much of the tax benefits, and that is what needs to be done. Maybe we should take a look at something and leave it. For the first time in a few years, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the Ukraine State Budget Act 2005. To emphasize, we do so, not for political reasons, but in the name of those who have chosen to win the new power in the hope that the government will vindicate them and our hopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u178	Yes, Gregory Ivanovich Bondarenko of the Group "Democratic Ukraine." Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u179	The Democratic Ukraine parliamentary group in a serious discussion decided to support the Ukrainian Act of Change in the State Budget in the first and second reading. Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! I'm an MP from the majority constituency, and I'm interested not only in the state's budget, but also in the region's budget, especially in the Kyiv region, where my district is located. The plan of payments to the general fund of this year's State Budget foresees that Kiev will have to make 2 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2014-2020. That's right. This is greater than 28.4 percent. And on the average, in Ukraine, it's 20.7. To justice, we see, far away. Worse yet, the planned indicator is unrealistic. As a result, the area was less than 66.3 million dollars in January. The end result is the delay in payment of wages, the incomplete payment of energy consumers. The second moment, forming an expenditure portion of the Kyiv budget, Minfin did not provide the cost of paying the employee’s salary. More than 88 million dollars are needed for these purposes. What kind of socially oriented policy can we talk about here? And finally, the third, on the need for a targeted subsidy to obtain the infrastructure of a multi-paved city of Slaviti is an appropriate law, a special decree by the President of Ukraine, a subsidy is foreseen every year, but every time it is far from complete. And it's never been done. It's like that for 2005, and it's too bad. There are only 3 million dollars available, and the need is not much - 9.1 million. On the basis of the above, I propose that, above all, for the Kyiv region, a plan for payments to the general budget of the State budget of 2.5 billion dollars should be set in line with the rate of growth of the same indicator for Ukraine. The second, targeted subsidy to Slavotic City increase by 6.1 million dollars, i.e. to provide the necessary expenses, to do everything as legislation requires. And third, lastly, I warn, and in general, the MPs warn Minfin, the meager funds that will be allocated to the development of the national economy will be negatively affected by the following budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u180	Yes, Oleg Grigorovich Bilorus, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Next up will be Dunne.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u181	Dear Chief, Honourable Madam Prime Minister, Your Honorable Colleagues! Millions. 14 million people with disabilities, 4 million pensioners, four million people with disabilities, millions of children with low-income families -- in fact, 48 million Ukrainian citizens have been waiting for this day and waiting for us to decide with you to make the first social, national, human budget in Ukraine. I think that its significance is also that gradually under this authority, with the government of national trust, we will finally reach the family budget and see what the state can do to improve the lives of citizens. The importance and role of this budget is also that, for the first time in an independent Ukraine, a marked transition from the glorious economy of cheap labour to the economy of skilled, expensive labour and high pay. This high pay will give us a new self-development locomotive, give us an increase in demand, and demand is the engine of production. And I think when some colleagues say that we're losing our development budget, we're gaining this development budget, and we're gaining potential for Ukraine's self-development. We are faced with the challenge of increasing the rate of economic growth. But economic growth is not an end in itself, you can raise interest, statistics can do anything. And when we give people money, we give people a pension, we give hope, then there'll be an economy, and there'll be a quality of growth. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, I declare the unanimous support of this budget, and I propose that all my colleagues support it. This budget allows us to move to a new level of social standards for the material security of our citizens. 332 bracelet pensions are not the 59th grade pension, which was one for both the academics and the cleaning woman. 332 bracelets of minimum wage are small, but today this step needs to be taken. If anyone wants to protect the interests of corporations, the interests of big business.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u182	Thank you. Yes, Valentina Dunne, NDP Republic. Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! Respectable members of the Government! Undoubtedly, the draft law that has been submitted deserves the greatest attention from both Parliament and the public, and the faction of the People's Democratic Party welcomes and deserves the support of the members of the Supreme Council. Yet, what do we mean by the social dimension of the budget? It is certainly both pensions and salaries and scholarships and other social benefits. Yes, increasing these costs in the budget is a serious step “to meet people” is undeniable. But could such a step be considered to our fellow citizens to effectively abandon the Government's State support for housing, repair and road construction programmes, encourage domestic producers, severely weaken social insurance, finance the coal industry? Is refusing to support the development of small cities, the Chernobyl area, the territories, priority development a strengthening of social policies? All of this reminds us of the classic situation when two steps back from humans are taken in a step toward humans. From the national industrial sector, which is primarily designed to form a material basis for social policy. In essence, the document is not a social document, but an economic one. This is an economic tool for achieving the social goals set. In this regard, at the very attractive social peak of the budget iceberg, its underwater part is clearly offset by the budgetary deficit of the territorial communities and is a serious destabilizer of its political sustainability and poses a threat, I would say, to a budgetary disaster. This is primarily local budgets. Once the proposed law has been adopted, it is estimated that the budget deficit in the field will exceed nearly 2 billion under the protected articles alone. Grieve. It is on the ground that, rather than narrow-minded social programmes, social infrastructure for total consumption is being developed. The lack of resources in local budgets for the renovation of housing funds, roads, communications, financing of health facilities, transport communications and this list can be continued, with all good intentions, the Government will never allow it to pursue a strong state-wide policy rather than a economic and political social policy. I think that because the developers know these weaknesses, budget discussions were hardly held before this hearing. I mean, the proposed bill, if you rephrase the words of the famous song, "it's joy with tears in your eyes." The NDP faction proposes that the distinguished MPs, the “rejoice” of the budget be adopted on first reading, and the “salts” should be discussed further in committees and factions and then brought to the discussion of the next Parliamentary meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u184	Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Konovaluk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u185	Dear Head, Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party appreciated the project proposed by the government to change the budget, based on our political priorities and the programming principles that we have advocated for more than fifteen years. We analyzed the social orientation of the budget, the interests of the Ukrainian producer, the budgetary policy of the national, spiritual and cultural revival of Ukraine. With regard to the social component, the faction fully supports the government’s policies, and then our minister of social policy and the work of Kirilenka towards a substantial increase in pensions, wages and social benefits. Regarding the interests of a national producer, which has been analyzed by examples of different forms of ownership, our findings are as follows: the proposed budget of the Government has not only been able to balance the interests of social and economic policy, but it has threatened the further functioning of many productions. For example, a reduction in customs tariffs for imports into Ukraine of agricultural production by some product positions - 10-15 times, while a reduction in subsidies to a Ukrainian producer - can place most active meat and processing enterprises at the risk of bankruptcy. Or an increase of 30.4% of the excise duty on Ukrainian beer, with unhindered access to the national market in the same way Her products from other countries will quickly lead to a situation where we'll all forget the taste of the famous Oboloni or Chernigovsky, and instead the Ukrainian's salary will create jobs somewhere in Germany or Sweden. So the faction asks the government to reduce excise duties from 30% to 10%, thus ensuring the minimum profitability of this sector. Similarly, Ukrainian shipbuilding, automobiles and power-generating industries, chemical industries, where the imbalance in customs, tariff and tax policies can result in the rapid laundering of negotiable funds and the resulting decline in production. As for the national rebirth, the Ukrainian People's Party faction welcomes the first steps taken by the Government to finance the program of reproduction of the historical and cultural heritage, development of the Ukrainian language and the Ukrainian book. At the same time, the amount of money allocated is not enough to form a Ukrainian face in our country. Bottom line: we will vote for the budget in the first and second readings, but we will do our best to support the national producer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u186	Valerius Illich, faction of the Ukraine region. Stepan Gavrish will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u187	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Reverend Julia Volodymyrovna, you know, there's probably no point in commenting on individual indicators right now, expressing a certain position on the money offered by the government. But I would like to start by saying that unfortunately, for the first time, the Supreme Council has probably given up its main task, the function that relates to the consideration and approval of the State budget. We've narrowed our functions down to the fact that we can't at all influence that we really can't work out and improve everything that's now being proposed by the government. My dear colleagues, I would like to say that this budget may be correcting what has been happening for another six months in this room. We've heard with you that there are hidden incomes of 17 billion, we've heard that there is an attitude to the development of the domestic industry and so on. I would like to say that, really, we can support the government in that the government is trying very hard to review the issue of benefits, to correct social policy issues so that every citizen can feel the increase that we're planning. I want to say that what's important to us is that we not only have monetary influences, but we remember that in 2000, when the budget itself, it consisted of 1 out of every 4 dollars of income being inflationary. Because if we're up 17 percent, and the price increase over the last two months has already gone up 16 percent of what the pensioners will get. We're going to ruin everything that we've tried every year to create in order for our own economy to provide, in fact, additional cost and so that industry can increase citizens' income. There are no new jobs in this budget, dear colleagues. There's no idea in this budget that now there's a hidden deficit of 7 billion dollars. I want to say, give me an answer, if this is a social orientation, an increase in expenditure on the maintenance of administrations, an increase in the level of law enforcement, the Attorney General's Office gets an additional 100 million dollars to increase the level of criminal cases that has now begun in Ukraine. If we refuse treatment for the AIDS of other diseases today. Destroyed, canceled the Oncology program. Some programs have been limited to building housing for young people. Is this the social orientation of the budget? I mean, no. So once again we insist, we will support this budget in the first reading. But what we want to do is have an individual influence to maintain balance, to preserve the ideology that the government is proposing, but to work on. Take away all the flaws, unfortunately, that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u188	Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u189	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Prime Minister of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues. Whatever we say in this session room today, we have an unprecedented government action that involves not only changes, large-scale changes to the State budget, but actually a proposal to vote on the new State budget, but also an attempt to change the economic model of Ukraine itself. In view of the long - term work of the National Security Council Secretary, Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko, this issue can be said to be a matter of national security at this time. No matter how much we criticize the government right now, it's clear that the issues to the State budget are too much to avoid the very possibility of criticizing the government. But the more we criticize this State Budget, the more it becomes a feeling that it is voted by almost a constitutional majority, taking into account the speeches of my colleagues. The problem is that Ukraine's calls to join European societies by the government are being implemented first in the social sphere. Yes, it's an extremely high risk, but it's taken over by the government. We're not the legislators, the experts who won't be responsible for the implementation of this State budget -- that is, the government that, politically and firstly, understands very well in begging for a shift in Ukraine's difficult crisis first in the social sector and assumes the responsibility to raise it to 80 percent, which means quality of life already in modern Europe. To that end, of course, he takes an extraordinary step. Three percent of the "fat Ukrainian cats" are trying to make it possible for 70 percent of the poor population to live. There are many risks that the government, by throwing this challenge, understands that other economic programs are to be adopted budgetably to replace the benefits that have been used, including not only those directly disbursing dividends from the Ukrainian economy, but also those sectors that have been building innovative technologies that have been looking for their new markets in the European square. So it seems to me that in these circumstances, the government is acting quite logically, trying to abandon the basic lobbying of corporate self-interest by moving to systemic politics. If the government’s offer is successful, it will show time. Whether the government will be able to keep this situation at the level of social supply indifferent, for it will be impossible to lower it further. And that means that the government is going to be looking for cooperation with us, with the Ukrainian Parliament, and that means once again that we are doing our primary mission to the electorate. My voters want me to vote in favour of this House. Unfortunately, I cannot agree that the other hand will not vote, given the number of members of my faction. I'll vote with two hands. Please support the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u190	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich is invited from the Communist faction to the performance. Prepare the Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! I would like to state immediately that the Communist faction insists on voting only on first reading to make appropriate proposals for second reading. Why? The budget situation is similar to when a terminally ill person is given a horse dose of adrenaline. It'll cheer him up in 10 minutes. He'll kill him in 10 minutes. Even superficial knowledge of the bill shows that it was not prepared by economists, but by astrologers who do not want to take into account that the economy is in a state of crisis. At first glance, the picture is attractive: the minimum wage is growing, pensions are growing, certain types of minimum material assistance. Yes, salaries and pensions should be raised to a level not below the subsistence minimum. But even faster today, and uncontrollablely, prices. Social power populism is accompanied by predatory liberalization, sharp cuts in government funding for key sectors of the economy and, above all, the agro-industry complex. This will inevitably lead to a catastrophic collapse in production and the rise in unemployment. What conclusions would you like to draw after having read the draft? The Government is hostageing the national economy of transnational corporations and global speculative capital, completing Kuchma's deindustrialization of the country, providing benefits to foreign producers and cancelling them for the national. It is immoral to double the benefits of companies of the Deaf and the Blind. Second, the Government was actually pushing the national producer into strict international competition. Thirdly, the Government stated that it was not intended to increase domestic investment and create new jobs and naturally strengthen economic sovereignty. The reduction in the cost of academic science, the education system deliberately destroys the country's national assets, its intellectual potential, i.e. Ukraine becomes a third world country. Ukraine is becoming a police state because funding for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs has increased dramatically. The new budget version destroys democracy because it cuts down the economic base of local self-government, that is, the foundation of democracy. The budget does not provide for the costs of innovative policies, i.e. aviation, shipbuilding, domestic automotive development under such conditions will not continue to develop. The Government deliberately does not want to understand that today the main issue of social policy is to stop the rise in the prices of essential goods and to regulate the payment of VAT, including the seven skynergos Zaporozhye, Lviv, Poltava, Pricarpathia, Suma, Ternopol, Chernigov. 60 million were stolen from the country. Thus, there has been no more dangerous budget for the country. The craftsmanship is that the social plank is high and the economy will finally collapse - this is the whole balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u192	Yes, Kachur Pavel Stepanovich, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to speak. Get ready. There'll be speeches from the committees, Chersun. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u193	Paul Kachur, faction of our Ukraine, 117th Railway Electoral District. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, reverend Julia Volodymyrna, dear friends! I'd like to take you back to that part of the Minister of Finance's report when you were being treated. When it came to the goals of the government in adopting the changes to the budget, it seems to me that there was no one in the session hall who did not agree with the purpose of the government. And I think by voting for the budget today, we're going to support those steps so that we can finally get a little closer to the goal of overcoming poverty in our country. I would like to state immediately the main position of the faction when we adopt the budget. The "Our Ukraine" faction will vote in favour of the proposed bill. Our position is based on the following facts. One: it's really a social budget. For the first time, public support through the budget has become a poor and socially vulnerable person, not a specific enterprise or even a whole industry. Second: we support government action to create a level playing field for all business subjects regardless of their proximity to power. Thirdly, we support steps towards implementing transparent mechanisms, both to fill the budget and to transparent mechanisms for state budget expenditure. Fourth: we have come out of what the government normally does in the dialogue, and as we prepare the budget for today’s consideration, we have been able to resolve very many of the problematic issues that have already been discussed, and for the sake of time, I will not stress this. I'd like to take a second look at specific proposals that are systemic, or maybe in a particular case, specific. First. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, today in parallel with the changes to the budget, we are making a number of major changes to the existing legislation. I have an offer: to organize a monitoring group and in a continuous monitoring mode, even though in men for three months we've been investigating what kind of response is going to be to the economy, and so that we can react quickly if we build some negative moments. And I think that then such bills should be considered in the order of priority. The other one. I'd like to pay attention to the donor raw material, first of all, for companies of light industry. In the absence of time, I will not stop, I am talking about an avalanche. I spoke to the minister of finance, there are ways to solve it, but we have no right to allow the money of businesses to be washed through. the banking system only because of this procedure. Third. Local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, now the speeches from the committees are coming. Mikola Haritonovich Shershun of the Committee on Environmental Policy. Prepare Georgi Korniyovich Kuchkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u195	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head! Madam Prime Minister! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank those government experts who were preparing the country's main financial document. People were promised a social budget and it is, so I personally and the committee will support the proposed draft budget, primarily in terms of social programs. But as we know, there are spots in the sun. As we studied the committee’s project carefully, we noted that according to individual articles, the government did not take into account the mistakes of its predecessors and risk taking on the same rakes. Yes, the second part of article 41 is once again the centralized purchase of treatment travel. This approach last year has led to the replacement of treatment with health care, the ignoring of diagnosis, and the needs of people in local bases. The same is true of the purchase of medical equipment. No one was interested in the needs of medical facilities. That's what they bought. There will also be problems in part 3 of this article. Old experience of compensation for the travel of this confirmation. Therefore, the committee proposes to remove parts 2 and 3 from article 4. Next. A battle has been declared for the health of the nation and for the village. The area, and not only from this village, is written out of many villages, terrible things. An increase in thyroid and cancer. And that's a bitter truth. And the government is proposing a significant reduction in funding for the health care of the Chernobyl population. It's not human. And I, Julia Volodymyrna, would ask you very much not to save on this article. Please pay attention to this. The capital cost of the Chernobyl construction program is also decreasing. This is not possible, for when schools, hospitals, gardens, and businesses are built in villages, people believe that polluted land is being restored and children have a future. We need to keep our expenses at the level of at least last year, without taking people’s faith. The European Union sees environmental security as part of national security and stability. We should also go this way and set aside not half a percent as before, but at least five percent of GDP as in the world. Today, fifteen percentages of the country’s territory are constantly being submerged, and so much of the needs and funding of adequate protection programs is about ten million, and we estimate that some 70 million are needed. That's right. Our committee is concerned about the catastrophic reduction in the costs of geological intelligence that work for the country’s future. The proposed figures are the way to bankruptcy, and here I completely agree with my colleague Solomon. We'll lose over a hundred scientists if we don't re-expenditure to hydrometereology, at least last year's level. Dear colleagues, distinguished government officials, it is long overdue
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u196	Thank you, Mikola Haritonovich. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, Head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Catherine Samuel will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u197	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, respected colleagues. In considering the bill, members of our committee welcomed the government's desire to bring the domestic economy out of the shadows, to increase the budget revenue to address the pressing social problems. We are grateful to the government and the budget committee for having listened to our vote at the closing stage, and the government has refused to break the guarantee and pension system of the country’s defenders, the veterans of the Great Homeland War, and to review the important provisions of the law on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from the Ukrainian Armed Forces in connection with their reform, and some other legislative acts. Change the order in which you want to calculate your pension. This will certainly reduce the tension in the military and veteran environments. Unfortunately, there is another picture of how the country's defence needs are met. Defence is not the only area where, in the process of reviewing the main fiscal document, the State's financial document, budgetary allocations are falling, and in these most important directions. As a way of preparing a unified rapid response force, developing, purchasing and maintaining weapons and military equipment, preserving weapons on military assails, arsenals and warehouses, disposal of ammunition, solid rocket fuel, intercontinental ballistic missiles, construction, and housing for military personnel. In view of the already dire, deplorable situation of the armed forces, I must say. That the defence budget, which has been the survival budget for all these years, can actually be the budget for the collapse and destruction of the country's armed forces. This also applies to the defence and industrial complex. does not provide adequate budgetary support, even the most important, strategic measures envisaged for the approved year, by the state programme for the development of arms and military technology for the period up to 2015. Only because of lack of time are the most important programs not called. Not only will this have a negative impact on Ukraine’s security, but it will also result in the stagnation of entire sectors of the defence industry as well. Even before the irreversible loss of many high-tech technologies. The government needs to take this into account. In the end, I can't help but express here, speaking out of Parliament's rostrum of concern at the fact that the ongoing personnel of the tsunami is an actual illustration. Mass removal at all levels based on the political motives of experienced leaders, patriots have already led to a dangerous decline in the level of professionalism and even the paralysis of power, especially in the district chain. It also touched the industrial defense complex. This will result in irreparable losses for the interests of the State, our people. If that's part of the plan for a new power. Let the people of Ukraine know about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u198	Catherine Sameilik, Head of the Youth Policy Committee, prepare for Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, members of the Government, the Committee has instructed me to express concern about the draft amendments to the Ukraine Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget. year People who have gained the athletic glory of Ukraine, the Soviet Union. I do not understand why no amendment, even in part, is included in the work. First. I'm going to the government, there's a fee for land with physical culture, sports and so on, which is the result of the disagreement between the provisions of article 70 of the third draft Law on Change to the State Budget and the proposed changes to part one of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Land Pay, which states that the words of sports buildings used for purpose are deleted. And that's why there won't be a list of the Cabinet of Ministers. And what you're going to do with sports, kids' sports schools, pioneer camps, I don't know. But you're going to have to take care of that. Next. This means the final collapse of the sports-mass movement in the rural area. That means 300 schools will be closed. This means that the 400,000 children who are employed in these schools will be expelled. The cost of developing a material and technical base of our sport is declining by 20 million. And that's all in the background of the President's statement that there will be no cuts. But most of us were impressed by the fact that virtually the entire tourism sector had been destroyed in this budget, that it had virtually not found support, that it had not found funding in the country's well-funded budget. But these areas, they create the image of Ukraine and they need support. And, of course, youthful housing lending. The program is down 20 million. Julia Volodymyrna, I raised your bill, which you introduced a year and a half ago. You write 500 million dollars here as a permanent component in the Ukrainian government, under whatever circumstances, plus 1 percent of GDP per year. So what is preventing you from doing this is a very important task. But the hope of housing for young middle - aged people — even below the average — is limited to this program. You've practically done everything you can to keep the pit. 70 million homeless per night have developed and 70 percent have been made available for housing. I think that's all we need to take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u200	Oleg Zarubinsky of the European Integration Committee. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u201	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Madam Prime Minister. On 23 March of this year, the European Integration Committee reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget for Ukraine and certain legislative acts. The European Integration Committee has decided to support the adoption of the bill. At the same time, the Ukrainian National Deputies pointed out that the requirements of chapters four and five of the Ukrainian Law on Cross-border Cooperation for the Development of Cross-border Cooperation have not been met in the development of the Ukraine State Budget for 2005. In addition, individual provisions of the bill may have a negative impact on negotiations for Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization if adopted. The committee therefore recommends that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be absolutely specific. First. To anticipate the development of cross-border cooperation in accordance with the Ukrainian law on cross-border cooperation. The other one. Delete the following provisions of the draft Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2005" which run counter to the article seventh paragraph of the second subparagraph of "f" is the agreement on the application of article seven. Part of the third article of the ninth article, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is entitled, quote, "to set minimum customs value on individual goods moving across customs borders." Article 75, paragraph 2, which amends Article 267 of the Customs Code. This is a method of valuation of the price of the contract for the goods being imported, resulting in an important edition of this article of the Customs Code, which provides that the customs value of the goods is the price of the contract, and I quote: "..but no less than the minimum customs value." Third. Remove the proposals for an increase in import duties on cars and other motor vehicles, the 8703 product group in the customs tariff of Ukraine, to which amendments are proposed in the section "Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Taxation" of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the 2005 Act "On State Budget" and some other legislative acts such as those which conflict with the schedule of proceedings proposed by Ukraine in the negotiations on its accession to the World Trade Organization. In general, once again, given these very specific comments and recommendations, the committee has decided to adopt the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u202	Andrew Schlell of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Get ready, Onechück.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u203	Thank you. I would like to say literally a few words about the serious enough talk that took place at the Committee on Law Enforcement with the Powerful Ministers, as it is customary to call it. But we still have a serious enough structure to deal with, such as the State Committee on Execution. And this is a structure that supports much of the population of Ukraine. That's 200 grand in order. Ukrainian citizens are in various forms of imprisonment - in investigative detention facilities, places where they are deprived of their liberty. And that brings with it problems of maintenance, of keeping people in places where they can be deprived of their will. Good thing there was a consensus with the government to raise the standard of maintenance. And I would like to point out that the standard of keeping a person in prison is five bracelets a day. It's a meager standard. I don't know who can live and feed even the prisoner, even the person who committed the crime, but she's not being punished for the death, she's not being punished for the torture, she's only being punished for the isolation from society for what she did. That's what special institutions do. But there's more to it than that. Instigators are people who, in principle, have not yet proved their guilt. Therefore, there should also be sufficient improvements in the form of maintenance. Of course, it's not going to be one budget, it's not going to be done in maybe two, three years, but what I'd like to pay attention to is, essentially, the newly appointed head of the State Committee for Execution of Punishment, so that he and the government can develop normal, human maintenance conditions, i.e. he raised standards, and later he can look for funds. And in general, I would like to point out that this time, absolutely tolerantly, the funding of the law enforcement system has been adjusted. And in the end, we have to go out and rebuild the law enforcement agencies. And unfortunately, this time we haven't been able to find funding for the reform of the law enforcement system, but we are confident that this reform will have to be carried out in the future. I am also convinced that by offering social solutions, the government will solve many of the social problems of those who protect our order because raising wages, raising living standards should also increase the standard of living of those who provide law enforcement and law enforcement. According to pensions, after all, it is necessary to pay due respect that the budget committee has found consensus with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u204	Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, of the Committee on Legal Policy, is invited to speak. Les Stepanovich Tanjuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u205	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the honorable government! An important part of the State budget’s spending system is the issue of judicial funding. And it should be noted that in reviewing the draft law on amending the State budget, the government has taken real steps to improve the situation in this area. In particular, it is anticipated that the funding of appeals courts and local courts will be increased by 100 million dollars. I hope that this, along with the updated efforts of the Supreme Council by procedural legislation, will allow citizens to count on better judicial service, fair and swift. Noting this positive, I cannot help but stress some of the issues that have not been resolved in the draft budget. In particular, it is a lack of funds to provide the courts with adequate facilities and, above all, local courts, especially those located in rural areas. Just notice, and these figures are worth telling them that on January 1, 2005, out of the 753 courts of general jurisdiction, the main mass of the courts are local courts, only 48 courts, respected colleagues, that is, six percent of the premises that meet the requirements of the judiciary. The rest of the courts need capital repair, reconstruction, or new construction. Madam Prime Minister, the Ukrainian citizens remember our debate with you about this in the approval of the government program, and this is evidenced by the letters I receive, including from the members of the housing and building cooperative Obolon-11 of Kiev, where it is rightly required that steps to correct the state of affairs of the courts with regard to the provision of premises and organizational technology be linked to improving the quality of the judiciary. And in this, Ukrainian citizens support us. However, we are people of state and must understand that the administration of justice is a fundamental function of the State, as important as the rule of law and the work of the executive branch. Here, called, you have to go out and put it. So I think that today the government can and, I hope, agree with the proposal that I'm making on behalf of the Legal Policy Committee to allocate an additional 40 million dollars to complete the capital construction and repair of the courts. Dear colleagues, a number of issues related to the debate on the basic sectors of the economy have also been raised today. I believe that Parliament has always compromised with the government on these issues. In particular, I propose to remove from the draft budget the relevant provisions relating to issues of concern and to settle them in a separate law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u206	Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich. Les Stepanovich Tanyuk of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Yes, Gennady Josephovich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u207	Les Tanjuk, Committee on Culture, faction of our Ukraine, National Movement of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has seen the budget as a sociocultural budget, as a budget aimed at meeting humanitarian needs and voting, supporting this budget. There are a few small remarks. Well, first of all, I'd really like a resource to be found to eliminate part-time cultural activity, where people get 50, 30, 40 bracelets and work in half. It's got to be financed by local budgets, and I think we should take that into account. Pinzenic is very fond of cutting down organizations. We propose to remove the 1801070 program, "Increase in qualification, retraining and training of teaching staff in culture and the art of the State Academy of Management of Culture and Arts of Minculture." Why? Because a parliamentary request has been made to eliminate this academy as one that does not do the work, the necessary training, and the retraining of personnel, that is the cost of money. These are branch offices all over Ukraine, actually, that's 2.5 million. It's scheduled for the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture supports this request, and I think we can take it seriously today. There is a need to double the funding of the 1801140 program "State and Sectoral Prizes, Fellowships for Outstanding Cultural Achievements" because there is an absolute inadequacy. Well, let's say the Longie's film premium is 5,000, and the Lassie Kurbass prize is 800 bucks. Obviously, it would be a gift to actors and artists for the day. International theater day, if only we could balance that position. And the last. I'd like to leave the first paragraph of paragraph 7.13. 7 Article 7, paragraph 7.13 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income, in its current form, leaving decisions previously taken to support the bookstore because it was said that we did not encourage the release of publications of an advertising and erotic nature, as well as the provision of advertising services. In the new version, this is missed and money can go completely wrong because the proposed sub-paragraph is free of taxation and only the process of production, that is, polygraphing the book. Since the publishing business is a three-pronged complex, it would be important to get rid of taxation and prepare a book for the second to win the authors and publishers, not just polygraphists, and that would ensure balance and development. In principle, we will support and vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u208	Gennady Josephovich Udovenko, Head of the Committee on Human Rights and International Relations
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u209	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Julius Volodymyr, first of all, I would like to point out that the government has done considerable work to prepare the changes to the 2005 state budget and which we believe will greatly contribute to ensuring the constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens. In particular, I would like to point out that the government's proposal for a committee to increase the financing of cultural expenditure with the Ukrainian diaspora for the development and application of Ukrainian. But this is just the beginning. The committee has repeatedly, over several years, raised the issue of keeping a separate chapter in Ukraine’s national budget on human rights. The solution will allow for the coordination of the activities of the various structures of the authorities to ensure the implementation of constitutional and human rights provisions. I want to point out that before the "morning" revolution, there was a massive violation of human rights in Ukraine. I would like to point out that there is no government body in Ukraine that is responsible for this important area of activity, we have the authority of the Supreme Council, and the executive structures of the body that would guarantee human rights and fundamental freedoms are not, Julia Volodymyrna. And we hope that you, given your personal experience, will pay much more attention to ensuring human rights in our country. I would like to point out that the problem of financing newspapers in minority languages remains acute. We insist that this line is finally separated from other assignations. So these people know where the money is going. But I would like to point out that for the first time in recent years, the level of settlement and siege of Crimean Tatars and persons of other nationalities is largely in line with the parameters of the government program. Although, of course, that's not enough. At the same time, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea’s budget also needs to be provided. And to conclude, I want to remind you that this year is going to be a great event in the lives of the Ukrainian people -- the fourth global forum of Ukrainians, but there is no preparation for this important forum by government structures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u210	Ivan Fedorovich Tomic is head of the Agrarian Policy Committee. Prepared, True One.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u211	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honourable Julia Volodymyrovna, Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, reviewed the 2005 budget and clearly supported its social orientation, the proposals made by the National Deputies, members of the Committee, have been taken into account to a large extent, especially with regard to the preservation of the taxation of the agri-industrial complex. At the same time, anxiety arises. On May 11, 2004, we discussed in this room compliance with the requirements of agro-industrial legislation, and so far I have to say that of the 45 bills adopted in this room at this session, much of the bills are not being implemented. Among them are basic bills such as the one about. The law is about State support for agricultural production. Sergey Teryohin was the author. I think he knows very well, this is the stability of price policy in the agrarian market, 1.4. The committee believes that with the balance of June 1, Julia Volodymyrna, we should return, knowing the situation of forecasting with grain production, to the policy that will be pursued by the state on the stability of price policy. The other one. The priority development of the village, article 5, which is constantly ignored, the price of 2.3 billion, is clearly not manufacturing, this is life, dear friends of more than 15 million of our fellow countrymen. The roads, the gas, all the social services, you know exactly what's going on. Third. Reimbursement to the Retirement Fund of 60 million for milkmaids, mechanics. Four. There is a law on farm support in this room. The state support offered by the committee, 195 million, is only $17.5 million or 4 dollars per hectare. I'm convinced that Victor Mikhailovich, Julia Volodymyr, give a signal to this category at least 10 million plus, it's not a problem, it's a matter that can be settled and clearly said that we're going to Europe and we're going to rebuild the agricultural system. And that's the main thing. Dear friends, no matter how much we add to the budget, if we don't change the ideology, what we've added, I'm grateful that 150 million animal support will not be felt to all farmers in Zacarpat or in Zitomir or in Crimea. Ideology of direct support, and the ideologie of direct support is the new strategy of the European Union, which is the indicators of Ukraine 1 to 32, Poland 1 to 62 European Union. Friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u212	Thank you. Please, Sergey, the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Prepare Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u213	Your Honourable colleagues, as a whole, our committee thinks, and I think if the budget for its social purposes is executed at least in 70-85 percent, it's going to be a big victory. And then, from our professional point of view, the increase in the material wealth of large masses of people is their greater access to information, that's greater freedom of speech. It's automatic. Individual comments and suggestions. We insist that there be unconditional exemption from VAT transactions from subscription and delivery of media to the consumer. In addition, we insist that there be no more than the government or from individual ministries of supply to mark the article of the Ninth Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists. It is the cost of delivery, article nine of the Law. We also believe that we need to renew the financing of a program of socially significant publications through the Derteleradio. Now that figure is gone, and the Ministry of Culture has launched a program of 20 million bracelets called the Ukrainian Book. We feel that we should not rely on the honorable Oxana to be responsible for the book of Ukraine. There's a workable mechanism on the Committee of the Derteleradio. We further believe that it is possible to reduce the cost of publicizing the government’s activities in the media and in the individual ministries and departments that are hidden in several pages in very many articles under different formulas. Instead, you can increase the funding of the national television company to cover the debt to RRT for signal distribution and increase the funding of the national radio, which deserves to be done. General offers. I think together we need to review this year's tax on natural persons, it's now 13 percent of all of them, and who lives on 500 bucks, and who lives on 50,000 dollars. [[and Kabmin, and the deputies]] This should be reviewed if we are really going to Europe. A person who earns little or receives little, has to pay 6-7 percent there, where large incomes have to pay at least 30-35 percent, and that's socially fair. I also think that we should, together with the government, introduce a bill, develop a deposit income tax and put it into effect immediately. At least 10 percent of this income should go to execution. I can say that we sincerely wish both the President and the government success in implementing this budget, because if our people who want to trust anyone are disappointed in this President, the moral losses will be irreversible. Hopefully, the government is aware of that. So we wish them success. Thank you very much for our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u214	Thank you. Please, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, State Building Committee. Get ready for Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government! The Committee supports the noble goals envisaged by budget changes, but expresses concern about the guarantees of their achievement, especially with regard to local budgets. It was this concern that triggered the meeting of city heads, a group of municipal assets to meet with the Prime Minister today. I want to thank you, Julia Volodymyr, for having this meeting and demonstrating your willingness to care for the local budgets. For the protocol, I want to state that there was an agreement that the mechanism for the distribution of revenue from the sole tax on entrepreneurial activities would be reviewed. Today, he has come to the local budgets for a hundred percent of the time. And we agreed that it would not be redistributed on January 1st, but at least from April, but perhaps from the second half. The second is that the VAT mechanism will be returned to the cash register for utilities, not to the amount of services provided, as this will destroy the utility. There is also an agreement that the treasury will be obliged, not just to grant him the right to lend in cash. And budget funding will also be restored for 2005 to encourage participants in the all-U.S. project competition and local self-government programmes 12.4 million since it has already been implemented. And we're glad that the deal was that in 2-3 months, the government and the municipal asset will gather to monitor and summarize how the budgets are being implemented. But Julia Volodymyrna and reverend Viktor Mikhailovich, we haven't found the answer to the main problem, is a deficit of about two billion dollars of the local budget, which has to do with higher wages. That's what Ludmila Suprun was talking about, and that's what Catherine Fomenko was talking about. Julia Volodymyrna, if we today want to vote, get an answer as to how we're going to cover this gap, or we're going to have a very serious breakdown of the authority of local self-government. Already 600 million loans have been made by the local budget in the first 2.5 months. What do we propose? Obviously, one and a half billion planned for a single tariff grid could be transferred to these goals. Spend this year and then enter a tariff grid since 2006. Again, give me an answer. And last of all, I think Victor Mikhailovich is allowed some nonsense when the rent for the use of the land of the community is called a public tax. It's a know-how that doesn't know the world. In general, with those comments and suggestions, most members of the committee are willing to support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u216	Thank you. The word is given by Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky of the Committee on Science and Education. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u217	Dear Adam Ivanovich, reverend Julia Volodymyrical, honourable deputies! The Committee on Science and Education supports the budget. First of all. In particular, science and innovation policies are technology parks. We propose to add to the draft amendments to the law on the operation of technology parks an article on targeted subsidisation of technology park projects in formulation that corresponds to the grant agreement and compensation measures in accordance with the GAT-SOT system rules and principles adopted in the European Community legislation on technology parks. The proper wording of the article is added and the draft law is also passed. And as I understand it, all 15 tech parks according to the article of the first one written by the government have to work. Question two: The situation with Phoefania, code 65411. 70. There's already been a lot of talk about the Feofania Garden Park complex, which was initially offered 17 million dollars, and now there's an additional 15 million -- just 32 million dollars in this new project. But the academy didn't ask for it, and we have letters that tell us about other problems. Someone is artificially creating a problem for the National Academy, and I emphasize that the academy has not made such an offer. In view of the fact that the Committee on Education and Science proposes that seven million dollars be left to work at the end of Phoephania, 25 million be allocated to other activities of the National Academy of Sciences, including: 10 million to create an academic electronic communications system with the capacity of a thousand megabits per second, then Ukrainian science is included in the European science and information system, access to participation in scientific projects of the European community; one million in the Institute of Theoretical Physics to modernize communication, four million in the modernization of the nuclear reactor of the Institute of Nuclear Research and seven million in scientific programmes. I want to mark the huge work of the Institute of Condensation Physics in accounting processes inside the fourth power grid of the Chernobyl power station. In this regard, the committee requests that a separate tape be allocated for the costs of these works. Of the funds allocated to the Institute for Nuclear Power Plants by Law 65411. 40, according to this institution, are the corresponding letters. Ladies and gentlemen, the government faces an extremely important problem: to deal with the budget this year. The government needs to be helped, and it needs to be consolidated with the help of the entire MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u218	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. The word is Vadim Gurov, the Committee of Industrial Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u219	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable members of the Government! Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Very conflicting feelings are now fighting in my mind. I'd like to compare the budget to a bright sunny day and a nap at night. The part of the budget that deals with social issues is what our elector wants and expects. The increase in pensions, the minimum wage, increased by 50 per cent the salaries of the budgeters, assistance to orphans, assistance to single mothers and so on. That's all it took to prove. My faction colleagues and I welcome this step of government and, apart from gratitude, nothing can be said. However, there is such an expression, the second part is the income-generating issue. It's a really sleepy night. How can we not remember the folk wisdom from the world to the sixth? On the thread, on the naked, on the shirt." I want to say that the first part is done, the threads are taken, and instead of the shirt, the industrialists get a good kick. Take me correctly, many of the questions I asked and I personally, they're taken into account, it's about rent on iron ore, mining, or other issues. But I have the impression that the authors of the law acted on the principle that if a caravan were to break a small piece, nothing would happen to that caravan, no one would notice that loss. Well, you know, the squad didn't notice the fighter's loss. Thus, there is total war in all articles on the cost of products. But the shrapnel also flies, and it hurts to hurt who first? Workers, labour groups, for which we have in principle forgotten what this is. We've just set the wage increase somewhere between 30 and 40 percent, which our finance deputy prime minister so requested, there's just no other way out, but the issues that are now being raised will not, of course, raise the central salary. We all raised: the minimum wage, the minimum pension, and this constant being fed by the Pension Fund, which is fed by the labour force, was left at the same height. So when I counted all these minimal knocks and put them into a common table, one of the combinations per month went on a 100 million-dollar journey. Grieve. This is a number that presents difficulties and needs to be considered. That's why I want to say one thing. The mining complex is our export, our currency. At the dollar's rate of five grevens, that's another blow to exports.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. I repeat that the time we agreed is over. But since representatives of the three committees have not yet presented themselves, and the representatives of the people are very much asked to speak, let us take another 15 minutes and then be determined. Please, Boris Ilchi Oliynik of the Foreign Affairs Committee, prepare Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u221	Thank you. The great Julius Volodymyr, the noble colleagues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, of course, also has its own claims, which were timely addressed to the Committee on Budgetary Questions. I'm not going to say that unanimously, but still, most of March 23th, we have for the first time supported such a clearly constructed social budget line. An analysis of the costs suggests that the scope of the assignment is far from satisfying the minimum necessary financial security for the diplomatic service. So let's say there's not a reduction in revenue to the special budget fund in the amount of about 14 million dollars -- that's 10% of all consular revenue. And the reason for this is the simplified visa regime with the EU and Switzerland. Then, for the proper functioning of consular offices, it is essential to compensate for these losses from the general budget, at least 10 million dollars. The project removed the 140.18.10 program, which envisaged the construction of the service housing complex in Moscow of 15 million dollars. There is also a need to increase the cost of a program aimed at modernizing the engineering systems of the building, the house itself, built in the 38th year of last century, until it collapsed. The reduction in capital expenditure for the Ministry's central apparatus from the projected 6.5 million dollars to 3.25 essentially stops the planned measures for material and technical security. One word, the Committee makes the following proposals: to take into account, with the budget programme for the function of foreign diplomatic institutions, an additional 10 million, to maintain the budget programme for the construction of the service complex of the Embassy in the Russian Federation, to leave the amount of capital expenditure under the budget programme 140.10.10, which to external relations is 6.5 million, instead of the projected 3.25. Obviously, it's just a little bit of our troubles, but to realize the complexity and tension of today's situation, we're holding back stately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u222	Thank you. Please, Turmanov, Committee of the Fuel and Energy Complex, prepare the raven.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u223	Dear Yulia Vladimirovna, distinguished members of the Cabinet of Ministers, respected colleagues. Today, when considering budgets, many here reaffirm that the social agenda is very serious, and that is indeed the case, and there is no doubt that we are ready to support it. With regard to today's solutions to social problems or implementation programmes, they cannot simply be implemented on their own without the sustainable work of our industry enterprises. Therefore, I would like to elaborate on the draft budget under consideration. With regard to the Mintopenergo, out of 4 billion, 50 per cent is a special fund. What is a special fund? We need to fill it up. And if we are comparing the country budget as a whole today, the special fund is in the overall budget balance of 21 per cent, the Mintopenergo budget is 50 per cent. As far as the coal industry is concerned. I've talked about this before on the budget committee. Julia Vladimirovna, we've met with the faction, I've been raising these questions. Today, under budgetary programmes, especially the two main budget lines, this is a cost-effective article and a capital item. We have not received such a budget in the last year. Once again, I want to remind all my colleagues, coal miners who are not indifferent today and know that what kind of budget they will have today, and how they will receive their wages. But today, in the coal industry, the special fund is 1 billion 418 million bracelets. And here's the last review. Removes from the coal sector article, restructuring article, 327 million of the protected global fund. I don't know who they're giving it to. And they're adding 300 million to us again. How can we continue to work, how can we continue to pay our wages? If today the tariff rate in the coal industry is 140 grevens and it should be 262 by law? We don't balance at all. That's why we said we had to consider the price of coal and energy. Everybody says 204 bracelets. Says the Minister, says the Ministry of Finance, no one will answer today exactly what the price of coal will be. If there's a price on 204, let's count it by volume, and let's see how much we need at our own cost. Maybe we need 500 million. But today the situation has become very difficult. Therefore, I ask you once again in person, Julia Vladimirovna, Cabinet of Ministers, to look again and review these two strategic articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u224	Please give the floor to Yuri Krug, the Committee on Transport and Communications. He'll be right behind him. He's a master.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u225	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected Yulia Vladimirovna, respected colleagues. The Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications has carefully considered changes to the 2005 budget. The budget is certainly of serious real social or social importance to our State. And that was noted by our committee. Unfortunately, however, not all the social problems that have been raised and raised at the meeting of our committee have been taken into account. Of the 23 specific proposals that we have made to the Committee on Budgets, only three have been taken into account by the Cabinet of Ministers. Of course, 23 could be called particularly necessary, the ones we would like to see reflected in the budget today is the first position. We know that the comprehensive programme for the development of Ukraine's Danube region was adopted last year by the Cabinet of Ministers and approved. This integrated programme speaks of the remarkable end that has been affected by the war in Yugoslavia, which has suffered from the five-year embargo of Yugoslavia. And only the Ukrainian Danube couple lost more than 600 million people. As a result of these actions. We have asked that we restore, to some extent, those lost millions of public funds that are essential to the economy of the State. The Danube is a forpost to our Power in Europe. And I think the comments on that are totally unnecessary. We've asked for $16 million. This year, leave the fleet to be built for Ukrainian Danube shipping. This is not just $16 million, it is a continuation of the 16 million that were invested last year in the construction of the fleet. And unfortunately, it was deleted. Today, there are two shells with 13 million shells. $ is already spent at the Kéli Ship Repair Plant rusting because these amounts have been cut off. Or, as far as the waterway is concerned, and the fleet, 350 vessels, passed through this waterway during the year, I would like to see the money allocated to the shipping channel, 10 million dollars. The kind of money that's very small.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u226	Thank you. Yes, 30 national deputies have already spoken. They still have an opportunity from the people, they say, to speak. Please, Vladimir Masterskin. Prepare Alexander Tuckenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u227	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. We are faced with the question: Are there no strategic goals in the country that today could involve cheap international loans? At the same time, the government removes a rule that now, in the current Budget Law, prescribes 2.8 billion dollars of fairly cheap borrowing. I'm pointing out to you that today's budget sector, let alone industrialism, is or is not the first place in the world in terms of energy. There is an urgent need to implement a system of energy conservation through credit support, primarily in the housing and utility sphere. This does not necessarily have to be done through the budget, but the budget can absorb the cost of these loans. When you raise your pension and your salary, you need to see where it goes to the peasants, especially where there is no gas. For wood and coal? There is a need to invest in the construction of gas pipelines and sewerages. And it's going to be a much bigger cost economy than another wage increase, and really, social support in the countryside. Let's talk about the problem of government borrowing. Today in Kiev there are more than 24 project groups that today have an average salary of over $1,000, and these are budget costs. We insist that we return article 105, which obliges the government to create a single office for the implementation of such projects rather than to embezzle the budget. Few, however, are the government’s proposals today that there be no restrictions on the granting of loans. We insist that this rule be preserved and that we understand how much government can issue guarantees this year. Now I would like to draw your attention to Appendix 9, which is very interesting. Nobody's paying attention to him, last page of the State Budget. You'll see that oil condensate today pays 10 dollars to the budget for every ton, then the marginal ore is just 2 bracelets. And so on. That's a very interesting addition. We insist that the government develop this supplement and that we really do not do the embezzlement of these funds. Our faction insists that article 11, paragraph 9, and article 11, should be left in the preceding line. and article 11, paragraph 2, prime. 2, and delete the amendments to article 1074 of the Civil Code and the Law on the VAT of Ukraine, article 4, paragraph 4.1, concerning normal prices. This arrangement was discussed by the Minister of Finance, and I would ask you to do it. And finally, what I'd like to say is that today, the standard established by the Cabinet of Ministers is that it's only after.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u228	Thank you. Well, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u229	So this rule requires that only a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers can determine an oil-trafficking plant that will handle oil processing. We just talked to Victor Mikhailovich -- he said it was a mistake, and so please correct it to leave it in its proper form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u230	Please, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u231	Dear colleagues. I think the government is tired today, and we're with you. But I would like to point out that we are looking at the budget: the balance between economic and social development of the state, not social, but economics first, and social. We've got it all backwards. We have 48 million people. We have 48 million people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u232	Alexander Mikolaiovich, on the microphone, because you're not heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u233	Forty-eight million inhabitants, 34 million ore land. Dear friends, the gross domestic product of the APC last year is 73 billion. The budget provides 0.5 per cent for financing the development of the APC. What nation may not love its people -- 48 million -- to be bullied like that?Oh, my God! Is it possible that Julia Volodymyrna, you're the young Prime Minister, these comrades who are sitting before you, they've already been in the Cabinet of Ministers, - well, you can't, dear friends! Ninety - five percent of the material base. How can we sow and plow and decide the food security of the state? I have no idea. I was an eight - year - old minister, but I knew that to get 50 million bread, four million tons of meat, 24 million tons of milk to feed people, and 5.5 million tons of sugar. I knew it would cost 26 billion people. Today, 175 rubles per hectare of 34 million are placed at a minimum of 2.5 thousand. Let's take the second question. For mineral fertilizers -- 0 for plant protection -- 0 for agricultural technology -- 0.7 million. Combinone stands at 750 thousand, the tractor stands at 160,000. What are we doing, Julia Volodymyrna? Today, about two and a half thousand pounds [2.6 thousand kg] of food for a healthy person is in balance. There's the physiological degradation of the nation. That's why I'm a respected friend. I think if we're based on social development and we're very manipulative about pensions today, wages are the right thing to do. But to a rural worker, it will have no effect on him. Just like there were 190 bucks, that's what it's going to be. There are no people who will receive this money from the State Budget. They need hard work. So, I think today, of course, this is going to be a political decision. I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u234	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u235	I think today the Cabinet of Ministers is subordinating the Supreme Council. It's unacceptable. This has not been the case in history for the Cabinet of Ministers to impose on the Supreme Council a higher legislative body. That's why our right to vote! But, dear friends, we need to understand one thing, if there's no production or industry or the APC, but there are three main priorities: food security, energy and science. If this is not ensured, no government will work for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u236	Dear colleagues! We finished the discussion. Before we ask for the final word of the government, we may need to do so first. Right now? We need to identify ourselves first with those draft regulations so that we can understand for ourselves how we're going to vote. A number of decrees have been made concerning the voting procedure. I'm just giving those who insist on the authors of the projects an opportunity to reason, and then we're voting. The first was the draft decree of the national deputy Gorbachev 7221-P. Three minutes to settle, please. 16.52:01
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, we've all heard all the budget deficits here, and in general, I think the most important budget deficit here is the economic part. We listened to a representative of the Committee on Banks and Finance and Homutinnik, and he spoke about the Tax Law, which clearly stated that tax rules could not be in the budget. We listened to the chairman of the Committee, Matvienko, who made it clear that there could not be a regulatory norm in the budget. My ruling suggests that the budget should be voted on in the first reading today, but that the second reading should separate the tax rule from the budget by a separate law, in which we can all make amendments in committees, in a comparative table, take them into account, or not take them into account, as we will decide in the committees. I believe that, so far, it is legal to separate these two issues correctly: the budget itself and the tax rules. I believe that if we now vote in general, as the Cabinet of Ministers wants, then we have no sense to work here, and then we can meet once a half a year and on the amendments that Terechin and Pinzenik will make again, we will vote in two days and two nights for once again. It will be the same on 15 and 16 September, and we will be asked to vote again in favour of the same tax rules and again in the budget. I think why would we need our constituency at all. I think we're all 450 members of different factions, but one faction of Timoshenko. I believe that we must take a political approach to this. We are with you policies of different directions, different factions and different visions of different economic directions, and with the choice of economic zones, we need to look around, simplified where, we know, we have resumed unplanned checks, resumed 300,000 VAT. We have to deal with the APC, very many different issues, so I suggest we adopt now on first reading and, as I said, divide into two parts, two amended laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u238	Yes. Dear colleagues, the grounding of the draft decision is, we postpone it, then we'll determine. Then we have draft decree 7221-p1, author of Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovic. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. Next. 7221-p2, Sergey Slatenko, insist? No, it's not. So we're subtracting these decisions. Next comes ruling 7221/p1, by Korsakov and Slavuta. Are you insisting on your decision? One minute, are you insisting, or not? No, it's not. This order is being revoked. Next, draft decision 7221/p2, by Taras Cranvill, you insist on three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u239	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, by my decree, I offer three points. The first item is the sending out of the bill, which is now being introduced for further work and two other points. which were actually presented by counterpart Gorbachev is the consideration of two separate bills: a budget bill, a budget change in the Committee on Budgets and an amendment to tax legislation in the Committee on Finance and Banking. Because the consideration of these laws that go through a completely different committee. In the Committee on Budgets, within one law, it seems at least not logical and invalid. There are many claims before the Law. And despite the fact that he was very beautifully represented here by the Minister of Finance, we have very serious concerns that the bill, the budget is not balanced, that these wage-raising standards will not be met, especially in the area of local self-government payments, because we do not see a real increase, except for the 0.8 billion that have been presented, other ways of increasing local budgets. We see a real problem of possible economic destruction, and sometimes I feel that some of the members of the government have liked those children who are still convinced that milk and meat are grown directly in the grocery stores, and oranges grow right there on the shelves. And that social needs can somehow be provided in such superficial ways. And those laws that change in terms of liquidation and free economic zones and other directions actually not only remove what needs to be removed, abuse but primarily destroy the colossal sector of the economy, particularly the export economy. And that is why I insist that it be the law on amending the State budget as a separate bill that is once again considered on the budget committee and made substantial changes. As for the second block of laws, they have to go through two stages. The first stage is very serious, filtering out all those laws that do not directly affect the implementation of the State Budget. Because it has already been mentioned here, and the government swears to do it, but. I don't know what they didn't do. Let's say these repressive changes in the Civil Code, repressive changes that make it possible in any way beyond the planning of testing without any trial there, motivated by the decision of the Cabinet and by a similar or tax authority. Conduct checks in the Tax Administration Act. These things don't directly apply to budget filling. So, after singled out only those items that clearly fill the budget, work them separately and bring them together by law, as we did in 2003, the so - called little tax code, as we then called it. Only in this case can we get an adequate budget that can be implemented. Otherwise, these will be great promises that could end in a collapse in the economy and the destruction of the social sphere at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u240	So, honourable colleagues, we have heard proposals for draft regulations on the procedure for voting. But before we go to the vote for determining the procedure for making decisions, we need to get the final word. For the final word, let's do this, your honorary colleagues, the minister of finance, after that from the budget committee of Ludmila Pavelna Suprun, then we'll ask the Prime Minister, and then if you don't have any arguments, we'll go to the vote on these draft decisions on the decision-making procedure. Please, Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich, how much time do you ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u241	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we will go through all the suggestions that have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u242	All I'm asking is, my dear fellows, to listen carefully, because the finance minister will say that the government has supported the proposals that were made during the talks and whatnot, so that there will be no repetition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u243	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished Julius Volodymyrna, distinguished national MPs. First of all, I want to thank you for the conversation that we have had, for the suggestions that were made during the previous discussion of the government budget project, on the Budget Committee, on other committees, for the constructive positions that have sounded here. Many are right and need to be included in the text of the law. Let me just say some things they were already included in the draft law, but they sounded like proposals here, so we're going to mark the things that were taken into account that would need to be taken into account. First of all, with regard to the rules of the Civil Code regarding administrative arrest. The government agrees to remove the problem and delay the consideration of the problem in the future. The second question. Norm for out-of-plan tests. We talked about her that we need her for the indirect tax administration regime when it comes to VAT compensation. So we agree with the revision of this rule that will apply to excise and VAT compensation in another edition. Next. Several times, we stress once again that the government's project has an existing tax system for the village, VAT for the village is zero. Next. The government's draft law preserves the existing tax regime for VAT on drugs. The same applies to subscription and bookkeeping. As far as the disabled are concerned. We emphasize that there is an existing order with a precision of between 10 percent and 8 percent. Up to eight. As far as I'm concerned. The government supported the proposals on income taxation, the maintenance of the existing income tax rule on Kyivmishkbud. There was a question in the hall regarding the repair of zero - rate vessels. As it's written in the draft budget, draft legislation, the place where the service is provided refers to this regime -- zero rate. Next. The government agreed with the proposal to allocate a line — the Writer’s Association — as part of the chief budget manager. Next. With regard to the limitation of gross costs under the SDS mode. The government in the project did not foresee this restriction. In other words, the position expressed by the deputies was reflected in the government's draft law. As far as donor raw material is concerned. The mode that we've discussed is the mode that works today with the oval promissory note. As far as inheritance is concerned. The rules of the current law on taxation of apartments are suspended and so on and so on, we will continue to consider and consider changes. By 2006, this rule had been halted. Next. Tobacco products. It is already included in the draft budget for wholesale trade at a rate of 125 grand. That's twice as low. The local self-governance proposal was taken into account, and it sounded here about the split of a single tax so that it would be introduced on April 1st. There was a proposal for customs tariffs -- the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to cancel or change rates of duty. We inform you that there is no such norm in this draft Law. So we didn't ask for such a right as to set customs tariffs. The government supports the proposal for the construction of gas pipelines, and we have a figure of one and a half percent for this purpose. So this is a proposal to increase this figure to about two percent with some direction, so our estimates show, 420 million. The amount of money coming is compared to the number that sounded here, 279. And in order to channel these costs to solve the problems of the village's gasification. By shipbuilding. A proposal for an import duty is taken into account for the conversion of contracts. This rule has been discussed in our budget committee, and we agree with its restoration. With regard to the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, we have long accepted this rule, and it is not in the draft law. As far as I'm concerned. We'll get to the cars. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 5 / 15 19, we agree with the clarification. There's an editorial that needs to be added to some other positions. Delivery of travel to sanatorium treatment for persons under the age of 18. The government agrees with the recovery of court funding with the corresponding adjustments under the budget section. Changes in budget funding. The government agrees to restore the volume of the TB and oncology programme with the corresponding adjustments under the Budget Funding section. With regard to the amendment made by Catherine Samoylik, who spoke to other MPs about land payments, we would like to point out that the project in question did not provide for the cancellation of benefits related to the base of rest, the pioneer goods, and so on. But. Sorry, I remember everything. But we suggest that clarification be made about the owners. That is to say, this standard is maintained with regard to land payments, with a clear reference to landowners, if they are on balance. As for youth housing, we want to emphasize that we are not shrinking, but increasing, because if you look at the cost. For housing construction we allocate 55.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u244	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u245	We're spending 55 million on mortgages, which means we're giving a chance to borrow 550 million dollars in housing. But in order to avoid speculation about this issue, the government agrees with the refund of 19.8 million dollars, or 20 million dollars, which Catherine Samolik spoke of, with the corresponding revision of the chapter "Financing the Budget." The government agrees with the proposal made by Ivan Fedorovich Tomic: on farming - and the corresponding correction of the section of the financing regime. We've already taken into account in this budget project the situation -- it's what Sergey Pravdenko was talking about -- the bookmaking program, it's translated from Minculture to Derteradio, the main manager will be Derteradio. The government accepted the offer to correct the supply of excise duty for beer from 30 percent to 15 percent increase. And there's another problem. The government agrees with the sounding of an editorial bill, since misunderstandings have arisen from editorial regulations, excise duty rates, and import duties on certain goods, produced by Vladimir Masterskin. The government supports the proposal that has been made by the Government, by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for a month to ensure that special measures are applied in accordance with the laws of special measures, or by compensatory measures for imports into Ukraine of goods under UCTZ codes 8702, 8703 and 8704. And the final offer. Suggestions were made regarding car fares: 20 percent. The government is willing to support this offer: 20 percent of car fare. Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u246	The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna. One moment, dear fellows! And then we're going to say, well, let's say, we're going to write it down. One minute, with a motive, we'll say another. Ludmila Pavlovna's wife, please. Please, Sophia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u247	I would like to point out that almost a large part of the comments that were made in the hall found support from the government. I want to sound for the stenographer and the next. First. Taking into account the very tight drafting of the bill in preparation by the Supreme Council's Office for this legislative act for the signing of the Supreme Council and the President, it is necessary to introduce technical legal and editorial regulations into the text of the law on the basis of a transcript that has now been written down. During our review of the Budget Act, we didn't take into account the committee's proposals for a reduction in capital expenditure under code 2804070 by 14 million at the start of the construction of factories. Divorce. However, since these expenses are not supported, documentation is not available, the government has also agreed to withdraw these expenses and redistribute them into other codes. According to code 2804030, for the application of the fisheries industry, for the liquidation of the 983,000 dollar debt to the South Research Institute of the Marine Fisheries, and we also propose that a 5 million-dollar portion of this amount be set aside to address the problem that Deputy Kalinczuk has presented to the Tairov Institute. Another part of the sum is transferred to the Danube Black Sea Canal. The government has also agreed to recover expenses for State support for the construction of vessels for Ukrainian Danube steaming on. To the shipbuilding plant and to complete the construction of high-voltage transport refractors. In line with the project that had already existed. And we're also suggesting that we recover the capital costs. First. According to the Supreme Council's apparatus, 10 million dollars per. Capital expenditure on housing. And we're also proposing, and we've had this conversation, and we've had this conversation, and we've been able to get the capital costs back on the court system, because you know that we've limited them and provided one tenth of the security. 1 percent of the needs of the judicial system today. And also for the execution of justice by the Court of Appeal of Ukraine and the Court of Appeal to add an additional 10 million dollars. In addition, we want to point out that in this budget law the status of the chief directors of the sectoral academics has actually been abolished, so, Sir Victor Mikhailovich, we propose that this status be restored to the chief supervisors. And we propose to support Yukhnowsky's proposal for an increase in the costs of the Academy of Sciences without any reduction in the expenditure under code 654170. And also to remind you that we agreed to delete chapter 23 for changes to the Civil Code. This section should therefore be excluded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u248	Thank you, sit down, please. Julius Volodymyr, please. Dear colleagues, I would ask you to consider those proposals that will be considered further, and then for reasons of vote, to express your views. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u249	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank everyone, without exception, the faction leaders, the members of the budget committee, the factions, who were two years old, practically not taking breaks for sleep or food, working with the budget committee on a wonderful bill. And I can tell you that from this point on, as a budget submitted to the Supreme Council, he has undergone significant changes that have certainly improved it. And so you can't say it's a government budget. This is our common budget: the Supreme Council and the government. And I thank you for that. This budget envisions things that, for example, all the left-wing parties, we've been dreaming about for many years as Fatherland. Pensions increase by 32 percent, 57 percent in the budget area. We're putting an end to all the payouts in the country. 83 percent of pensioners received the same pension, not including the average wage. Today we're putting an end to all of this together. You and I have worked very hard on programs that have to do with increasing the value of skilled work. And we have a three- and 35-fold gap between skilled and unskilled work in the budget area, but it doesn't mean that somehow wages are falling. Elevated all without exception. You and I went to a minimum pension of 332 bracelets and a minimum wage of 332 bracelets. And there's no doubt that this is going to be a breakthrough for every person in Ukraine, because it's going to affect the wages, not just in the budget area, but in every enterprise. And that means that we're at the expense of people having the purchasing power to support everyone without excluding the sector of our production, because of the wages. the pension and the ability of people to buy what our production does. I'm sure of it. That none of you can get past the fact that all children with disabilities, child orphans will get 4.5 times as much money as she was before today. We will no longer have families where there is no father or mother so that the children are completely unfunded. Such single - parent families will receive money. 8.5,000 dollars at birth, starting on January 1. Is this not a social program? And I want you to know that our pensions have been elevated, our pensioners have been granted since January 1st. Officials, members of the military service, have three times the amount of money available. Pensioners in the military will receive higher pensions. I want to ask you, who's against it? Now let's see: how did the government manage to do that? Yes, it's very simple to share with those people who need your help. Not all of us today have experienced a slight decline in our profits, but only those who were Kuchma have been individually isolated, isolated, and who were virtually excluded from real competition. And so if we're talking about a little bit more taxes on ore, that's how respectable friends are, we had low prices for the implementation of ore, because we closed the last chain on metallurgy. And they practically destroyed all the pricing. If it is necessary for those who cook beer today to share with pensioners, let us all have a conscience together. If you want the Autozaz, which you got from the budget of $2 billion in net 600 million divided, have a simple conscience. And so I want us to finally learn to share with our society. It's not just that we have MPs and it protects our privileges, but let's just submerge the fat a little bit and give people a little bit of food. And then we'll look our voters in the eye. And when it comes to cleaning up benefits and preferences, let's be honest that the actual owners of mining companies are sitting in Parliament. The actual majority of the actual owners of the metal-market complexes in Parliament, the car building -- the actual owners in Parliament. So let's not just work for ourselves, but finally work for society. And so, resources are taken practically from Parliament, my dear. So another principle worked. Today, brewers sit both in factions of power and in factions of opposition. Automobile manufacturers sit both in factions of power and in factions of opposition. Of all of them, everything that made it difficult to live and to develop normally competitively in our society was taken away equally. And now I just want to see who votes against it, and I want to take a look. Dear friends, if we have called, if you and I have called for a level playing field for everyone, then the government will start doing it and support the government. Separately by local self-government. We have an additional 4.8 billion in local self-government compared to the previous budget, 4.8 billion. And only 3.7 billion is an extra salary. Everything else is about correcting the deficit that was set in the budget that had been voted on before. I want to ask you what we did wrong for local government. And in addition, the gasification we're dreaming about for the village is going to get a lot more money because we're sending two percent of the total cost of the gas we've implemented to the gasification of the villages. And that's more than budgeted. Now let's talk about the agrarian complex. We've moved from direct lending to interest on loans. And they agreed with all the commercial banks that they would be loaning crops for the first time. What's wrong with that? When we're many, we've increased the cost of the money that can be added to the agrarian complex several times. But not from the budget, but from all possible sources, by costing interest. Dear friends, I know that some opposition parties today cannot support this budget because it will show that we had colossal resources in Ukraine that were not involved in the budget. I'll tell you that compared to 2004, the budget revenue will be 54 percent more if we take this budget with you. Think about that figure. This means that the government cleared all the shadowy financial circuits that had been in Ukraine for nearly a month and a half. We're still working on it. But we haven't made it in a month and a half. And that's why I want to tell the MPs who today are in opposition that they don't want to accept this budget because they're going to see the ability of the government and parliament together to give people extra money to live. And there's also a separate information that we all need to know that the inflation that we're dealing with right now, and what is the result of the extremely high printing of empty money at the end of the year, we're going to deal with it. And we're going to have inflation by nine percent a year. This means that if we increase pensions by 32 and inflation by nine if wages by 57 percent and inflation by nine, that means that our citizens will have real income. And what is being done today in markets with the value of goods is the result of an unsanctioned, practically uncontrollable printing, an issue of empty money. And it's very difficult to deal with. These are the results that we have received. And in general, we have a very difficult consequence of everything we had in the last 12 years of government. And the budget is just the first step. And I want you and I to come back in two or three months to assess the resources for the income part of the budget that the government will find in two or three months, because we're not going to stop for one day. And that means that we can give more to local self - government, both to the village, and to the pensioners, but do not ruin our first steps. And by the way, local self-government, and I've been dating the mayors today, we're doing all their requests, including 12 million. for their competition for the best projects to restore local self-governance and much more. Dear friends, in 10 minutes, I can't count all the positives of this budget, it's just impossible, but everyone will feel that life has gotten easier, without doubt, except for tens of two enterprises that had unwarranted benefits. And I know that the next time we get together, we all thank each other for taking such a courageous step with you -- finally closing the shadow sphere in Ukraine. And don't pay attention to the screams of individual owners of businesses who lost colossal benefits, which were totally groundless, but notice that there are already half-cleared pensioners coming to your meeting, that people in our country are going totally hungry and half-dressed, and don't notice that we have excises there that have a little bit of a kick in the way of the alcohol industry. So let's be in this room today not by entrepreneurs, not by politicians, but by government men and by state people -- that's the only request. And let's demonstrate to society when we need to work for a human being, we're a team with you. And I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u250	Yes, dear fellows! One minute, with a motive, please sign in for five minutes. For five minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u251	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u252	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u253	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", the faction of Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear colleagues, I think we can tell the entire Ukrainian people today that we have finally started to implement the Ukrainian President's programme, with which the orange revolution has been won and with which the government of Yulia Timoshenko has come. So I think we have to do everything we can to have the budget today. I think that the minor problems that remain to be discussed can be solved through further negotiations and further changes to the various laws necessary for this socially oriented, truly human-centred budget. I urge everyone to vote for this budget
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u254	Yeah, right now. Alexei Babourin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'm on the list, yes, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u255	The city of Zaporozhye. Dear Julia Vladimirovna, I think it's a sin for you to take offense to the Supreme Council: we're sitting here the second day, and not just "steps," but we're folding in front of you. Okay, I'm reading. Page 144 of this document: "Automobiles are light and other motor vehicles, 34.5 per cent of the import duty rate," and 20 per cent, as Odessa says, "it's on a truck." So I would like the Minister of Finance here, standing on the rostrum, to talk about what we've written down in the budget, what we're discussing now, what we're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u256	Matthews, instead of Boyka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u257	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Yulia Vladimirovna, distinguished gentlemen of the Government! I would like to focus on this: VAT. We have spoken to you on this subject - and we have received prior agreement - that paragraph 7.7.5 is washing the working capital for the producer, and we therefore propose: Let us kill this part of the law from the body and consider separately a separate VAT law. That's the first one. As far as income tax is concerned. 95 per cent is the export of the core funds. Ladies and gentlemen, don't we understand that the 10 per cent that you even offer under a complicated scheme, the depreciation, we'll never allow a major repair system! We're just going to destroy the foundation! Proposal: Leave at least the way it was: 10 per cent on the base -- and everything -- and we will solve all these two problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u258	Kafarsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u259	Julia Volodymyrna, we are pleased that those proposals and comments are taken into account by the faction of the People's Party. But in general, I would like to ask you that where farm funding goes, rural green tourism, including the holding of the second congress to be held in Ukraine, will open up loans for rural tourism in Ukraine. And one more thing, please. Consider that in Western Ukraine a museum of wooden churches and sacral art has been created, and continue to finance it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u260	Please, Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u261	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Valentina Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u262	Valentina Seminouk, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u263	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! Dear government! Dear radio listeners! The Socialist Party faction will support this bill based on the main factors. Backing President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk's candidacy, the Socialist Party spoke about the social guarantees that we will be doing together, raising salaries for government workers, for teachers, raising salaries for those who need them today, raising pensions, raising salaries for military personnel, for all the areas that require these payments today. That's the first one. The other one. We have certainly taken into account all our requirements, and for this we have not only worked these two days.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u264	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko's block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u265	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Valentin Zubov, Batkivščina faction of the Julia Timoshenko bloc. Dear colleagues, after a brilliant speech by Julia Vladimirovna, it is unlikely that there is any point in further speaking. It is indeed one of the brightest social budgets of the past 13 years. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have a concrete proposal. Given that this budget awaits tens of millions of our people, I ask that the results of today's vote be published in the Voice of Ukraine tomorrow, and let the entire people of Ukraine know their true characters in coffeehouses -- those who today dare not vote, support the disadvantaged and today play the budget issue for their narrow, beneficial purposes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u266	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u267	Thank you. Well, I won't be commenting anymore. The only thing I'm trying to say is that we have another weird budget adoption procedure now that you can just throw it out of the rostrum, add it. Well, that's just great. And the balance doesn't change. But I want to say, Julia Volodymyrically, about article 58. Julius Volodymyrically is an article on the honor of your Cabinet of Ministers and you can restore it as it was voted by the Committee on Budget Affairs. Otherwise, you know, it's just going to be inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u268	We'll get her back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I just wish that we were here in the Supreme Council as allies of parliament and government. For there to be no blackmail, with which just a colleague who doesn't vote is an enemy. Let's not do that. It looks like a small blackmail. That's the first one. Second, respectable colleagues. Let's stop showing who loves the Ukrainian people more. And the third. Dear colleagues, let's say that social pay is in the budget -- those are the decisions, in most cases, that we voted for with you. This indicates that the new government is taking steps to implement the decisions made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And let's not have a pyar, because that's our common result, and I'm sure it'll be a positive one, and that's our shared responsibility. If we do that, I think we're going to have a productive job and it's going to be felt by all citizens. And let's finally get out of this, not compete. Now, dear colleagues, we need to determine the procedure for making decisions. The proposals were about draft regulations. The first proposal was based on document 7221-P by the national deputy Gorbachev. Dear colleagues, we've just finished with motive. For reasons of what? May I have your attention, Your Honor? For us, the main thing is not 15 minutes ahead and back, but the main thing is to get a successful vote. So now we're going to vote on the decision-making procedure. For reasons, please write down three minutes, please. Yes. Sabashuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. You don't? Valentina Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u270	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u271	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u272	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I think that the last statement shows that very much of the unagreed positions are yet to be agreed on and that it is necessary for us to consider and leave a few days for second reading today, in order to bring them all into line with the previous budget when we speak of one, and then we have the Chairman of the Budget Committee forging the State budget. That's a first. Secondly, respectable voters, do not give in to illusions, please, because the conversations that have been held today about the prospects: who will share with whom? There's only one thing I can say: You'll get into your pocket, no one will share with you. And the prices will not go down and the price will inevitably go up now, I can say after the last statements that prices will necessarily go up because they will take away what is said to have been allocated through the state budget. Therefore, the Communist faction reiterates once again: we will support all social programs when they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u273	Gennady Samofal Faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u274	Please pass the word to Taras Cnerwell. Taras Chernobyl, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like them first, as far as the procedure is concerned. Those who today claim that, right now, literally to vote in general, have presented a rule of law that allows for voting on those paragraphs. I'm here to support Matthew, on the point that another forgery might take place. He said that, he did not say that, and some things would flow, or new ones would appear. And the second moment, it was a very emotional, very nice speech by Julia Volodymyrna, I'm impressed with it, but why do I have to believe in a government statement that didn't even agree now to do that budget that gave less benefits, less guarantees, less opportunities in the social sphere, but it's real and they don't do it, and there are promises of cloudy mountains here. Perhaps this is followed by many other problems and lobbying things that are extended by this law. So I ask you to follow the procedure as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u276	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u277	Please pass the word to Saints.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u278	Dmitry Saints, please, Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u279	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to report that, on our side of the group, there's a proposal for government, the government has agreed to reduce customs tariffs to be set up for the production of light, commercial and bus freight cars and buses to 5 percent, with corresponding changes to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u280	Mikola Nightshenko's last, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u281	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Nightshade Mikola Petrovich. I want to hear what happened today in Julius Volodymyr and Viktor Mikhailovich, but with specific suggestions. The formation of a collection for gasification of the population points, when we recorded, we changed the concept of "gas value" to "gas tariff". And this has had a significant impact on the cost of the allowance. So I'm proposing in article 46, "half" to replace the number by "two", and by code 3501320, the figure is 279 million. Your words, Victor Mikhailovich, are replaced by 420. This will be specific and beneficial for all the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u282	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In his speech, Taras Cnerwell spoke on the procedure for making decisions. We are now voting for the proposals that are in the form of draft decisions on the decision-making procedure. The first was the proposal of the national deputy Gorbachev under number 7221-P. This is a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the procedure for considering and adopting a decision on the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine and some other legislative acts. I'm voting on this motion for a ruling. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u283	The government does not support this. [[17:38:29]] For-119 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0, Communists - 56, Ukrainian regions - 49, National Party - 1, SPI - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, UNODC - 1, Only Ukraine - 0, SDPU - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 4, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 3, Deminiciative - 0, Union - 0, NDP-Republic - 2, Postfraction - 3. Dear colleagues, the second registered draft of the ruling, the author of the national MP Yuri Borisovich Klukkowski. Number 7221-p1. It coincides with the project proposed by the Budget Committee and the government. And the subject of the legislative initiative in this case is national MPs. It's made up of two parts. The first part is the rules of procedure. This question is actually already falling away. And there's this point, the second point. I'm reading it. After the discussion, a vote on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2005 and some other legislative acts in the first reading and as a whole as a law. I'm betting on voting on the procedure that I'm making up, my esteemed colleagues. I'm voting on this proposal. Registration number 7221-p1. I'm reading item two again. The decision - making process. At the conclusion of the discussion, vote on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2005 and some other legislative acts, number 7221, in the first reading and as a whole, as a law. It's for adoption now. a draft decision as a procedural decision, i.e. ad-hoc. Please vote. [[17:40:55]] For 308. Dear colleagues, this is not a decision yet. May I have your attention, please? [[Applause]] It was we who took the decision-making procedure. Now, essentially, the vote is now on. Now, I'll tell you, fellow honourable Members, it's the vote and the motion of procedure that we've just adopted, the adoption of the first reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Ukrainian Act. Please reverse the vote. Write your motives, please. For reasons of three minutes, please. On the board, please, Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u284	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the Honourable Head! I think today has been a very fruitful day: we've seen the social orientation of the Parliamentary Hall, we've come to meet people, doing the President's program that our government has proposed. In view of that, I do not think we have the right to delay making decisions any longer, because this decision, this budget, this vote, the Ukrainian people have been waiting for a long 13 years. Please pass the next 30 seconds to Paul Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u285	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u286	I passed it on to Katchura for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u287	Please remove the word. Please, Catchure, there's 30 seconds left. Please. Turn the timer back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u288	Dear Julia Volodymyr, I literally want to use these 30 seconds. There are 45 articles that we haven't talked about, but this is a very important article for local self-government, because it predicts additional costs for roads of utility. The only thing I'm asking is that I put this proposal on the budget committee, and it's written here in a slightly changed edition. It sounds like a reconstruction and construction of the roads of utility -- and a dot. That's how we voted on the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u289	Thank you. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u290	Fucking Communist faction. We once again claim, a faction of Communists, that we support all of the government's social proposals. But on the other hand, we insist that the first-reading and second-reading procedure be sustained in order to make it possible to make all the remarks that have been made today, both in a voice and in writing. We say once again, and just so our voters know that the author of this bill, Pinzenik, who has done a lot for our economy is bad, and I think we need to take this into account for our voters. Once again, I insist, a faction of Communists requires that the first reading procedure, budget additions and revisions, and then vote in general, be sustained.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u291	Victor Turmanov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u292	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass on the word to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u293	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u294	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government! Indeed, the question that was voted on by ed hoc has deprived us of the ability to support the budget, to vote for it in the first reading. I welcome everyone with no five minutes of approved budget, but I also want to stress that this is both for the electorate and for all of us it is clear that this vote was created today in Parliament by a parliamentary majority, a government presidential majority, and it should be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u295	Master Vladimir Jakovic, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u296	The People's Party faction supports this bill with the only exception we would like, we insist that Viktor Mikhailovich say his vision on "normal prices." As I spoke from the rostrum, I announced that the VAT law in article 4, paragraph 4.1 on "normal prices", should be removed and left in good order. I'd like Victor Mikhailovich to say that. And I'm handing over the rest of the time to Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u297	Suprun microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u298	Dear colleagues! I want everyone's attention. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, Parliament has completely revised the entire bill in four days to form a political will so that it can work for the interests of society. But I can say that this document today is the result of joint activity and the legislative authority and the MPs and the parliament. I'm not going to analyze what's been given before, I just want to draw your attention to this: I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u299	Thank you. Well, 10 seconds, please. What, from the committee? Microphone, please, Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u300	I propose to support this bill now, because we've taken practically everything into account. The only thing I want to make a note of is leave the 56th in the current State Budget Act. And all the suggestions that we've made to Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik now confirm that we accept them, because the nod in the head directly, sorry, in the document that we're going to have as a result of our vote, is not registered there. That's why we only need his word "yes."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u301	Victor Mikhailovich, before voting on the question, please, about cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u302	We agree with position 20 and 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u303	Well, it's okay, isn't it? Once again, please, Victor Mikhailovich, come on, clearly!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u304	As always wise, we agree with Ludmila Paul’s suggestion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u305	What about the cars? They want to clarify again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u306	By car: 20 and 5, as proposed by our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u307	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, everyone! That's enough! But he just said he's okay with it, it's just been said: 20 and 5. The finance minister said he agreed to write down 20 and 5, right? Well, we'll count it! It's going into the transcript, we'll take it into account! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u308	Well, Victor Mikhailovich, once again, please tell us what the government agrees with. Listen, please. Please, please, listen!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u309	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! There was a proposal not from one faction, from the committee on the reduction of the car duty rate to 20 and the set-up of 5. The government agrees with that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u310	Well! No, all right, dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues! No! No! Well, then, you have to convince me! What are you trying to convince me of?Oh, my God! I want to say again, the finance minister said that they agreed to apply for this document and write down 20 and 5. So what does he do if the government doesn't agree? What do you suggest? Yes, calm down, please. Sit down! Sophia Pavlovna, for that matter, please. Don't shout, dear fellows. Please, for that matter. It's about cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u311	Dear colleagues, all the suggestions that have been made and found the support of the Ministry of Finance will be taken into account on the basis of the transcripts, and that will be enough for us to decide and sign the document on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Please sit down. I would like to stress once again, fellow honourable Members, that we have made a decision ed hoc to now vote in the first reading, and generally as a law. So this is the decision of the Supreme Council. Since we have taken a decision of 308 votes, I put to the vote for adoption in the first reading and in general, as the Law, with proposals that Victor Pinzenik and Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna have made for adoption in the first reading and in general, as the Law, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2005 and some other legislative acts. Registration number 7221. Please vote. [[17:52:05]] For 376 Changes to the 2005 budget are accepted by factions, please. May I have your attention, Your Honor? "Our Ukraine" is 84. Communists are 56. The regions of Ukraine are 3. People's Party is 30. S.O.P.R. - 28. Block Timoshenko - 23. It's a--it's a--it's The only Ukraine is 22. SDPU(o) - 21. Dem. Ukraine is 19. Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 5. Democratic Initiatives - 14. Union -13. NDP, Republic - 11. The postfraction is 26. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The next week, work in the districts. We'll start the plenary session on April 5th. Let's keep working in plenary on April 5th. Thanks for the job.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-25-m0.u313	Dear National Deputies! The government thanks you for your support! We're one team!
