ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:08]] They registered in the 417 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Timoshenko Viktor Anatoliyovich from the MP's "Region of Ukraine" and the membership of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary mode on April 7, 2005. You know that for reasons known or reasons known, we have considered only nine issues of order, or 15 draft regulations. As a result of the review, 15 decrees were adopted and information was received from the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, and the Human Rights Council of Ukraine on the circumstances of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Boris Koleznikov. Dear colleagues, yesterday we held secret ballots from the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. On the outcome of the vote, I ask that you inform Mishur Valery Dmitrovich, head of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce to you the contents of protocol number two meetings of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since April 7, 2005. The summary of the secret ballot on the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine was heard. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine included the candidatures of Bordinjak Vasil Ivanovich, Sparrow Peter Adamovich, Steczek Petr Bogdanović, Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Committee has established: the number of national MPs who have been recognized as 447, the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have received ballots for secret ballots - 109, in accordance with articles 85 and 147 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, article 3.2. 5 and Chapter 3.7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules The Counting Commission has decided to consider the election to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to be such that it did not take place. The signatures of the members of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u3	Yes, thank you, Valery Dmitrovitch, for the information. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes for the national deputies to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies, please. sign up for the show. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Mr. Leonidas CERNOVECH to the President of Ukraine on the problems of the Darfur District Court of Kiev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:36]] For-49 Request not supported. GREGORY OF THE CALETIAN to the President of Ukraine on the release from office of the Head of the Sevastopol City Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition of reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:08]] For-123 Request not supported. MICHAEL DOBKINA to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal of the head of the Lviv District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:40]] For-140. Request not supported. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the President of Ukraine on the annulment of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 20 November 2003 on measures to improve the pension security of citizens. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:09]] For 171 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:08:31]] For-187 The decision is not taken. WOYUSHA to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal of the Minister of Economic Affairs and European Integration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition of reconciliation between service and parliamentary activity. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:01]] For a hundred and Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:22]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Igor ŠURMI to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal of the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition of reconciliation of service and parliamentary activity. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:53]] For 171 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:10:15]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Jury BOJKA to the President of Ukraine on the creation and burial of prominent Ukrainians scattered around the cemeteries of the world in Kiev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:46]] For-154 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:11:07]] For 172 The decision is not taken. FIXA to the President of Ukraine for the dismissal of the head of the Kyiv District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition on the compatibility of service and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:37]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Mr. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the President of Ukraine about the dismissal of the head of the Wallin District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the ban on the reconciliation of service and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:12:07]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine on the preservation of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities as a single central executive body. [[SIRKO, SHERSHUN ALEXI]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:12:37]] For 165 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:12:58]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Valery BORZOVA to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal of the Ternopil district government in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition on the compatibility of service and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:13:28]] For-160. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:13:49]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Alexander KICELOVA to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal from the post of head of the Zaporozhye District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the ban on the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:14:23]] For-166 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:14:43]] For-167 The decision is not taken. Tamara Proscurated to the President of Ukraine for the dismissal of the head of the Odessa District State Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition of reconciliation of service and parliamentary activity. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:15:13]] For-143 The decision is not taken. Ms. Alexander KARENKA to the President of Ukraine for the dismissal of the Minister of Education and Science in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements of the prohibition on the compatibility of service and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:15:41]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Mr. Wojša to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal of the Head of the Ivano-Frankov District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:16:11]] For-138 The decision is not taken. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal of the Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the ban on the reconciliation of service and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:16:42]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Valery BORZOVA to the President of Ukraine on the dismissal of the Head of the District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the ban on the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:17:13]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Igor ŠURMI to the President of Ukraine for the discharge of the Ministry of Health in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the ban on the compatibility of service and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:17:45]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Alexander KYSELOVA to the President of Ukraine for the discharge of the Head of the Dnipropetroval District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the ban on the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:18:13]] For-126 The decision is not taken. Tamara Proscurated to the President of Ukraine for the dismissal of the Head of the Poltava District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:18:43]] For-125 The decision is not taken. FIXA to the President of Ukraine for the discharge of the Minister of Finance in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition on the compatibility of official and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:19:12]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Ms. Alexander KARENKA to the President of Ukraine for the dismissal of the Head of the Montenegrin District Administration in connection with the violation of the constitutional requirements in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:19:43]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the gravity of the prosecution's officials in the Sumsk district and the Attorney-General's Office in the investigation into the murder case. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs, Minister of Justice for the illegal suspension of benefits for military veterans and internal affairs, failure to execute a decision by the Constitutional Court. DAVID’S people to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the central district hospital in the city of Bogoduhov of Kharkiv. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI TO THE Prime Minister, Minister for Emergency Situations on the Crisis Economic Situation of the Biotzerkow factory “Etalon”. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Policy for Inventory of Property in the City of Hmilnik. LUKYANKA’S lion to the Prime Minister for illegal restrictions on the recruitment of pensions to the air force of Civil Aviation. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Prime Minister for granting interest-free loans to budget workers for housing. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, for the provision of funds to gasify the population of the Premyslán district of Lviv. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for the simple production of the car repair plant of the open stock company “Dniprowagonrembud” of Dnipropetrovsk. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the unsatisfactory resolution of the issue of review of the 2005 State Budget Schedule on the financing of construction and housing for military personnel. Mr. Leonidas CERNOVECH to the Prime Minister on the issue of the Darnicki District Court of Kiev. People of Kirichenko to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Tax Administration, Head of the Public Service Directorate for Press and Public Violations of the Rights of Ukrainian Citizens, First Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration, Catherinechuk. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister regarding the appeal of citizens of Saka of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to unjustifiably increase public service tariffs. Leonida GRAČ to the Prime Minister for the conduct of an audit of selected land for deported Crimean Tatars, Bulgarians, Germans, Armenians and Greeks. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the financing of the completion of the construction of the thermal network for the military town of the village of Lake Zitomir. DAVID’S people to the Prime Minister for financing the unfinished construction of a school in the village of Alexandrovka in the region of Kharkiv. VOLADIMIR LAŠENKA to the Prime Minister on the recalculation of pensions to the widows of the pensioners of the Ministry of Defence. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Prime Minister for the unfinished construction of the National Art Museum in Kiev. Valentina LANDIKA to the Prime Minister on the continuation of all the provisions of the Law on Special Economic Zones and Special Investment Regimes in the Donetsk Region. Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds for the separate streets of the city of Talne Cherkas region. Alexander MOROZA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the illegal actions of the management of the state-owned enterprise “Centre of the State Land cadastre of the State Land of Ukraine”. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister for the conservation of the National Natural Park “Hutzulščina” of the Kosovo region of Ivano-Frankov region. Michael RADIO to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the abuse of officials in the process of implementing the Euro-Asian Oil Transport Corridor project. Mr. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for shore-building work in the village of Ilnice Irszawa district of Zakarpatsk. Vadima GUROVA to the Prime Minister for the provision of medical equipment to the Crevice Hospital No. 3. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI TO THE Prime Minister for an unsatisfactory solution to the question raised in the parliamentary inquiry concerning the elimination of the effects of submerging the village of North and other microregions of the city of Nicopol. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister on the increase in the deficit subsidy in the budget of the Johno-Frankow District Office of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. Leonidas SERGEANT to the Prime Minister to review the order of payment for tax bills. Oleg TUGBOCA to the Prime Minister for the release of the leadership of the State Committee in matters of nationality and migration in connection with official inadequacy. Stanislav PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister for the inability of an organization on the Wall to feed students free of charge from 1 to 4 classes due to the lack of funding. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the appeal of the President of the All-U.S. Union of Chernobyl Disabled Persons and the war on the elimination of discrimination against the pension security of police personnel. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the National Security Council, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service for improper public policy in the sphere of the State reserve, systematic corruption, abuse of office and misuse of budgetary resources, disruption of tendering by officials of the State Reserve. Groups of National Deputies to Deputy Prime Minister Mikola Tomenka for the provision of funds for the preservation of the historical monument — the wooden temple of the introduction of the 17th to 13th century in the village of Rostok in the province of Zacarpathia. [[MIHOVI, TOLKO, ALINIK, AND OTHERS]] Mr. Eugene HOURNIKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikola Tomenk for the restoration of the work of the organ committee marking the 150th birthday of John Frank and for the inclusion of John Frank's monument in the cities of Bolachov and Colomia. Michael BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the allocation of funds for the implementation of the Social Economic and Social Development Programme of the S.H.I.E.L.D. District of Chernobyl. Gennady RUDENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers for the renewal of the rights of medical personnel in the Mirgorod region of Poltava to receive utility benefits, to increase wages to a minimum of living, to an allowance for work and to receive an annual allowance for recovery. Mikhail BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the gasification of the village of Green Guy Novoselické region, Cherniewec region. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the Attorney-General on the appeal of the voters of the Nicopol district of Dnipropetrovsk and the Public Committee for Environmental Protection of the city of Nicopol to the illegal rehabilitation of the SD-28 industrial waste health sector. VICTOR BORSTEVSKI to the Attorney General on the abuse by officials of the Open Shareholders Association of the Energy Supply Company “Dniproblonergo” and the closed shareholding company “The Enterprise for the Exploitation of Electrical Networks “Central Energy Company”. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General for the violation of the constitutional rights of Gabrieluk and her children. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General, Head of the State Tax Administration, the State Property Fund, the State Committee of Natural Resources on the violation of the rights of the State and the labour team of the closed limited stock company Truskavetskurt. Mikhail DOBKINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the issue of blocking the work of the state agrarian and commercial enterprise “Radgossop-department “Mukajovsky”. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General on the situation surrounding the Kirovograd Credit Union Cox. Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney-General on the legality of the actions of the Attorney-General in the matter against the “NTN” channel. Victor TIMOSHENKA to the Attorney General for the distribution of false information by officials of the Cabinet of Ministers on the activities of the People’s Deputy. Helen BONDRENKO to the Attorney General for the debt of earnings to the resident of Slavutić Eutyeuvo. Oleg BESPALOVA to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of landowners of a limited “East” society. Igor YUCHNOVSKI to the Attorney General about speeding up the prosecution’s proceedings regarding illegal land capture and property damage to the Institute of Mathematics of the National Academy of Sciences. MICILI KRAVZENKA to the Attorney General regarding the rejuvenation of the Kyiv City Council’s decision on the forced movement of means of transport. Alexia Korsakova to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, heads of the DPA to assist in the examination of the financial and economic activities of the municipal state-owned enterprise “Central District Pharmacy No.216” of the city of Jenakiyev. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the neglect of the constitutional rights of citizens by law enforcement authorities and suspicion of corruption, when dealing with cases of fraud at a particularly large scale in the Winnick district of Winnick. [[YVANCHO, TOMIC, AND OTHERS]] Jury OF OROBIA and Sergey ALEXIUKA to the Attorney-General on the unlawful application of the Law on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance in the calculation of the pension of the disaster solver at the Chernobyl AES. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Attorney General for violating the requirements of the State Privatization Program. Ms. Aleksandra VASILEVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the activities of the control and law enforcement authorities in the Donetsk region. In recent years, the local authorities, the law enforcement agencies, the prosecutor’s office, have investigated the facts of illegal land grabbing and the theft of grain in the Kirovograd area, which was carried out under the cover of the former President’s administration. MICHELLE REDOVSKI to the Attorney General for the conduct of official investigations into the actions of responsible prosecutors for the purpose of shutting down or refusing to commit criminal offences on the facts of the illegal actions of the Nizhin city’s head. Ms. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Attorney-General for the address of the session of the Ivano-Frankov District Council on the resignation of the prosecutor of the Jurchenk district. GREGORY TO THE Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Minister of Health for the Investigation of Juvenile Deaths as a result of the failure to provide adequate medical care at the Herson County Hospital. VITALY SIBKA to the Attorney General for the verification of information on the illegal alienation of State property by the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. JANUARY to the Attorney General regarding the legality of the introduction of large - scale works in the park area of Simferopol. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Minister of Transport and Communications, the Attorney General, for the violation of the rights of members of the Free Trade Union of members of the Kyiv Metro Police Department. Ms. Alexander Goluba to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the misconduct of employees of the Social Security Department of the Kremenchuck district of Poltava. Oleg BILORUS to the Minister of Industrial Policy for the Liberation of Directors of Industrial Enterprises and Research Institutions in 2004. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the transfer of water networks to the water supply station, the Lviv Railway, to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city of Kiverci. Vladimir ONISHUKA to the minister of agrarian politics, the head of the Odessa District State Administration for the violation of legislation by officials of the Saratsk District State Administration and the Platia Rural Council of the Odessa Region for the spoiling of land rations. MICHELLE to the Minister of Health, the Minister of Internal Affairs, is violating the leadership of the State Academy of Cultural Management and the art of sanitary and fire safety. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK to the Minister of Justice, Attorney General, for the delay in the liquidation of the debt on salary paid to the employees of the Suma plant Humotechnika. John MIHOVIĆA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for gross violations of the civil rights of the Roma. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the principles of activity and teaching methods in the branches of the University of Moscow in the cities of Chernigów and Sevastopol. Vladimir ONIŠTUKA to the Minister of Education and Science for the completion of the construction of the school in the village of Marasiyivka Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk district of Odessa. MICHELLE MELNIK to the Secretary of Defense regarding the subordination of the building that was on the balance of the decommissioned military unit in Winnice. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Health in connection with the crisis in the medical facilities of the Svetłovod Region of Kirovograd. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Ministry of Health regarding the acquisition of a modern x - ray device for the TB dispenser of the district of Zacarpathia. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Minister of Education and Science, the Attorney General, on the groundless closure of educational institutions in the city of Alexandria of Kirovograd. LILIA GREGOROVIC to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the corruption of the Chief of Taxation of the Ohtyr Tax Inspectorate. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on violations of the law of the Yagotin District Police Department in criminal investigations. Alexia BABURINA and Volodymira ĆENKA to the Minister of Agricultural Policy on the violation of legislation in the breeding of the land of the former “Salonian” birddog of the Dnipropetrov region. Mikhail Kosiva to the Minister of Justice for failure to execute a court decision regarding the acquisition from the Open Shareholder Association of the “Livivoblannergo” property and material damage. GEORGIA BUIKE to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the abuse and facts of bribes, especially the large employees of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Odessa region. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on Financial and Economic Grounds for the issuance of an order dated 22 March 2005 “To amend and supplement the Ministry of Agrarian Policy’s order of 21 February 2005 No73”. Michael Kosiva to the Ministry of Culture and Art regarding the normalization of the situation around the National Museum in Lviv. Anatoly of the Orzhachsky to the Minister of Defense about the negative consequences of the destruction of the military training ranges. Katerina FOMENKO to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison to improve rail transport services for residents of the Biloukurakin region of the Luhansk region. Sergei MATVIENKOVA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection on a critical situation involving accumulated pesticides in the Donetsk region. Andrea POLITA to the Ministry of Health for the provision of travel for the treatment of a minor resident of Kyrovgrad. LUKJANENKA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on the facts of the illegal occupation of office in the Ministry of Defence by the citizens of Russia. Victor GORBAČOVA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the provision of reliable information on the situation at the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant and the use of measures to protect public interests. Group of National Deputies to the State on the occasion of the situation surrounding the National Academy of State Administration at the President of Ukraine. [[CRUEL, CITCH, AND OTHERS]] Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Authorized Human Rights Council on the provision of information regarding the observance of constitutional rights and freedoms of military personnel and members of their families. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Head of the Security Service for the verification of the actions of officials of the Ministry of Defence that contain signs of a violation of the law in force. Mr. Ivan Vernidubov to the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the examination of the facts of the assassinations of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Victor Yashchenk, and the National Deputy, Yulia Timoshenko. JURY OF THE ORBS to the Kiev City Head for the purpose of stopping officials from transferring the shares of the holding company Kyivmiskbud to the municipal property of the territorial communities of Kiev. TO THE city’s head in Kiev, Boris was in a position to avoid cruel treatment of animals. A group of national deputies to the Kiev City Head to grant permission to carry out project work and to build church buildings. [[SADCHEV, SILLY, DRACH]] VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE HEAD OF THE LIVING REGIONAL GOVERNMENT FOR THE APPROACH OF THE COMPLETE PARTICIPATION OF THE MAMOGRATURE ESTABLISHED IN THE DENISH Radiation Protection Center. MICHELLA to the Head of State Tax Administration, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service regarding the corruption of the management of the Government Tax Administration in the Chernigiv region. Valery CHICHKOVA to the Head of the Audit and Control Authority for the verification of the activities of the director of the Melitopol factory Hydromash. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Head of the Lviv Regional Administration, Attorney General, on the abuse of the building organization “Brodiagrobud” of the Lviv region. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Head of the State Property Fund regarding the enforcement of legislation in privatization and the subsequent change of owners of the private shareholder association “Kraljevetski armament plant” Victor Tarana to the head of the General Directorate of Culture, Arts and Cultural Heritage of Kiev for a formal reference to the purchase of books for libraries of the Ukrainian-language publication “Krinnica”. [[TERRITO]] JOURNEY CARMAZINA to the prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Yaltine City Head, for the illegal construction of Yalta’s children’s playground. Valeria Assadcheva, Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the head of Kiev’s State Administration for Sanitary and Epidemiological Status, Kiev’s Academic City of Kiev, in the design of the 28 - story building site. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the material, technical and financial support of educational and municipal institutions for the local self-government of the Herson region. VICTOR BORSTEVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional right to entrepreneurship of the resident of Kyiv Bilousa Yevgen Mihailovich. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the formal superficial approach of the Kyiv District Attorney’s Office to the situation of the Tetian Inter-Conference Combustion Plant reform. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the complaint of a citizen of Irinjuk regarding the deliberate delay in the investigation of a criminal case by an investigator of the Attorney General's Office for political reasons. [[Criminal case number 49/1254]] Valeria SAMOPLAVSK, MICHALI SHERSHOUNA to the Attorney General, Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, on the abuse of office as head of the U.S.A. in the Hersonian region of Yaselski. Mr. Vladimir NICHIPREK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the abuse of the position of UBZ employees in the Hmelnicki district. HOVERDIMARY NON - CHILDING to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the lack of response to the parliamentary request for criminal liability of those guilty of smuggling equipment into Ukraine. Thus, honourable national MPs, 132 parliamentary inquiries have been made. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 24; Communist faction - 30; "Ukraine regions" - 8; faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 19; "Ukrainian One" - 6; "Democratic Initiatives" - 3; People's Party - 1; Socialist Party - 10; Timoshenko Block - 10; Alliance - 2; Ukrainian People's Party - 3; Democratic Ukraine - 6; non-fractional - 10. [[united]] From what? From what? You can do the procedure, and here we have the procedure: they're logged in and they're speaking for three minutes. I'm asking you to proceed with the procedure after that. After you've finished. Well, please, Vladimir Leschenko from the procedure of speeches by MPs and factions. Please. Vladimir Leschenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u4	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. I ask you to listen carefully. The point is that in the context of the pension reform by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 20 November 2003, a decree was adopted in 1783, which reduced the average salary from 376 dollars to 306, which is why many pensioners are currently under-retirement. The Supreme Council of May 11, last year, made a decision to make it appropriate. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, my parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine for the annulment of this decree by the Cabinet of Ministers in 1783, was supported. I ask you to return to him and address this request to the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, at the request of the National MP, I am putting to the vote. Who, in order to return to the request of national deputy Vladimir Leschenko to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:42:08]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Yes, 30 minutes for statements by national MPs with applications, reports, information, queries. On the board, please. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to speak. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u6	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear Head, distinguished voters and no less distinguished national MPs! There are two rules in a civilized democratic society. First, both power and opposition, regardless of the regional or political spectrum, work for national interests. And the elector who said today, "Vyat, power!" - tomorrow can always say "Bravo Opposition!" Rule number two is an unwritten privilege for 100 days. Even so, it takes society, the media, and opposition to the newly elected authorities to assess its steps. Neither the first rule nor the second rule was followed in Ukraine. One hundred days of the presidency of Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenka passes the first of May, and two weeks later, 100 days of the government of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. During this time, what did the nation’s chosen authorities do? She has done so much that no one else, perhaps in 100 days, has done anything like this. First, the budget deficit is eliminated -- the legacy of the previous oligarchy regime. Second, the authorities met people, mothers, children, pensioners, budget workers. The government has raised the image of Ukraine, which has been very despicable in the last 13 years by the past regime. At the same time, from the side of the opposition, we hear a crazy and sometimes hysterical reaction. The abstinence behind the chairs is probably what makes you want to know. And that's why I think, as a person who was still in opposition three months ago, the time has come to give a characteristic, an assessment of our opposition, or even classify it, what is this phenomenon in Ukraine? The Ukrainian opposition consists of two parts: the first Communist. [[Ukrainian, I say, for the time being]] Today, like 13 years in a row, they remain opposition to the Ukrainian State. And to blame for all the troubles around them, they don't realize that as long as they don't want to serve this country, they don't want to lose power and interest. One example is that the attempt to privatize the Great Victory celebration, referring to internationalism, to the Slavonics, had never been told that ten million victims had been given by the Ukrainian people. Because the greatest punishment for this part of the opposition was that they had to vote for the national budget written by this national government and the national president. The second part, yesterday's, who were in power, they didn't realize that people said "no" to their methods -- falsifications, manipulations, corruption, lies, harassment, they still continue to protect the person, the district council deputy who was involved in the harassment, the corruption that demanded the action of the people. It is a pity for his eight - month - old child, and who will feel sorry for the children of those whom he has encountered? That's why we have anti-State opposition and anti-democracy, because so far I can't say "glory of opposition," just "disgusting."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u7	Yes, please, Cibenko gives the word to Simon. He'll be followed by the Cossacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Vladimir Simonov, Ukrainian Company faction, Ternopolishte Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm more than likely to address you as listening to the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. I want to inform you of the terrible event that has struck the citizens of Ternopilska today. In the city of Ternopolis, once again, on the eve of a significant date -- the 60th anniversary of Victory Day in the Great Homeland War, when the entire nation is highly respected for the event of the world scale, there was a terrible crime -- a violation of the memory of millions who gave their lives for the freedom and independence of our Fatherland. From April 6th to April 7, night from the Alley of the Heroes of the Soviet Union, and we have six Heroes of the Soviet Union, their bosoms stand on the Hill of Slava, knocked out of the post, and the statue of the Hero of the Soviet Union of Anatolia. Just think about it: To an 18-year-old boy, a soldier who, in 44 years of the liberation of the city of Ternopol, saved his comrades from dagger fire, closed his body to an ambrasur of Fascist twat. Tell me, people of Ukraine, what do you call those who committed such a crime? What mothers gave birth to them? Who raised them? What's the burnt brain in these night-time crime-monsters? They can only be called one word: bastards. Could this be so at this time: the twenty - first age? I don't think so. Why would this happen? But because the local authorities are stricken by the central authorities. Let me remind you that a year ago the Ternopil City Council at its session made a decision, and I remind you once again, to rename the street into the street of the SS Armed Forces division Galicina. That was a challenge for all of us back then. Sixty years have passed since the end of the most terrible war. Mankind, Europe came to a conclusion, and some of us want to return to that commercial time, once again want to side with those who fought on the side of the fascists and give them that name. People take these plates down on this street, knock them down -- the authorities are picking them up again. I would also like to remind Ukrainian citizens that in 2000 the young men of the band of Stephen Bandera struck down a veteran organization that went to lay flowers on the hill of Slava on the ninth day: they threw eggs. These are the actions of the present authorities for 10 years. And once again, the center of the city where the twat was, where an 18-year-old soldier died, and the tablet was taken from this place. I am addressing the President of Ukraine, Minister Yuri Lucenk. Yuri Lucenko, your father stood with me in this rostrum and was a Communist in our faction. You're a minister now. Find the criminals, punish them in all the strictness of the law! I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to consider this my MP's request. Fascism and nationalism in Ukraine should not pass. Let all people remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u9	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. He's got Samofalov on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u10	Mikhailo Kossov, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear fellow countrymen, dear fellow countrymen! The week of our sessional work is ending, and there is a situation in the Supreme Council that I don't know whether it's sad or not. The fact is that the faction of "Our Ukraine" and the BUT faction remained even more small than it was before last year's presidential election. Because if this and the Communist Party faction joined us last year before our opposition to the two factions for years, and the Socialist Party faction was working with us, then this week's work shows that we are completely alone in two factions. I've had an insurmountability and I apologize here in the halls to tell our friends that: if a representative of your faction is conducting an agro-industrial policy in today's government, and you're discussing such fundamental issues as prices and pricing, changing the customs tariff for meat and fish products, you're criticizing the policies of today's government, maybe the prime minister should think about whether in the place of the minister of agro-industrial politics. That's the first one. And now it's second. Today we will again experience a very intense emotional strain in connection with the arrest of the head of the Donetsk district council. Dear colleagues! Let's calm down, because this is just the first example of how the new government implements its main motto: "The Bandits are prisons," and how it sings in that song, "Is this going to happen?" I would like our heartwarming Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, who is rightly concerned about the fate of one prisoner, to think about the cripple who remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! Coalition friends, clarify your relationship. His last name wasn't on it. Please, Samofal Gennady, faction of Ukraine. Follow him, Kachur. The katchur passes the word to Kendzior. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Nicholas Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u12	Rudkowski, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u13	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues! I make a comment to the National MP Rudzkowski, who voluntarily took up the rostrum without having the right to do so. Please, Samofal passed it on to Komar. Mikolo Stepanovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Ukrainian MP's faction notes again with concern and indignation. The Ukrainian authorities continue to cynically disregard the rights of citizens. The new strong confirmation of this is the arrest of Kolesnikov, who, despite public protests, is currently being held in a police isolation facility for no apparent reason. Without judgment, a person is made a criminal. Moreover, she is abused, delaying the consideration of Kolesnik’s complaint before the court regarding the legality of his detention under guard. We insist that the actions of the IMF in relation to the head of the Donetsk District Council are of an open-source nature and are essentially persecution for opposition political views. The "Ukrainen Region" faction sees the situation as an extremely serious threat to the further democratic development of the state. In fact, after the presidential election in Ukraine, the first political prisoner appeared. And as we know, the presence of political prisoners is a characteristic of totalitarian political regimes. That's why we expect the highest public authority, first of all the President's publication of a clear and not ambiguous position on the adequacy of application against the opponents of the current authority of the crackdown of intimidation, with which not only Kolesnikov but also other supporters of Yanukovic have been confronted. We ask the question: Does the authorities continue to use arrests as a means to intimidate those who find the civil courage to object to non-professionalism and revolutionary gratification in the actions formed after the presidential elections of the authorities? The adventurous state of power today has resulted in a decline in the standard of living of citizens and a rise in tensions in society. But instead of correcting their mistakes, the orange authorities began searching for enemies. We warn that such actions will once again put the country at the brink of confrontation. We are all still experiencing the effects of the first Maidan, and the second Maidan Ukraine, in our opinion, is not going to last. The "Regions of Ukraine" faction requiring the immediate release of the head of the Donetsk District Council from custody and unbiased study of the circumstances and the purpose of its detention. And, Adam Ivanovich, voters gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council, they're about 2,000, asking to turn the broadcast on. The faction of "Ukraine" will support this request. Please do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Kachure gives the word to Kendzior. According to him, Kalinchuk gives his word, prepare for Shershun. Please, Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u16	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear friends, respectable voters, the level of corruption of former power, the increase in it with the criminal until recently and today does not only speak to you, as is said to be lazy, in every village, in every district center, in every district center, when you stop on the street and talk to the common people, they will certainly tell you who in this region, in this populated area, the main bribe, the chief corruptionist, the main bandit. They will show you all the wealth of those people, their palaces and so on and so forth. Today, when, in fact, the new authorities began to realize their intentions to rid the Ukrainian community of this terrible disease of corruption and crime, unfortunately, in those regions and in the Supreme Council, there is a very unclear beginning. And I can already predict, as it were, that the work of the Supreme Council will be paralysed in the near future when the rostrum will be blocked because the law enforcement authorities of our state have taken, they say, under the white handles of another bandit, another corrupt bribe. I am in favour of the fight in this field going only as required by our law. But dear friends, let us face each other honestly and our constituents. Please tell me if, in the near future, the Lviv police will take the bonds into the hands of the younger Medvedchuk Sergy for these colossal abuses committed by the Lviv State Tax Administration, and here the SDPU will block the rostrum and say it's a political settlement, and the thing is that we don't have the right to allow it. The thief is a thief who would not carry a party ticket and would not belong to any national group. And we, members of the Parliament of the Ukrainian State, have this sacred rule to abide by. Because it was very sad to watch yesterday when both the regions and the SDPU, without knowing the substance of the matter, began to protect. Yes, you have the right to demand that everything is in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u17	Yes, Colinchuk gives his word to Michael Shershun. Morozov passes the word to Kostinjuku, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u18	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! Work is now under way on the implementation of the plan for the implementation of the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers "To Meet People" in the current year. It is clear from the very name of the government document that it should take into account people's needs as it should be in a democratic country. Today the government is taking the first economic steps to stimulate housing, but that is not enough. The state must provide infrastructure, especially in the countryside, or even those who have already built begin to despair of the possibility of a normal life in their own home. I'm not talking today about building roads, plumbing, sewers, etc., talking about the most important thing is getting to new streets of light. From the ranks, this problem has become global. Both me and my colleagues are literally being overwhelmed by letters. One of the many references I received from the residents of the new streets of the village of Stepan. Beautiful people live there, a beautiful village, and what do they write? We're built, and we're living by the lamps. I think today, in the 21st century, the problem of electricity for a country that wants to go to Europe is abnormal. And since electricity is strategically related to national security, I think it's the state that has to build it, and I think it's in the government program. For example, in the case of Equine, the construction of the power lines could take care of NAC Energoat, as in fact, and be promised by the leaders of the day before the launch of the new block in the Plains AES, or the same company Ukrenergo, which is not even baptizing from the problem, but to solve it promises in the long run. Or would some commitments be made in this regard by privatized oblenerga? Yesterday, I spoke to the newly appointed head of the Holden Foundation, Valentina Seminouk, who had promised to resolve the obligations of these bonds in privatization. However, I am convinced that the government should take into account the problem of electrification of new residential areas in the countryside and develop a mechanism for its rapid implementation. To meet people, not with the dim light of a cuckold, but with modern electrotechnologies, because for the village, light, roads, and gas are three basic living conditions. Please consider my statement an official request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mrs. Yulia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Morozov passes the word to Kostinjuku. Get ready, Shulsey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u20	Bogdan Kostinuk, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine". Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. In the wake of the orange wakes, when the new government needs to pay for social needs and patch up huge black holes in the budget that have been left over from the management of the "most efficient" government, again, the issue of functioning and further development of Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture as a whole, may be overlooked. The Ukrainian language spoke proudly and magnificently on the Maidan of Independence in Kiev and on the playgrounds of villages and cities on the difficult day of the orange revolution. Even those who communicate in a foreign language spoke Ukrainian. Consider how the Hymn of Ukraine sounded in a multi - thousand - year - old arena. And it turns out that everyone knows both the tune and the words. So, after all, there was a word at first. The disastrous situation in the country’s language environment must now be rectified. First of all, we need to put an end to the creative approach of some government officials to the language of the state. Here, the State’s superior leadership should say a significant word regarding the non - permissiveness of article 10 of the valid Constitution. Those who do not speak the national language should not be accepted into the public ministry. Moreover, government officials should become examples of free and sophisticated English. A government official has to speak Ukrainian -- and that's the point. Every year we celebrate the Shewchenk days, which unfortunately did not become a national holiday until now. Our job is to read it again, think it over. creative acquisitions of the genius of the world's scale, poet and proseic, artist and philosopher. Maybe that's when we all come to realize that we're part of a great European nation when we finally move away from the image of our uncle in a pressure hat and realize that he was still an academic at the Petersburg Academy, an aristocrat of the spirit. And that's when we might be able to overcome the cost of the company, extract the slave from us, abuse that kind of scoundrel. Since Shevchenko is the founder of the Ukrainian literary language, the most worthy monument to Kobzarev will be the free and comprehensive development of Ukrainian language, culture. So the new government that's given a huge voter loan has to do a twofold task of restoring the spirit realm and developing the economic sphere. It is through this format that the people will appreciate authority, and let this assessment be high and balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u21	Yes, please, instead of Shulga Leschenko. Boki's next. Passes the word to Melnichuku, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u22	Vladimir Leshchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro, coordinator of the parliamentary association "For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus, Russia" [[ZOBU]] Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! On March 26, the second convention of the Allied State of Belarus and Russia took place in Moscow. The delegates included the deputies of the two National Assembly Chambers of Belarus, the State Duma of Russia, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and the governors of Russia. The delegates were individuals known throughout the world and in the SND: Nobel laureate, academic of the Academy of Sciences of Russia, Jores Alferov, Hero of the Soviet Union, writer Vladimir Karpov, first vice-president of the Academy of Sciences of Hennady Months, worthy pilot-tester of the SSR Marina Popovic, twice Hero of the Soviet Union, pilot-cosmonaut of Svetlana Savicka, academic of the Agrarian Academy of the Republic of Belarus, Victor Shevelouch, head of the Federation of Trade Unions of Belarus, Leonid Kozak and others. Representatives of political parties and public organizations who are fighting to strengthen this union also participated in the assembly. Among the invited were representatives of Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, Kazakhstan, and other SND member States. As part of the Ukrainian delegation led by the Communist faction leader, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, there were five national deputies of Ukraine, members of the Interparliamentary Union “For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. ” The conventioners listened to reports by representatives of both nations, and they discussed them. The main problem surrounding the talk was the speeding up and strengthening of the alliance. This process develops in a positive way toward the joy and envy of all the Slavonic nations. It should be noted that those present at the convention with common sympathy spoke of the people of Ukraine. The door to this alliance is always open to us, and there are the Slavic brothers waiting for us. Guests, including Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, also spoke in the discussion of the reports. We were curious to learn about the situation in our neighbors. The Republic of Belarus rose to the level of production three years ago in 1990, an annual increase in GDP of about 12 percent, and all factories and factories, decent wages and pensions, free education and medicine, all for the good of man. Republic of Moldova. In four years, the Communists, who came to power, doubled the budget. 740 destroyed enterprises were rebuilt, 76 MTS was created, 100,000 new jobs and so on. But in Georgia more than two million people -- half the population -- went out looking for a better fate. In Kazakhstan, which produces four tons of oil per man and one ton of wheat, 67 percent of the population is poor. An appropriate statement was adopted at the convention to strengthen the Belarus - Russia alliance. But on March 29th, "Village News" published a disgusting article on this subject. Not surprisingly, this newspaper is now fiercely anticommunist, anti - Slavonic, protecting UN - UPA, celebrating today’s bourgeois power. Whoever pays the money, that's what they do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u23	Boki gives the word to Melnichuku. He'll be followed by Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u24	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region A statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding domestic goods. On another occasion, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine had to draw the attention of the government to the situation surrounding the protection of the interests of domestic producers. Frankly, we're concerned about the position of the Cabinet of Ministers with regard to imported raw materials enterprises that are not produced in Ukraine for their own production needs and under direct contracts. The most recent changes to the Tax Added Cost Act 2005 have been introduced by commercial banks to introduce changes to the government budget, which have led to the introduction of the tax billing procedure for commercial banks, by importing companies working in new technologies. First, this rule obliges those companies to pay to commercial banks between 0.5 and 3 percent of the bill, in fact for the State's debts to them. Secondly, this procedure provides for the formation of bond contracts, so a self-balancing contract that takes time, and as a result, the raw materials are delayed at regional customs, the manufacturing process is broken down, the enterprises are laid down and they are causing enormous damage. All of this leads to the laundering of the company’s circulation costs and causes large - interest credits in the same commercial banks. The main thing is that the government budget does not receive any extra copies of such a procedure, and it loses. Why, then, introduce into the existing scheme of intermediaries that harm not only manufacturers but also the state. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine emphasizes that the authorities should take care of those who fill the budget, create new jobs, produce competitive, high - quality domestic production. Using new energy and resource-saving technologies, it restores the national economy. We insist on the return of the existing procedure for the circulation of simple bills for imported raw materials. And now I'd like to answer to a respected colleague who spoke on the subject of professionalism. We think, and this confirms life that Minister of Agriculture Alexander Baranowski is a professional person, a man who grew up in a village that worked for a long time in a village. He is well - aware of the peasant’s work, and his actions today are impressive not only to the socialist factions but also to those who work in the countryside. So let's support it, not like the Ministry of Finance is setting up a footing. So let's figure out who's a professional and who's a self-employed person. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Calm down, dear fellows. We're not breaking the rules yet. I'm bringing on behalf of you and the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs for holding something back, but we have to go through this procedure, finish the speech and the answers, the speeches, the dissatisfaction with the answers to the parliamentary questions, and then, as agreed, we'll go to the information. Now he's got the word Oleg Tuggnibok, he's going to have five minutes, because he's got the speech, and he's asking to give him a word in connection with his disgruntled response to his parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. All documents have been properly prepared. Please, 5 minutes, Oleg. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Tuggnibok, head of the All-U.S. Freedom Union, please don't confuse with the Hebish clone. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! In this room, we have repeatedly raised questions and echoed under the dome, as if there were some dissatisfaction with that attitude of executive power towards the people's deputies, the status of the people's MP. I support new power, and I think that the new authority should be tough and decisive, but in no case should the new authority take the worst that was in the old regime and not be hammocked. I'd like to remind you, my friends, of the following. On March 4, this year, 286 people's deputies asked the President of Ukraine to publish lists of USSR KGB agents who were or were in government positions in Ukraine. I'd like to remind you of some of these questions. The Honourable Viktor Andriyovich, one of the main driving forces of the Ukrainian Revolution this year, was the awareness of the Ukrainian citizens of the need and urgency of the fundamental cleansing of power from the human resources inherited from the Soviet era, which were the backbone of the Qutum regime. The demand for clearance of power was reinforced by anti - Ukrainian anti - Ukrainian actions by a large number of state officials during the 2004 election campaign. Counterfeiting election results, secession and Russian interference in Ukraine's internal affairs. These officials indirectly confirmed the use of former USSR KGB agents as the fifth column of the Russian Federation. The citizens of Ukraine feel the need to cleanse power today, after your victory, Mr. President. This has to do with the appointment of old staff to government posts, and the numbering pints of the authorities are vividly confirmed. The theme of cleansing power or illustration was widely resonant in society, discussed by leading Ukrainian politicians and the public. In connection with this, I have registered a draft Law on Illustration. The bill is aimed at overcoming the threat to Ukraine’s national security by ideologists and enforcers of Moscow’s colonial policy in Ukraine. Since the most vulnerable category of implementing politicians is the former secret coworkers of the U.S.S.S.C.R.C., and the extent to which Ukrainian authority is affected by the U.S.S.S.S.C.C. agents is enormous, the inaction against them seriously threatens Ukraine’s national interests. The first step to remedy this threat should be to publish lists of agents who are present or who have been in government positions in Ukraine. In view of the foregoing, with a view to clearing up power, ensuring its openness and transparency, please ensure that the lists of USSR KGB agents who are present are made public or held public office in Ukraine. This MP request, I want to remind you, supported 286 people's defenders. And how humiliating it was to get an answer, unfortunately not from the President of Ukraine, who under the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy would be obliged to give me an answer, not even to me, but to all those 286 people's deputies. I received a card from the Secretary of State of Ukraine. Let me read it. Dear Oleg Jaroslavovich, it's like addressing all of us, not just me. On behalf of the President of Ukraine, your request for the release of lists of USSR KGB agents who are or have been in office in Ukraine has been considered. It is reported that the State Security Committee was created during the existence of the Soviet Union, which ceased to exist as a state in 1991. The successor of the USSR was Russia, which has passed through all archival documents related to the activities of the designated service, which, in turn, does not allow for the resolution of the issues raised in your parliamentary question. I think it's harassment not just over me as a national MP, but it's just humiliation for all of them. And 86 people's deputies. Dear colleagues, until then. This letter, by the way, was signed by Mr. Zinchenko. Dear colleagues, as long as we don't make ourselves respect ourselves as national deputies, because you can't be specifically respectful of Dragnibok, specifically of another parliamentarian, but of the status, but the position that we have with you today should be respected by all. And as long as we don't make it happen, you'll be completely disrespected, full of this hammish attitude towards us as our representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u27	The word has a national MP, Igor Shurma, in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to his parliamentary request. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u28	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In this case, I fully agree with my countryman, Mr. Tsagnibok, and what he said about the Secretary of State is the answer to all the gentlemen of the press, why Zinchenko is with them, not us. As for my request to the Ministry of Health. The new authorities promised to be transparent and to abide by the laws in force. I myself began to rethink certain processes and believed in the truthfulness of those words at some point. After that, when Ministry of Health staff were "appliced" proposals for voluntary labour, I made a request, which is a state-of-the-art enrollment. The first answer is three ruleres, four, sorry. This was the responsibility of the minister. When the new minister arrived, a man whom I deeply respect as a professional, Mikola Polishchuk, and I am willing to bow my head to even here in Parliament. He managed to write three lines of text that meant nothing. Today, 60 people have quit their jobs. The legality of those people’s march from work will be explained in a court of law. Only then will we be able to speak about the legal steps taken by the minister of health. I would like to highlight the issue at the Ministry of Health, for the reason that the Minister of Health is now also a member of the committee, and he is a member of the committee. By using your presence, use your oversight functions at Mikola Policchuk, Peter Prashenko, and there are now 30 national deputies who are now violating 120 articles of the Constitution, which violate 78 articles of the Constitution. And these gentlemen, for example, who didn't build any doghouse, then wouldn't bark that they wouldn't violate the Constitution. They tricked people, and people believed them. In the worst times in Kuchma, there were 32 associates in the Supreme Council. Similar answers come from other ministries. I am not surprised that there is no minister of employment or social policy. We asked him to come here and report back. He never signs the answer to the people's deputies, because as a national MP himself, he received answers at the signature of ministers. Today, he does not respect those deputies who remain in the hall. This is a manifestation of this hatred, which is very often shown by ministers from this rostrum. And by the way, yesterday was also an example of a display of hatred. Be Ministers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I would ask speakers not to use non-parliamentary language. Yes, and another problem we have is that two factions and groups -- "Democratic Initiatives" and "Democratic Ukraine" -- are asking for breaks. Maybe a performance instead of a break? Who's speaking, please? Who's speaking? Vojš, please. Three minutes. Instead of the break, the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u30	Respectable People's Deputies, People of Ukraine! The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is making a statement. [[Joint]] Today, the cultural community of Ukraine is concerned about the situation surrounding the National Academy Theatre of the Russian drama Lesi Ukraine. One of the first actions taken by the new Ukrainian leadership in the field of art was the persecution of the theatre community, which is reflected in the conduct of prosecutorial checks. It is clear to all that the only reason for the prosecutor's close attention to the theatre is the political position of the collective and its director, Mikhail Resniković, who, during the last elections, actively and openly supported the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic. The theatre team addressed an open letter to the President of Ukraine stating that, even during the time of the USSR, there were no similar precedents for the intervention of the theatre under the full control of the KGB. This appeal remains unanswered. The persecution of the creative community has caused a wide resonance beyond Ukraine. In defence of the theatre, leading artists from the Russian arts - folk artists Lavrov, Basilashvili, Friedlih, Solomin, Bistrica, Calagine, Volcek, etc. - addressed President Yushchenko in an open letter. With this concern, the Ministry of Culture and Arts issued Order 166 of 24 March this year, which sets out the distinction between the Director-General and the artistic manager. The objectives of the Ministry are clear: to establish an administrative dictatorship on the creative leader in the collectives. There can be no doubt that, when administrative posts are held, the main criterion will be, not creative success, but the political loyalty of the new authority. Theatre representatives are convinced that the separation of the posts of Director-General and Artistic Leader in national cultural institutions could lead to their collapse. In any cultural establishment where collective creativity is concerned, there will immediately be a strained relationship between the two leaders, resulting in licentiousness and glazing, which means that normal theatre activities will be disrupted. That is why the relevant decree of the President of Ukraine was signed in 1994 on the reconciliation of the posts of Director-General and artistic leader. Today, cultural officials are teaching how to manage and impose their decisions on eminent artistic leaders such as Avdiyevsky, Vantuhu, Kutsevalov, Reznikovic, Chuprina and others whose authority in the arts is unquestionable, unlike the authority of the newly-encompassed property authorities. The gross interference of the authorities in cultural affairs contributes to destabilization and thus to a sufficiently tense environment in society. The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine strongly protested and condemned the actions of the authorities aimed at destroying the national culture, prosecuting members of the culture for political beliefs and demanded that the President intervene immediately in the current situation. [[Joint]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the national deputies who signed up for the performances, had this opportunity. Those who were dissatisfied with the answers were the same. I'd like to ask your permission, because we promised on the Conciliation Council that on Thursday we'd consider the issues and there's a call from the proper Ivano-Frankian administration, and I'd ask that we look at a draft decree for the establishment of the borders of the city of Calos Ivano-Frankiv region, literally within a minute. What does this have to do with anything? This has to do with what is being formed, more faithfully, now changing the budget, and you know that it is being financed. So if you'd like, I'd like to support the proposal for inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft decision to establish the boundaries of the city of Kalos Ivano-Frankiv district, registration numbers 7243, 7243-1. Please vote. Integrating into the agenda and consideration. [[11:27:10]] For 295 Dear colleagues, there are two projects here, more faithfully, there were two draft decrees, but the draft decree number 7243-1 is being taken down by the authors, Masenko and others. So, Alexander Mikolayovich? That's why I'm voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft decision on the establishment of the borders of the city of Kallus Ivano-Frankow region, registration number 7243. Please vote. [[11:27:52]] For 278 It's been decided. Thank you. Dear colleagues, now, as you and I have agreed. Once again, I apologize to the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs for the situation that we held back at 11 o'clock. According to agreement on the Conciliation Council yesterday, we will come to you today, listening to the information, as follows. Like yesterday, five minutes from now we will be able to speak to the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs. After ten minutes, they will answer the questions. Since we gave the commission to the four profile committees yesterday, we met with the committee’s management yesterday, arranged for them to carry out the appropriate work during that time. So, from these four profiling committees, as far as I know, Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov will report to us, inform us about the consideration of the question in these four profiling committees, as well as: five minutes and 10 minutes to answer questions. This is how you and I will listen to this information according to yesterday's decision of the Supreme Council. But before this procedure, please, one minute, Bespallian, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u32	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Adam Ivanovich! You're being distracted here, and I just wanted to draw your attention to one very important moment of our work. According to the Rules, two factions are indeed entitled to a break after the question. And after the break, they're entitled to a three-minute speech, but lately, from your indulgence, and from the indulgence of the other leaders of the Supreme Council, some factions of today's opposition abuse this right, they're writing applications, but instead of the break, they're immediately given a word for a speech -- it's a gross violation of the Rules, and in practice it only leads to their being entitled to an extracurricular speech. If you're sitting in Vasiliev's "Regions" place, it doesn't mean you're working with the faction of the "Regions" you can do that for them. This is wrong, you're the deputy head of the entire Supreme Council and follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u33	Boris Yakovich! Thank you, but I have to say I'm sitting in my seat -- that's the first. Second, if we've been following closely, but we weren't just involved in what you want to argue about, then "Ukraine" didn't take words for a break, they didn't ask for such a break -- that's the second. And thirdly, I remind you again, and you know a little bit about the Rules there, it says that two factions have the right to take a break, after a break of 30 minutes, a representative of this faction has the right to inform about what they took a break with. And so I think the Supreme Council makes perfect sense not to waste time if they're ready instead of 30 minutes. Tell them what they want, we're offering this opportunity, including the factions of our Ukraine, please take advantage. Although you clearly have nothing to use, because you say you're no longer in opposition, it's today, and tomorrow can be different. We approach the information, please, and I invite you to the Attorney General's rostrum, five minutes and 10 minutes to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! I want to say that the detention situation today looks like the following today. 06.04 A number of operational investigations have been carried out in this case by investigators, a compatible group of prosecutors and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. 07.04. 05 The Cave District Court of Kiev has initiated a hearing of a complaint filed by Fedur’s lawyer in the interest of Kolesnik on the grounds that his detention was illegal. The court is pleased to see the prosecutor taking part in the hearing of the complaint, since according to article 106 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, such a complaint should be considered by the judge at the same time as the examining authority or the investigation into the selection of a precautionary measure in relation to the suspect. Apartment on 07.04. 05 The prosecutor’s application for a precaution in relation to Kolesnik was not brought to trial. The deadline for such a submission to the investigators expires in the morning of 09.04. 05. Other criminal records regarding Kolesnik’s condition are not publicized at this time, and information on the matter of compliance is the secret of the investigation, and this information is yet to be reported to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u35	Thank you, Holy Michaelovich. Please sign up for the question, we'll have 10 minutes. Light up, please. Yavorowski. After him, Simonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u36	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Attorney General! The hysteria that is in society today, I think all normal, intelligent people take it the way they should. Ukraine was corrupt by the very ears of the state and it was worth waiting for, it was only worth walking into these thugs of bandits, when immediately there would be noise. How you feel about that question, I'm by the way absolutely. I declare that if there are any violations in the same process, arrests and interrogations, I would like the Attorney General, the Attorney General and the investigators to be responsible for these violations. But how do you feel about the fact that no one is talking about the crime itself today, it's a completely politicized action? How do you rate this as the Attorney General?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u37	I once promised you, here in this evil back in 2002. I never thought I'd do politics, never do politics, never do politics. Today, there are signs of criminal activity, according to these signs, according to an article of the Criminal Procedure Code, the investigator or the prosecutor is obliged to use the necessary means, and the investigation is using them. If these measures are illegal, I will react immediately. It doesn't matter. It'll be Kolesnik's or someone else's. I don't care. So far, it's still within the law. Only the law will be violated by the investigators — everything that is there will be changed immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u38	Yes, please, Vladimir Simonov, with him is Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u39	Vladimir Simonov, please give my word to my friend Georgi Korniovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u40	Please, Kručkov's microphone, Georgia Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u41	Your Honor, I'm not touching the point. It's your business, as you do. As a lawyer and politician, I have my own vision. Yesterday, the Minister of Internal Affairs in the 1+1 transmission said that the question of a court order: whether or not to be arrested, or whether Kolesnik's arrest should be resolved 72 hours after the arrest. How do you feel about the statement that the minister doesn't know the Constitution, he probably didn't read the 29th article? You're like a man who's supposed to be on the watch for legality, the Constitution, how do you feel about that? You're interpreting what you're saying is that you have to look at it at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, we don't have resonant, non-resonant cases, we have a criminal case that concerns a particular person. I tell you again, I don't know who's talking, I don't listen to any conversations. What is said to be written cannot apply at all to a specific investigation into a particular criminal matter. We act solely on the basis of Ukrainian law. My duty as Attorney General is to ensure that the law is strictly followed by investigators. As soon as the investigator breaks the law, I'll act as Attorney General immediately. Why do I have to talk, I'm looking at the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u43	Please, Valery Konovaluk, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u44	Thank you, Adam Vasilovich. Dear Svetoslav Mikhailovich. Sveslav Mikhailovich, I'm here, look at me, I've raised my hand. Last night, at the address of Saxegan, you had 3 beers in an Irish pub, had dinner with your friends and were in a very good mood. And you're entitled to that. That is also true of Kolesnik, who was at the same time in solitary confinement, without having any human condition for existence, without having the right to, on condition, a lawyer and the right to be tried in a court of law. So I want to ask you, why was the investigator changed? That's the first one. Why did this, you know, lawless thing happen yesterday at the Cave Court? That's two. And the third question. Please answer me as a prosecutor, why the prosecution is not currently dealing with crime, not criminal cases, but is pursuing the NTN, a channel which is now exclusively freely broadcast in Ukraine and which is carrying people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u45	First of all, there was a holiday yesterday, a big religious holiday. I, like every citizen, have the right to mark him. That's the first one. The other one. And he didn't say he was eating meat, he just said I was drinking beer. That's the first one. The other one. As far as what the Kolesniks can't do right now. I say again, let the law enforcement authorities figure it out. If the law enforcement authorities have made a mistake, we will correct this error. We're trying to create a delayed environment where, well, it's clear that it can't be normal, but the conditions that are provided for by law. Today, there are indications that he has committed a crime. These shows are confirmed by criminal records. It is not possible to react, not to take appropriate action today. I say again, if it doesn't confirm what it is today, a perfectly legitimate decision will be made. Have patience, please. It's about NTN. The City Attorney’s Office and the Attorney General’s Office on all radio channels were checked. Not only with regard to "NTN," with regard to some other channels, I don't want to call them here today, but we also have the appropriate response documents. I think these are legal absolute documents. As the court and the National Television and Radio Council will say, this is their question. But as a prosecutor, I was obliged to respond to a violation of the law that had been established.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u46	Please, Basil Nadrag. Behind him is Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u47	Please pass on the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u48	Please, Nestor Shufrich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u49	I'm sorry. Here was a talk about the Lesi Ukrainian theater, which was said to have been addressed to me. As far as the Forest Theatre of Ukraine is concerned, not only are we checking this theater, we're checking very many cultural institutions not because we have nothing to do, we're checking not the Attorney General's Office, but the district attorneys are checking. Because there are complaints of a violation of financial and economic discipline.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u50	Yes, please, Nestor Schuffrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u51	Thank you. Svoslav Mihajlovich, to the honor of the Attorney General’s Office, appeared twice yesterday at two meetings of the Pecherski Court. True, he said that he did not know on what grounds Kolesnik had been detained legally or illegally, but that was the case. As you will say, the Ministry of Internal Affairs never came to two court hearings, although the second recess was taken solely to invite him. And the next question is: Fedur's lawyer wasn't allowed yesterday for six hours before Boris Kolesnikov. Yesterday he was unable to meet him for three hours. Today, too, he is not allowed to talk about the lack of follow-up. What about article 48 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which allows a lawyer to communicate with his client, I apologize for such a word, without restrictions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u52	I'm reporting. The situation is this. I asked the same question to the investigators this morning, why isn't Fedur's lawyer allowed? I knew it. Why isn't Fedur's lawyer allowed into protective custody? It turns out that Fedur's lawyer took a license, not a license, but a warrant to protect a suspect in court and refused to work with him elsewhere. So work with your lawyer Fedur.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u53	Yes, please, Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u54	Oh, the investigator's inconspicuous.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u56	I'm telling you again, listen to me carefully. The next one has his position to prove to the court by the morning of the ninth number. Today we have eight. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE That's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u57	That's true. 72 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u58	Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u59	Saint Michael's, please, considering what we're looking at right now, and obviously not everyone knows the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code very well, the point is to explain. The subject matter before the Pecherski court is compliance with the procedure provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code, is that an analysis of the grounds for the arrest or the arrest of Kolesnik? That's the first question. And the second. Isn't there any reason to change, in Russian, "measures of repression," as you think, as a professional? Yes, the precautionary measure, thank you for the tip. That's two questions. And a subjective thought about a dialogue that happened around "NTN." If this is a thorough test, there is no objection. But almost means that "NTN" today is, in my opinion, one of the most objective channels that provides information about Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u60	And some people think it's a music channel. First. The first is the case before the Cave Court. There is a clear legal order when an investigator is accused. A lawyer should have them if he wants to sue an investigator, he can be sued in a court of law. There's a procedure. If I'm going to explain for a long time, I'm going to detain you and the audience, but it's still very hard to understand if you don't know the whole criminal-procedural complex. Come on, Alexander Aleksandrovich, I'll tell you this: there's no criminal code on the part of the prosecutor's office today. If any violations are detected by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we will react immediately. What happens in court is a court case, the court takes a decision. If the court decides to release or arrest him, he is entitled to do so. The court assesses the evidence given to it. We're a party in the process, just like a lawyer, vulnerable.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u61	Thank you, Sveslav Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Time's up. I invite you to speak to Minister of Internal Affairs Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. Please, five minutes of information, 10 minutes of answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to let you know that today, in the introduction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs as of March, 125 thousand 59 criminal cases, if we're all going to hear them here, then listen. Involved in criminal responsibility 18 000 552 was sent to the court with indictments of 16 thousand 152. I can read a lot of these numbers, but essentially. I'm not going to carry out the Supreme Council's mandate to provide you with interrogation protocols and investigation materials. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday in this room, unfortunately, it has already been published: the White Swan University and today none of the co-owners who are supposed to come for questioning are in Ukraine. Gentlemen! The children of Kolesnik, who suffer without a father, were cared for here, but you didn't forget the person who was blown up and shot twice by machine guns, did you think of him as a human rights defender? So, Your Honor, would I ask you to consider, first of all, here in this room, the law is the same for everyone or not? And don't hang political, I'll say it like I think it's necessary and don't teach me. Don't hang political labels on clearly a gang thing - first. Second, do not give the Gramat of the Supreme Council honor to such militias as Salo, a disgrace to the region of Lviv, such woeful people as the Donetsk oblžamdistration such as. Think about what you're doing, because if you'll excuse me, then you'll have to apologize to people, and don't let me have the commission to introduce the members of the Supreme Council to the investigation materials, that's a secret. Now, in fact, Kolesnik was detained on April 6th at 12 o’clock for 30 minutes, the arrest of Kolesnikov was immediately reported to his wife at 13 o’clock, a 13 - hour protector called by his wife Kolesnikov and his friend Shaekurov. After 17 hours. In 17.36 minutes Mr. Kolesnikov's interrogation began in his presence at 5:50 p.m., and I don't see any disturbances here. Another question, Reverend Georgi Korniyovich, Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich! And the other deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the KPC, which clearly regulates the actions in these cases: 106 articles, please take out and see what it says for a second. Let me tell you from the memory that says this: The investigator has three cases to apprehend the suspect, one of them being a direct witness to the victim. That is why the investigator accepted such a measure of detention. Second, the same article regulates that the court may consider a change in the precautionary measure only with the submission of knowledge bodies, investigative bodies, and a lawyer, but not a separate lawyer. As a result, yesterday’s Cave Court was a violation of article 106 of the KPC, a completely direct and comprehensive violation. That's why the investigator doesn't submit to the M.E. Minister, no one else, he takes the decision himself, and he has 72 hours to go to the court that has to give him permission to stay or to reject him. This is the rule of law that you, honourable national deputies, have adopted. So let's not go into the details right now, there's an investigator, a lawyer, a Henprosecutor and a judge. If each of the tens of thousands of cases is handled by the entire Supreme Council, I'm willing to come here, but I won't allow anyone to intervene.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u63	So, Yuri Vitaliyovich, did you complete the information?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u64	Yes, I'm ready for answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u65	Yes, please sign up for the questions. Please show me on the monitors. Ten minutes. Les Tanjuk, followed by Vladimir Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Mr. Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u67	Please, it's Bogdan Kostinuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u68	Bogdan Costinjuk. Dear Mr. Reporter, Your Honor Minister! They said it was a holiday yesterday, and I'm reading on the Internet that one of the national deputies went to the cell yesterday to Kolesnikov and spent the whole night there. So you know about this, is it really something or isn't it? But I want to ask you something else. Millions of voters ask us every day: When bandits are in prison, when gang members of the torturer’s annual years are in prison, not just the performers, but their Kiev clients. When will the Lviv bandits, when Donetsky will be in prison for a year and a half ago, when in the 7th century, in events near the CBC, when they will be in prison forging elections on the server? Even now, television claims to be a witness.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u69	Dear Bogdan Ivanovich! Unfortunately, I was unable to read the Internet yesterday, at least I went home at 1:20 p.m. and couldn’t watch the Internet. But I can tell you that, really, one of them. At the first 20. It doesn't matter. Bogdan Ivanovich, may I have your attention? I really had trouble with a respected national MP, who is a doctor of a detained and suspected person, and she asked for an opportunity to check his health. Such an opportunity was given both yesterday and yesterday. I think it's a perfectly normal and acceptable thing, a person is a professional doctor, he went to him, he found out, he called a fast one, he measured the pressure, he didn't have any health problems, but he wants to see to it a national MP, he's entitled to it. The other one. It's about bandits. You know, I don't think there's anyone in this room who would deny the slogan, "Gands should be in jail." The Ministry of Internal Affairs is working hard to implement this slogan. I'm going to tell you, tens of thousands of criminal cases have been committed, and unfortunately, there will be a lot of people who are going to be concerned about the people's deputies here. I'm willing to tell them every time about the situation and support the hot slogan: "Political repression is not!'but criminal cases of criminal offences: "Yes!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u70	Please, Vladimir Novak. After him, Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u71	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! I have great respect for you as a person, and I am impressed by your determination and purpose, but I would like to make a comment. You're speaking in the Supreme Council in front of your colleagues as if you're speaking in front of your subordinates, in front of your militiamen. I don't think that's right. Please select expressions. And he would ask for the word, Adam Ivanovich, to pass it on to his fellowman, Radion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u72	Thank you. Thank you. If I have offended someone, I apologize, and you understand that giving the Minister of Internal Affairs an assignment to familiarize the Supreme Council with the investigation materials is unacceptable. So understand my concern, if I'm investigating the information I'm going to hand over to the deputies tomorrow, I'm afraid. That many will not be living witnesses. Yesterday I had to send a plane to Donetsk immediately after a speech to evacuate the family of a Witness, a father without his feet in the hospital, because there was information here that would clearly endanger his life. Understand my fever, I don't blame you, I just care about the fate of the person who risked witnessing in such a loud and serious case.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u73	Yes, please, Rodion's 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u74	Rodionov, Fraktui Communists, Yuri Vitalevich, I have a question: a man on the bench of the defendants who, in your opinion, is a criminal offence from the camp or from the side that voted for Yanukovic. I want to tell you that the country has been robbed by 14-year-old criminals from different sides, including those on the side who voted for Viktor Andreevich Yushchenko. Do you have a spare?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u75	Please turn off the microphone. So please, Korsakov. You have to invest in the time you're being taken. Korsakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Pecklusenko Alexandre Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u77	To be honest, I don't know, and I'll never know who I voted for. Not much, I don't care. If I'm going to share cases with Yanukovitch and Yushchenk, or anyone else, it's just gonna be an abyss. I don't know who he voted for, and I don't want to know, and it's none of my business. I only know one thing, any man who has broken the Law is on that side of the barricade from me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u78	There's a lot in stock.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u79	Yes, please have the word of Hellhound Alexander. Paklusenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u80	Hell, the "Regions" faction. Yuri Vitalevich, we all need to calm down and turn this issue around with a cold head. Question of the next order. First. Are you a suspect or a criminal? Definitely a suspect. Say that to the whole country. In a role that everyone can be. Second question. In order for there to be no charges against the political backdrop of this issue, the following must be made: a court meeting. You were well aware that the public, and not only Ukrainian, would be interested in the matter. To hold a court hearing, it would take your representative to be in court for Kolesnikov to be in court. Consider the whole country, and tell the world more precisely: his detention was lawful. That's what we're asking. Can you tell me when your representative will be? Will Kolesnikov be in court? That's the only thing stopping the court today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u81	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, first of all, I agree with your thesis: calm down. First. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine is responsible for the investigation. Followers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs carry out separate tasks of the Attorney General’s Office. These tasks are carried out by the Chief Investigation Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and, in particular, by an appropriate investigator. The other one. According to article 106 of the KPC, the court will take place when the investigator requests the court to continue the detention of the suspect in the criminal offence of Mr. Kolesnikov. I never said he was a criminal. And yesterday, and today, he's accentuating suspicions, but not in political matters, but in criminal matters he's suspicious. When the investigator decides that he wants to detain Mr. Kolesnik for more than 72 hours, he will appeal to the court. It is likely that a lawyer will arrive, the investigator will arrive, Kolesnik himself will be brought in, and a court will be held, which will either continue to measure the detention, or will not support the investigator’s concern, and will release Mr. Kolesnik, for example, to subscribe or even without it. So all of this will be decided by the court. But that doesn't mean that after the first requirement of the 20 deputies, the court is to take place by name at this point and by name at this hour. It's the investigator's business. I don't even know this investigator, I didn't call myself and I won't. I have no legal right to do that. The law indicates that the investigator is in charge of the investigation on his own. And no one, including a minister and a deputy, has the right to intervene in the way he conducts this investigation. He is accountable only to the law, the court, and the prosecutor’s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u82	Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u83	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Vitaliovich, I would like to address you with the fact that Parliament is really a place for emotion, but not for militia. That's the first one. Check it out, please. And please don't ask the Supreme Council to love someone, so you're dividing our society again into screws and big details. So everyone has to answer to a law that he's not a citizen. The law is equal to all. And the second. If so, then you can tell the Supreme Council that these investigators will be punished, will they be held accountable? And are there, in your system, any investigators who can't properly draft a protocol from the past era, from the past system, because yesterday, as I felt, there were claims to be a protocol? Is there another way to fight them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u84	Vitalia Yakovich, I have more than 200,000 employees of the Ministry, I can't say right now that I'm confident of the professional qualities of each of them. To that end, there is the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, who is monitoring the legality of any action by my employees, particularly the relevant investigator. I asked yesterday if there was a problem with the protocol. My deputy, Peter Vasilovich Kolada, reported that the detention protocol was absolutely infallible. The detained Kolesnikov, suspected of committing a criminal offence, was presented with an appropriate article, and there was an interrogation in the presence of a lawyer, and there was a record of all of this. I say again, I don't specifically call the investigator, I don't have a legal right to do that, and I won't be interested in his actions. To that end, there is the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. That's not enough. I'll point it out again. The case is under investigation by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The Chief Investigation Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs carries out separate tasks. I'm not gonna hide behind anyone's back. I'm not gonna cover for anybody. All follow-up actions will be carried out by the prosecutor's office, and if there's a violation, people will answer. But if an investigation or court finds that Mr. Kolesnikov is a law-abiding citizen and he has been unlawfully accused of violating the article, surely before him I will apologize as a minister, and all those who have failed in the course of the investigation will be punished. I guarantee you that. But on the other hand, I guarantee you that if the investigation goes to Mr. Kolosnikov and others, well known in the Donetsk region of figures, no one will stop the investigation, and the case will be brought to trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u85	Yes, thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Have a seat, please. It's running out of time, so don't raise your hands. Dear colleagues, as I have already informed you, yesterday we gave you a mandate to the committees on legal policy, law enforcement, the fight against organized crime and corruption, and human rights and national minorities, as far as possible, to study this issue and inform the national MPs. Such a meeting has taken place, and I now give the floor to these committees to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption to Verni Dubo Ivan Vasilovich. Please have five minutes of information, 10 answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! As Adam Ivanovich said, at the commission of the Supreme Council, we held a working group, two meetings yesterday under Martinyuk's headship, this morning, with the participation of Human Rights Commissioner Karpachev, the head of the Human Rights Committee, Widow Gennady Josephovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onischuk Mikli Vasilovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Protection, Bandurk Aleksandr Markovich, and the first deputy head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime, Verni Dubo Ivan. The meeting was also attended by all eligible national deputies. Unfortunately, the representatives of the Attorney General’s Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine have not arrived. Based on the discussion, I have been asked to report on the following. Formally, from a legal point of view rather than from a political point of view, we today have to speak and evaluate such legal facts: the reasons for Kolesnik’s detention, as set out in article 6 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, are clearly defined for the detention of a person. None of them have been maintained, none of them are available in the protocol. A report on the arrest of a suspect as a reason for the arrest indicated that eyewitnesses, including victims, were injured. . Pointed directly to the person who committed the crime. However. Give it to me in an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, don't be alarmed. It is the right of a minister as well as the right of each of the national deputies to listen or not to listen. Well, I can't force one of you to listen to what the minister says.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u88	But give me that time, I can't tell you everything we've done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u89	Please inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u90	However, there are no arguments and specific facts. [[B in m in s a l in]] To the motive of the arrest, the investigator brought an end to the crime, a warning of the possibility of hiding from the investigation and the court, a third removal of a possible obstacle to the establishment of the truth in a criminal case. However, no fact or particular information that could support such motives for detention was indicated by the investigator. So there is good reason for our working group to say that when Kolesnik was detained, criminal and procedural legislation in Ukraine was severely violated. Second, the question under consideration is the detention procedure. No place to hold. Kolesnik was summoned and interrogated about one thing — events in North London, and the handcuffs were fastened in the corridor of the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine without informing him why it was happening, and they drove him to the Ministry of Internal Affairs in an incomprehensible procedural quality, where they informed him that he was suspected of committing a completely different crime. I'm not going to make any comments here, they're useless. Members of the task force even think that it's ethical to even put on a known person's handcuffs and lead is something else. Third. HOW the Constitution, the CPC, and the Police Act, which had just become effective, signed on February 16, guaranteed the detained right to the assistance of the guardian from the moment of detention. This requirement was also violated, since the detention took place at 12.30 p.m. and allowed a lawyer only five hours later, which also contradicts the articles of the Fifth European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Principles, as well as article 9 of the International Covenant on Civil Political Rights, which has become effective for Ukraine. I quote, "No one should be deprived of his will otherwise than on the grounds and according to the procedure established by law. The fourth question under consideration. In accordance with article 29 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and here is the right-wing MP, everyone detained - pay attention! - has the right at any time to press charges in court. This is also stated in the Constitutional Court’s decision of 30.10.1997. However, access to justice for the citizen of Colossae was not ensured, for he had the right to stand trial immediately, and the court was obliged to test without delay the legality of his detention. It is well known that Kolesnikov was not brought to trial yesterday, the investigator did not appear, the necessary materials of the court were not provided, and as can be seen from today’s reports, no one was going to do so, nor was going to do so today, as the article in addition to those of ours, article 9.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u91	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u92	In addition, the fifth was violated and the rights of a defender who, in accordance with article 48, has the right to know the material of matters that justify his detention. Also, the protector was not given the opportunity. And the last. Kolesnikov is someone to protect, but millions of people pass through the Ministry and detention rooms, to which Carpachov’s Nina Ivanovna rightly drew attention. Why is it so urgent and careful that we today should, through Kolesnik’s case, give a clear assessment of all the systematic human rights violations that are allowed during detention. New people, not always professionals, are now coming to the leadership of the Ukrainian Reichskills Department and the Ministry itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u93	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Yes, please sign up for 10 minutes. Please, on the monitors. Mikhailo Kosov to prepare Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u94	Michael Koss' faction "Our Ukraine." What you have said has a very serious and fundamental meaning, but even from what names you have read and who was present from four factions gives me reason to doubt the objectivity of what you are saying. Don't you think it's necessary that, apart from you, a representative of the faction of Ukraine, who undoubtedly has its involvement on one of the representatives of the same political power that you belong to, you should listen to the other side. In particular, you could not help but notice that your statements and statements made by the Attorney General, and the statement made by the Minister of Internal Affairs, are absolutely diametric.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u95	Let me answer that. To avoid involvement, today the first point of our position, firstly, is to give a political assessment of this violation of the rule of law, secondly, to oblige the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to carry out the order of the court for delivery to the court of Kolesnikov, to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, finally, to give him access to the court, to explain himself before the court. To direct the investigator and everything the court requires, not to ignore him, and the court, not the investigator, directs the court. The court rules with the law enforcement authorities and requires that today at 14 o’clock we consider all of this, and we will not guess. Let him deal with the case of the one who is allowed to do so by law, the case of the court, but let us give the court the opportunity to deal with the case today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u96	Please, Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u97	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I have a question of this nature. When a minister speaks and he has such arguments as to be reasoned, he wants to believe that he is in the right position. The Attorney General's rules, too. I've listened to you, and you're right to say that, really. And the man is sitting. If we put the Attorney General there for 72 hours or the minister, we would see how they felt. So I think the point of the question is, if today's power in the person of the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs and someone for economic crimes in "Our Ukraine" was affected, I think the claim wouldn't be from the SDPU, and there's clearly a political expression of the case. As you might think, if it were from "Our Ukraine," Dusty, for his theft, were to be taken and held accountable, I think there would be no business for Kolesnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u98	Answer. First. Indeed, two lawyers, three opinions, is known to all. Yeah? Second. If this task, which we're looking at today, were given to students in the first law school, not even the university, but the University of Powlonsky, and if we didn't point out that Kolesnik's or other families weren't talking about being part of the party, one hundred percent of the students would answer: illegal detention. Whether he's committed a crime or not, it's going to be different, because the court will give him either seven or twelve, I don't know, I'm not familiar with Kolesnik, unfortunately, and I did whether he's a crime, I don't know, I'm interested. I'm curious about one question that we're considering, which you've asked me today to report, the legality of the arrest of Kolesnik. The working group clearly said: “No, it’s not legal. And the students would also answer, I say, if there were no names for political parties. And when we have political parties, we start doing this in the hall. In fact, if there were a representative there, our group would probably be yelling at one another. This one, all the salt in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u99	Please, Korsak's Alexi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u100	Surrender the word of Pecklusenko Alexandre Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u101	Yes. Alexander Pecklusenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to calm down. Once again, I ask you to take this matter seriously. It's not about the Wheeler today, as it were, or it's not just about him. Detained man. And we all have to understand that the investigator has the right to a 72-hour detention. And with that right, we consider him. The detainee has the right to challenge the legality of the detention before the court, which is the main subject of discussion. The Minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is present and the Attorney General is present. If they ensure the appearance of an investigator and the appearance of a detainee, the court will decide and the matter will be resolved. I ask you to speak on this matter to our colleague Gregory Omelchenko, who knows what must have happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u103	Yes, please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u104	This is where Mikhailo Kosov and Alexander Masenko were asked, almost the same question, because it refers to a coalition that sounds in your information and in the invited ones. Yesterday and today we heard that he was really summoned, Kolesnik was summoned to Kiev, interrogated in one case, and then questioned another in the matter, and carried out a process that today is part and perhaps a large part of the problem. But you're talking about another thing that didn't happen. I have a question about this: You were able to contact those who gave you information that caused you to doubt how to communicate and say, ‘ Have you taken this opportunity? ’ What did you conclude? And what should you report on this matter to the Supreme Council? I think the task of the task force is also defined by its functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u105	Answer. True, there was only one night for these activities, but I was able to contact my lawyer and talk to him. So a lot of what I said. But the main thing in our working group was that the materials that became were a copy of the detention protocol, and that's what I reported from a copy of the detention protocol that he was delaying. I also spoke with Carpathian Nina Ivanovna, who also spoke directly with Kolesnik because I could not communicate with him, of course. And of course, this arrest I just took from the materials of these two people, they're in the Carpathian Nina of John. There clearly stated, Kolesnik himself writes with his own hand about the fact that he gave his testimony about the seventh time of the investigation, came to him at the appointed time with Donetsk, as always, saying good-bye to the investigator, went out into the corridor and here the militia officers approached him and said, "You are so, I kind of, hands here, handcuffs, not a word about anything." He said, "Tell me." And they took it to the Ministry. That's what he said. And only in the Ministry of Internal Affairs has he been informed that you are not being detained for questioning, but you are being held in criminal custody for a crime of harassment, and there is such an article in demand. Here's what happened, and from what sources, I've told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u106	Gregory Omelchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a legal stand. First. A colleague who informed us had somewhat confused the grounds for the detention provided for in article 106 of the Criminal Procedure Code and the grounds for the selection of precautionary measures provided for in article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The grounds for the arrest of Kolesnik, as informed by the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs were, are mentioned in article 106. That's the first one. The other one. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has no right to evaluate the legality of detention or arrest. And the third. Indeed, according to the Constitution, a person who is detained has the right to sue for arrest in court. And there's no deadline for a complaint. Therefore, the court is obliged to accept this complaint, to examine it in court, and to make a decision. April 9th is due when the investigator is obliged to apply for a precautionary measure of custody. And that's why it has to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u108	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u109	Answer. First of all, thank you for at least one of the states, as they say, of the state of opposition confirmed that a person has the right under the Constitution to charge action after detention, and that's already, you can say, unanimously, and no one will object. And the others. Unfortunately, Georgio Omelanovic, I did not confuse the grounds for detention or arrest, but confused or confused those counselors who, since the minister, I understand, had not dealt with these issues before, and did not know, confused his counsellors. We're just getting here, and the conversation here is just about detention. And the prosecutor and the minister tell us he's got a crime situation, and you'll see. Then it will be, then it will be. We're not interested in that, I say again. There's a separate procedural detention institute that's short-term. And it's, I'm not reading a lecture, but I'm saying that the legislator is supposed to be a sudden, instantaneous situation, a thief is running away, we have to keep him right now, because he's going to run away, find out who he is, or the rapist is being taken off the victim. Here's a sudden situation that. But they give him the crime three years ago and they say the reason for the arrest is what the victim pointed to Kolesnikov as the person who did it. But she did, you say, three years ago. He's not running away, he's got a permanent place to live. A famous person, he has young children, if that's what it's like, and that's the legal argument, and you don't have to laugh at the fact that he has children, this legal argument is what it is. What's there to laugh about? And so we really need to execute the order of the court. Today, we bring Kolesnikov to court, we don't give him materials. Nobody needs a secret in court today. The basis for detention is this: Is there enough data that he's going to run away? Is there sufficient evidence that he wants to hinder the truth of the matter? And third, is he still going to continue his criminal activity? What kind of criminal activity is he going to continue? Specify specifically in the report or today in your reports to Parliament! Parliament cannot be lied to! I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u110	Yes, please, the time is running out. Have a seat, please. Please. Minister's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for interfering with your consideration of the performance by the distinguished Nina Ivanovna. The thing is, I scheduled a press conference in Donetsk last night to keep residents from doubting the objectivity of the investigation. And I have to go there now. But before that, I would still like a few minutes of attention. Article 106 of the CPC voted in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The authority of inquiry or investigation is entitled to detain a person suspected of committing a crime for which only one of these three grounds can be punished, clearly three. [[Next article - The Right to Investigation Spreads]] One of them, a friend, says that when eyewitnesses, including the victims, point directly to a person who committed a crime. This is the reason for the arrest. We're still reading. After several paragraphs, it is stated that in the event of a complaint, the detainee’s detention is immediately sent to the court by the chief of the judicial detention committee. The complaint shall be dealt with by the judge at the same time as the examining or investigating body. Then it is said of 72 hours. For 72 hours, I guarantee you that the investigator along with suspected Mr. Kolesniki will appear in court, and the court will examine the legality or further detention or release. I guarantee you that. But please don't make the coroner a lawless puppet. He has the rights defined by your law. And he will act strictly in this framework in this criminal case. Thank you all very much. I'm sorry, I have to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the national deputy, our colleague Bachtieva, made an appropriate statement. Will you read this statement or will you just make a statement? I'll read out the application: "07.04.2005, I visited as a medical doctor at the College of Kolesnikov Boris. In the presence of the employees, the IVC moved the pressure, listened to the heart and light. 08.04. In 2005 in the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian national deputy Bogdan Kostinyuk insulted me for spending the night in a cell with Kolesnikov. I've got a family conflict. Please take immediate action and apologize to the Supreme Council." Yes, will you be performing? Please, Tetjana Bacheva, please. Your Honor, I read this document to you, what else do you want from me?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u113	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, today, what's happening in our country must be affecting every heart, not just me, because I'm a doctor, I've always worn it for 30 years, and I'll always be proud to have the opportunity to wear a clean white robe and always be meant for it. For 12 years, I have indeed been the doctor of Boris Victorovich, and I know him as just an unusual, beautiful, kind, honest person. His wife, Sveta, today's nursing mom. She ran out of milk yesterday. Eight months, little Katyusha. She was born very long-awaited in the family, they waited many years, we helped. And that joy came to them. And today, the people's deputies who can make all of this beautiful and kind turn into something black, incomprehensible. To say "dirty" in white is not supposed to be in our country. It's all about having a human conscience, having a parliamentary responsibility, having a man's dignity that you're a man, and not saying that "some woman." You know very well, you've seen me on TV, you know very well in all the information, the newspapers, that the doctor is Tatyana Bahechev's national deputy. And I'm not some woman, I'm his doctor, I'm always proud of it, and I'm proud. And what today can do. These are the lines that, these laughs of yours, respected colleagues from the BUT faction with Our Ukraine, we don't need to do this, because we need to live in the light, because we need to raise our children, our grandchildren. Let's think about it. If you're very concerned about something in our country, let's talk about the laws, about those bills, let's say that today there are about 30 people's deputies in two positions, sitting on two chairs, being both people's deputies and ministers and officials. Let's talk about it, not about what I slept with Boris Viktorovich. If it is necessary, dear colleague Bogdan, I am with a man like him, I can be with you all my life, and never with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u114	Bogdan Kostinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u115	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The text of my question to the minister -- each one of you can pick up the transcript and see -- and make sure that there was no profession or surname in this question. And if my question offends a female MP, I want to say that I didn't intend to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, we've completed our review of the information. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! Dear colleagues, we must vote now. Then I'd like to prepare myself for it. You and I yesterday, you asked questions about hearing the information of the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs -- we made that decision. Please get ready. Dear colleagues, come on, please! I am voting on the proposal to listen to information from the Human Rights Commissioner Nina Karpachov. Please vote. [[12:28:52]] For 244 Decision taken. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! By factions, please, please, I can hear you, don't scream. "Our Ukraine" - 5, Communists - 56, Ukrainian regions - 49, National Party - 1, SPI - 17, Block Timoshenko - 0. Ukrainian National Party - 2, SDPU - 22, Ukraine - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 11, Democratic Initiatives - 14, Union - 12, non-fractional - 16. The thing is, some factions are already in session. We didn't make a deal here, so long as we continue our work, please, with established practice 5 and 10 on the question. 5 for the report and 10 for the question. Do we agree? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u117	I thank the National Deputies for being able to provide some information and to make my explanation on this matter, which has really gained a very serious resonance in this House today. I would not want this matter to become political. That's why I went up to this rostrum yesterday, asking for your word. Because I'm concerned about the issue of not the personnel in this room. I work exclusively with the staff, as they say in my work regime, as Human Rights Commissioner. And from this rostrum, I tend to speak, not in personnel, but in problems. So here's the problem that the Supreme Council has come up with today, it's a very and very national problem, as they say. Because I said yesterday that more than a million Ukrainian citizens are detained in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system each year. It's too bad the minister's already gone. I had a conversation with him yesterday, and I made some adjustments, and in his comments, which I don't think is quite good enough, he gives me from this rostrum when you forgive me, he doesn't distinguish arrest from detention, or let's say 72 hours -- the Ukrainian Constitution and the law provides for detention. But even in this sense, we have already come across a contradiction with the International Covenant on Political and Civil Rights, to which the United Nations Commission on Human Rights indicated to Ukraine in 2002 that it is not currently in conformity with the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine. Because under international law, it's possible to detain anyone for up to 48 hours. It's an international norm. Ukraine has joined these standards, and they have become part of our legislation. That means, by the way, if the Kolesnik case is at this very moment, because 48 hours ago Kolesnikov was delayed, at 12:30 a.m. the court had to decide whether to release Kolesnikov or to take another precautionary action. This is already a gross violation of international legislation, since Ukraine has recognized and ratified these laws. That's the first one. It's different. Handcuffing isn't Kolesnik's problem, I'm telling you again where handcuffs can be worn. People's Honourable Chosen Ones! You've accepted here the amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the torture article, handcuffing is one of the signs of torture. And there are clear reasons for that in Ukrainian legislation. They weren't there. Next. The changes you adopted in February of this year before the Police Act, in particular, require police officers to call a lawyer from the moment of the arrest, from the moment of the arrest. This was not done. You could say it's different, let's say it's treated differently, but it was a violation again and again. Next. Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov, who today reported on the position of the working group, which was from representatives of, by the way, various political factions, I was at this meeting this morning, and I didn't intervene in any way, I listened to the session, because I was invited to it. I want to say that we have approached objectively. Gennady Josephovich Udovenko said that it was very good that, at last, the Attorney General, the minister began to appear at our meetings. But, dear friends, it's not a good thing in the sense that it's a norm that should always be, but, thank God, that now the General and the Minister come and respect in this way and demonstrate their desire to cooperate with the Supreme Council. You can't help but notice, it's, I say, it's supposed to be normal. On the other hand, you received a very clear report today regarding human rights violations during a person’s detention. This is a principle that has been carefully analyzed without interfering with the investigation. After all, none of us possess the material of the investigation into the case, which was the subject of handcuffs and a measure of precaution. So I want to say that, of course, there was a violation of the law, of the procedural rights of the detainee, of the brutal right of detention, of direct and unimpeded access to the court. We all need to know that. Tomorrow it will touch your loved ones, your children, your relatives. It's not about Kolesnikov now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, let us finish, then we will reduce the number of questions, please, what are you yelling at? Please. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u119	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, don't put this issue on the political plane right now, because this is going to be a threat to Ukraine. I'm just begging you. That's why I went up to this rostrum. I realize that I'm losing in some part of the support that was, and in another part, let's say I have a certain amount of support. It didn't move me, it moved me, and it will move me until I'm in this position alone: the integrity of Ukraine, the peace and the real building of Ukraine's rule of law, where human dignity is respected and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u121	Please sign up for the questions for nine minutes, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Unburned. Boris Jakovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u122	Thank you, Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Nina Ivanovna, I would like to ask you one question: You are speaking in this case as the official person authorized by the Supreme Council of Human Rights. And at the same time, you give straight scores, it's legal, it's illegal. Do you not feel that in this case you are still replacing the judicial body? This is the first one. The other one. For your previous work and until the events in Mukachevo, you showed principle and so forth. At the same time, during the election campaign of the presidential election, there was no way that you could hear exactly your voice when electoral legislation was brutally violated by the then authorities. How can you explain such a pause in your legal activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u123	First. I thank you for these questions, they're really politicized, but I'll give you the answer now to the reverend Boris Bespalloma. First of all, I am obliged as a Human Rights Commissioner to respond to the request of any human being, any citizen who has asked me for help. This is the first time. It's different. In this case, Koleknikov is not an exception. The Supreme Council gave me the right to speak. And I made my comment because you asked me to do that. And second of all, it's about the election campaign. It is unfortunate that Mr. Boris Bespalov was unable to trace the work of the Commissioner for Human Rights. Three public statements, three public petitions to the people of Ukraine, one. Second, meeting with ex-President Kuchma. He was asked not to use weapons under any circumstances to avoid spilling a drop of blood to the Ukrainian people. As soon as I left his office, in which he refused to accept me for five years in a row, I made a statement and confirmed that Kuchma had given me as an authorized guarantee that he would under no circumstances use weapons to the people of Ukraine. Next. Along with the Head of the Supreme Council, when very few national deputies were in this Council and the storm of the Supreme Council began, it would all have ended as it had now ended in Kyrgyzstan. We would really show ourselves as a banana republic when some millionaires ran in disgrace through the corridors, underground corridors of the Supreme Council. With Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvin we went out to the people, here, on the steps of the Supreme Council and we spoke, and we begged for everything to be brought into the right field, otherwise we really wouldn't have had a chance for Ukraine to look like the rule of law. And thanks to the fact that we stopped the storm of the Supreme Council in this way, we were able to do in the right plane what was finally done -- the will of the Ukrainian people. And the last. I was in the Constitutional Court, and I realize that someone doesn't like it very much. But the 140,000 references I received, from the disabled, the elderly, the elderly, whose rights were denied by the Electoral Law with the changes that were made on December 8th in this room, were binding upon me, and my oath, when I swore here from this rostrum, to speak before the Constitutional Court to defend the violated rights of this part of the Ukrainian population. But this is made up of over four million Ukrainian citizens. I was obliged to do so, and I did so honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u124	Verni Dubov, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u125	Thank you. I would like to thank Minister Lucenka for explaining the legislation he has given me and to ask the National MP Pecklesenk for his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u126	Alexander Puppy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u127	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the Regions. Vladimir Mikhailovich, bad day. It's not just that we've insulted and insulted our colleague Tatiana Bachtevo. Hall did not notice how Nina Ivanovna was insulted and insulted by one of our colleagues. I didn't exaggerate anything, Nina Ivanovna? Yeah? So accept the apologies of all men of the Supreme Council for this tactless conduct. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's only one thing to do. We don't ask, we don't have the right to free Kolesnik. We demand a court and a full investigation of all circumstances of detention. If we, the Supreme Council, don't get it, we'll get the price. If we cannot protect the vice president, then we cannot do anything!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u128	Nina Ivanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u129	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please. I'm talking about an image. It's been a long time since I've been offended by the distinguished national MPs, because four years of my activity in this room, the same person said at first that I felt like I was part of an intelligence unit at all, and then said, "You're the only man I'm willing to go out with." So what's going on right now, I'm also taking it from a dialectic point of view. And last of all, I have literally a few seconds left, my fellow officers, today at the meeting of the working group on Kolesnikov's case, there was information very and very disturbing to me as for the Commissioner of Human Rights, and I think for you, the honourable national MPs. A search was conducted last week in the office of one of the Ukrainian national deputies without the presence of this national deputy. His personal correspondence has been removed, and I believe that this fact must by no means be overlooked by you right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u130	Yes, Singeruk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Vitalia Šibku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u132	Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u133	Thank you, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Nina Ivanovna, Nina Ivanovna! Do you not think that we do have some kind of sign of democracy, even if you're speaking twice on one staff here in the Supreme Council, and you haven't had that possibility before, I guess, since the election? You rarely spoke on this subject, perhaps. Because Parliament didn't give you that opportunity. That's the first question. And the second question. Please tell me, is it really disturbing what the IMF and our prosecutor's office have done today? Why do I say that? Because what Vernidubov reported today is exactly what you said yesterday? So, really, is it possible to judge objectively from this point of view what happened to Kolesnikov? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u134	Thank you for asking. You know, I always take advantage of the opportunity to speak at parliamentary hearings. Vladimir Mikhailovich will confirm that, during the election campaign, I asked him to step out of this rostrum, but he simply came to me with tolerance and said that if we were to do this right now with you, consider that your contribution to it is, even though I wrote three notes and in advance, I applied in the day. It's very sad when, in the case of Muchachev, half the hall wouldn't listen to me, and we voted in this room, and I actually wanted to shut my mouth. But thanks then to the position of the principled "Our Ukraine," I first got the word from this rostrum, and I'm absolutely convinced that what I did then violated the authorized person's case, speaking of the scenario that was actually being tested in Mukachev at the time, to some extent, was a safeguard against the brutal violations that we then observed with you. And the next. By the way, at the parliamentary hearing after the migration, I was speaking directly at your request, that was a month ago. I would like to say that, on a large scale, I have listened very carefully today in Parliament and in the morning of the working group. Believe me, the matter must now be dealt with systematically, in violation of human rights. I once, in the example of the honourable Mrs. Yulia Timoshenko, tried to draw the attention of the whole society to the fact that the arrest that was used was illegal. And in a resonant way, show the whole community how it shouldn't be done in our country. Likewise, and now in the case of Resonant Kolesnikov, I am again trying to draw attention to the problems of that million people who are constantly lingering in the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u135	Eugene Kirilchuk, please, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u136	Thank you. Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u137	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u138	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Nina Ivanovna, two questions, I voted specifically to ask them to you. First question as a national MP: is that one million that we're all worried about on behalf of the previous minister of Bilocon or today's minister who just reported here? The second question is like a doctor, a child doctor, and a woman. I am moved that you are concerned about the breast-feeding of a suspect child, one of the richest people in the Donetsk region. But are you concerned about the breast - feeding of the victim who had his legs broken? Do you know how many children he has? Do you know if his wife is feeding, perhaps she has long since lost her milk? Do you know how many people have not been fed and fed because of the harassment and criminal acts of suspected Kolesnikov? Are you an ombudsman for that Donetsk group or for the entire Ukrainian people?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u139	Thank you. I think you answered with the last trailer. In fact, I am the Human Rights Commissioner for the entire Ukrainian people. And that is exactly how I am obliged to put these questions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's from one. On the other side. That's about a million people being held in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system. I don't think it was a problem for any of the ministers -- it was a problem for you and me at the time, the national MPs who were, it was a problem for the President of Ukraine. In my annual reports, I drew attention to this problem, but unfortunately, there are always no gaps when such reports occur. So it's to me that right now, probably as they say, painfully, but the question is to get back to these problems, to get back to the problems of systematic arrest. Dear President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko! By the way, speaking during the presentation of the new head of the Department on the execution of sentences, he noted that he was ashamed as President of the State, that Ukraine was the world leader in the application of detentions and arrests. And it's true, and it's true. And that's why we're with you in a new way right now, really, we need to approach this problem, study it carefully and systematically, not rip some piece and not turn it into political battalions. That's what's important to me today. I'm just asking you, you're a smart and wise person, understand the position of the Commissioner of Human Rights right in this part. As far as the victims are concerned, if you'll excuse me, I'm not dealing with a criminal case, I don't know who's been granted the status of the victims. I was not approached by the other side, I was approached by a specific person -- and I was obliged to respond specifically to a specific reference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u140	Thank you, Nina Ivanovna, time is up. Please sit down. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're closing this question, aren't we? What? We're on our way. Just a break, what's that gonna do? Dear colleagues! Let's finish this consideration. Let me just say that I wasn't meeting with the President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development at the meeting because I didn't know that there was a discussion, but let me think about it in general. Maybe you can support them. Dear colleagues! The more we talk about this and other problems, the further away we are from the truth. I've been convinced of that for two days of conversation. We need the truth. Recall the preceding period when objectivity was required, while others looked intently, things changed today. Some feel satisfied wiping their palms, others demanding truths. Yesterday, they said, "Remember yesterday when criminal cases broke down and it was not politics, it was criminal." One part insisted that it was politics, and the other one was oblivious. Today, we hear the same thing. What was a criminal yesterday is now the law. What was law yesterday became a criminal. The question is, What kind of society do we live in? We are demeaning all of Ukraine today. We demean ourselves, but we do not have objective and comprehensive information, and all of us do not. Fact? Fact. I think we need to talk not so much about individuals, about the processes that have taken place in Ukraine today in Ukraine. Dear colleagues! And one more moment, I could say a lot, but the time will come, I'll tell you what the attitude continues with the national MPs. I'm talking about listening, tracking and stuff. [[Applause]] And I'm going to show it on a personal example, I'm going to document it. I ask: in what state do we live when we allow ourselves to do so in relation to the Head of the Supreme Council, “not the first and not the second person” in this state, as one man once said. I want to say again what's going on, it's a political solution, I mean listening, tracking and all that. [[Applause]] Because someone wants to prove himself right so that he doesn't answer for what he did. Let us preserve the potential of trust that is now before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today the potential for trust in Parliament is one that has never been in power in general. Let's show that we are the Supreme Council, and let's stop gratifying to rub hands when some people have problems. Let us talk about what we need today’s consistency on principles of objectivity. Dear colleagues! Think of yesterday’s period, which were requests that were made by others. And I would also like to say, fellow believers, we need not simply resent if there is a position of the Supreme Council and an objective position, we need to make some decisions, some suggestions. Where are the draft decrees? They're talking about something today, and there's nothing, because without a concrete way out of this conversation, two days is to let out a couple. Then there is no need to compromise the Supreme Council if there is no sound reason to propose a solution. A break is being announced. I thought it was 12 hours, sorry. It's 13 hours. So, respectable colleagues. Let's move on to different hours, different hours, please. Please sign up for something different. Leonid Kadenuk, non-fractional. Prepare Kulczynski. Give me an hour, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u141	Yeah, it hasn't, yet, has it? Yes, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends, after a few days on April 12, we will celebrate the World Air and Space Day and the Day of the Space and Missile Sector of Ukraine. Actually, from April 12, 61st, a new era of cosmonautics began, directly into the depths of the universe. Today, space exploration and virtually space scientists have reached such heights that their practical results have already determined to some extent the ways of developing the economy in many countries around the world. Ukraine is one of the leading countries that actively works on science and space programs to create missile and space systems, to use space technologies in other sectors of the country's economy. It would be impermissible to waste the stock that has been set up by previous generations, and now the space sector of Ukraine retains its high scientific and technical potential, which is confirmed by the implementation of Ukraine's years of independence and the use of Ukrainian carrier rockets: Cyclone, Zenith, Dnipro, 85 launches of carrier missiles and the release of 184 spacecraft around the globe, including 10 Ukrainian development and production of a series of "Chronas Interball", "Sic One", "Ocean O", "Cyklon Two". In 2004, 7 launches of Ukrainian rockets were launched and 15 spacecraft were produced. Today, with the use of the Sic-1M spacecraft, launched in orbit on December 26 last year by Cylon-3M, an international experiment was launched with the Variant program, designed for satellite and ground atmospheric monitoring. The main priority of the space project today is the creation of the Cyclone 4 missile complex by Ukraine and Brazil. An international legal instrument that defines the principles and conditions for the implementation of the treaty between our countries is ratified by two parties. The implementation of this huge project has entered a practical phase. Without our potential, its development cannot be effectively implemented by any large-scale socio-economic information programme of the country. It is known that for one unit of money invested in space affairs, the country receives 10 or more units of income. So the question is solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, Mikola Kulczynski. Prepare the Wider.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. On April 10th, at 4: 00 p.m., the city of Poltava will launch an untimely action of opposition. One reason is that Poltava has no city head for three years and has essentially destroyed local self - rule. Twice in city council sessions, the city’s deputies have decided that the election of the city’s head should not be targeted. In fact, the city's head continues to be the former city head, and now the national deputy of Kukob Anatoly Tikhovitch. As the Polish entrepreneurs write to the President of Ukraine, without personally interfering with our mayor in the paws of Anatolia Thoković Kukuba, there is no question in the city. Meanwhile, during the President’s election, the Poles experienced tremendously brutal pressure on themselves as voters. The intimidation, blackmail, information hysteria of the Mesquicones media and finally the direct falsifications of the electorate's will. There are many witnesses to this. Especially the cynical behavior of Poltava Mesquikonkam is reflected in the destruction of the 40-year-old Victory park. Special cynicism is the building of a church park. It seems to be God’s case, and in fact it is blackmail. At the meeting of the Committee for the Rights and Freedoms of the Poltava Community and the Secretary of the City Council, Igor Bogdanović Mikhayluk, from his mouth, suggested that the Mississippi stand ready to stop building if the Committee for the Rights and Freedoms of the Poltava Community ceases to demand elections and does not conduct resistance actions. Thus, the destruction of the park and the construction of the church are planned by the city’s authorities for the purpose of blackmailing the Poltanites so that they do not demand the election of the city’s head. Dear friends, the revolution in Ukraine has won because millions of people no longer have the strength to live in a reserve of total lies, total violence, incredible social disengagement. Cleaning, updating Ukrainian society is a vital requirement of the day. And we can only welcome the actions of the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, regarding the head of the district council in Donetsk Kolesnikov. Because what happened in the past turned the Donetsk area into a criminal reserve, I have no doubt about it, I was in Donetsk in 2003. And here I hope that neither the Ministry of Internal Affairs nor the Public Prosecutor's Office will deviate from their decisions, they are absolutely legal. And such decisions will be made everywhere where there have been crimes, violations of the law, including in Poltava. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u144	Please, Shirko and Zagreva, now number four, are handing over their right to speak to the representative of the Rabbit, six minutes. Ivan Hare, please. Get Katuszevi ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u145	Honorable National MPs. John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. As a representative of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, I want to speak in defense of the villagers. It is those who run a private farm, that is, those who hold a cow and give milk to processing enterprises or grow cattle for meat. I remind you, honourable national deputies, that this sector gives 70 percent of agricultural production, including milk and meat more than 80 percent. Each of you knows that these numbers are behind the hard work of peasants. What do peasants have to do with this work? Nothing good — no money, no peace, no attention from the authorities. Today, I have met a number of tens of citizens who represent peasants in virtually every village in the Zolitani region of the Cherkas region. They came to Kiev to defend their rights and interests. And here's what they told me today. One man named Spodnik Boris Kindratovich gave 40 tons of milk over the past year. And what does he have to do with it? Some damage. He's only been given a bonus as a refrigerator, because, you see, he's given away a lot of milk. What do we have next? We have what processing companies do, milk factories buy milk for cash in peasants. Today, it's about a bracelet, 80 copies. In February, they gave a total of 1.50. This means that today the production of milk by peasants is simply unprofitable. There is no need for humans today to keep a cow, to waste such hard work, and to grow and produce milk. But at the same time, we can call the village of Domontov, the same Golden region. If it's a farm, it buys 1.60. Bought. If it's a peasant, it's 1.20. I mean, I'm pointing out that, despite the fact that the Supreme Council has adopted the Act on Supporting Entrepreneurship, the state today is completely unprotected and does not even want to look at it. So I'm asking questions about the protection of a national manufacturer today. And this national producer is not only a collective farm, but also a rural farm. That is why I would like the national deputies to be obliged today by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. The Antimonopoly Committee, to finally give an answer and find a way out of the situation so that the farmer who is growing cattle for meat today, or raising cattle for milk, is protected to have economic gain, otherwise the village will fail. And today those who still keep us in the city will perish. Now I want to raise another problem, that's our problem, the Supreme Council, our Parliament, that's momentary politics. We're going to go down again today for the government's offer of duty to import agricultural products. But we don't see any proposal today about other non-tariff methods of regulating our market. I'm talking about the quota here. If we reduce tariffs, there must be a quota at the other end, otherwise we will not protect the internal market, especially the rural one. And we're going to hit again today on that peasant who's growing livestock that's still clinging to that land today to preserve Ukrainian language, Ukrainian tradition, in the end, to save the Ukrainian nation from being lost and taking a decent place in the world. There's a bill submitted by representatives of the Ukrainian People's Party -- Assadchev, Zagreb -- on quota imports. I would then ask you, honourable national deputies, to consider reducing duties on agricultural imports at the same time to consider this quota bill. I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council and to his first deputy to make this a plan. Today we are in such a situation that we need to understand that the most complete market is the internal market, not the external market. Regrettably, the previous government has been pursuing policies aimed at transforming the Ukrainian economy as an export-type economy, and based solely on the export of raw materials. So we're not going to raise our economy if we don't realize that we have to fill the internal market with our own producer. The same applies to milk production, whether it is meat or, for example, agricultural machinery. I don't understand politics at all when we can't release a few thousand of our combines today in 10 years, because we're a state that has developed agricultural production, but we don't have developed machine-building. Who today thinks so? I've been drawing your attention here for 15 years, the attention of governments not only to agriculture, but to agriculture, not only to peasants, but to the industry that manufactures agricultural machines. It's a no-brainer! So let's say people's deputies talk less, but in their actions, to act decisively, to adopt laws that will protect our peasant today. Today, a dairy plant cannot buy its produce without a contract, for it remains unprotected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u146	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Have a seat. I'm completely in solidarity with your proposals for a wholesaler, you came to us. Please, Katusheva Zorema. She's going to go after her. She's going to give her voice to Rahan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u147	Commie faction, Crimea, Katusheva. In the eve of the 60th anniversary of the victory of our Soviet people, our veteran electorate has increased to us people's deputies. In these treatments the pain and insults of our fathers. On behalf of the veterans of the Great Homeland War, guerrillas, the first group of Rgachev Rgachev Petr Anfimović, the village of Good Simferopol Region, was contacted by the V.E.A. In his letter, he wrote that until 2005, WWW disabled persons had received a concessional coal: one ton. Earlier, veterans had received one and a half tons, which had been brought to the veteran’s home for free. In 2005, the Government of Ukraine introduced a novelty: coal, one ton, will sell 407 bracelets, and the disabled vet is obliged to bring coal home for his money and imports are worth up to 55 bracelets. For most of our veterans, it's an insurmountable sum. The value of good coal in stock is 480 - 550 grevens. Who's going to pay that difference? And that's not all. In order to shape the coal, it is necessary to provide a package of documents: a copy of the passport, a copy of the veteran's certificate, a certificate from the place of residence, a family composition, an identification code, all of this, to form in a bank, to pay an introductory contribution, the amount of which is from one bracelet and more to purchase a folder for all documents, and the WW veterans themselves or their family members are on the move, to collect copies of documents, certificates from the village, to Simferopol to form the coal for 2005. But the money for coal is 407 grevens, and now it's worth 480-550 grevens. By the autumn of 2005, it would undoubtedly be more expensive plus more to pay for the ride. The question is: What clever head of Ukraine has come up with as a gift to a veteran by the age of 60 of Victory? Coal must be brought home free of charge to a disabled veteran and the norm should not be reduced as it has now been from one and a half tons to a tonne. A number of Governments have failed to reduce this norm, the benefits. We Communists need to stop the reduction of benefits. It's a mockery of V.A. veterans. There was no such abuse of veterans by the Soviet authorities. I request that you consider the request to Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Vladimirovne. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u148	Yes, please, Anatoly Rahansky, prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u149	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky. All-Ukrainian children's health centre, the parliamentary group “Democratic Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Eupatoria is an ever - young all - Ukrainian child’s health, although it is 2.5 thousand years old. She's always been guarded as a health care professional who heals children and treats severe diseases of the motor vehicle, the D.C.P., the trauma. Unfortunately, during the years of our State’s independence, not only does the State not give enough attention but it does not see, or does not want to see, how Mintrans Ukraine, in pursuit of freight traffic, barbaric mining of sea sand, degrades, defiles Ukraine’s gift of God and of nature known throughout the world, the Eupatoria resort. That's the problem. In the center of the resort is a state seaport, which was designed only for passenger transport. Recently, however, Mintrans of Ukraine, ignoring the standards of urban construction, planning, and construction, reclassified the Eupatoria port to a cargo port that adversely affects the quality of sea water at treatment beaches, pollutes sea water with organic waste and petroleum products. Every day, couples come to the port that connect the port of Eupatoria to the ports of Turkey. Heavy canyons in the resort area pollute the air with exhaust gases, destroy roads, pollination, and increase noise levels. In recent times, there has been an increase in imported rats migrated from the port to the children’s sanatorium, especially the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. Sanatorium. At the same time, it is located in the village of Mirno, Eupatoria, Donuzlaw’s seahair, and is transferred to the Kerchny seaport, 326 km away. It's like, "Where does it go, where does it go?" The Kerchny seaport is very active in renting hair to extract sand, thus violating ecology, leaving the sea ashore. In view of the above, an alarming situation, please correct my statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate adoption of peace. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, Vadim Gurov. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Currently, only the lazy one is not concerned about the continued fate of Ukrainian privatized strategic enterprises. The main object of the trial of disputes is, of course, the “Criminal Court”. It seems to me that in the world, Ukraine will be known and judged not only by the Klitschko and Shevchenko brothers, but also by the Creatures. You know, I've initiated the Act on Amendments to the List of National Property Rights Objects, which are not subject to privatization, on the subject of "Criminal Crimes". When my law was considered in plenary meeting, " in favour ", the President vetoed the car, and it turned. President and president of Ukraine. And only 212 deputies voted in favour of breaking the veto, and the rest got stoned. It is offensive, of course, that in Dnepropetrovsk the MPs did not support me and as a result, Krivorostal went on to privatize. What's the main question now? This is primarily the filling of the budget. And like a test stone, like a lunch that would spill a powerful dam, they decided to try all the schematics on the Creatures. I believe that this is the beginning of a great journey, a great transition, and not to get away from the rest of the metalworking combinations. If you consider that the Creebral was very cheaply purchased - 4.5 billion grevens, what will happen to the others who have been privatized for funds below? So, how to decide the fate of "Criminals" will be with the rest. I've just met a team of steelworking men and motorists, at their request. What did I hear? First of all, the labour force is 55,000 people, outraged by such contempt for their views and wishes. Domestic stoves, martens, incomes, profits are considered at the highest level, and the labour community's opinion is considered free of charge. But it's no less powerful, and I think it might be stronger than the power of Maidan. What's with the exhilarating team? They do not understand, first of all, what do the authorities want from them, what will be the fate of the combination in the future, what will happen to them, already the stockholders of the combination, i.e. the owners? As a team, it's never worked before. They're working together, and they're like, "When's this mess going to end?" Let the Government come and clearly determine what the combination is responsible for, what is the responsibility of the collective? And if the combination, along with the labour force, wants to resell and not be excluded, and perhaps so, foreign capital, they categorically said no. They're against it. Because foreigners don't need the Creebral, they need the Iron and Red Krivbass. Doesn't that make sense to you? So do, we, our committee, are having a visiting meeting on 13 April to determine where we are, to meet with the labour groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u152	Yes, please, Anatoly Orzhachowski. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u153	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, voters. In this presentation, I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to the negative actions of today's executive power, the implementation of President Yushchenk's promises. Instead of correcting the mistakes of the Kukami rule, his present followers are horrifying people every day, rather than changing tariffs, the staff guard, the aria of the famous tales of swans, cancers, and bats. The president of Ukraine, who is in the United States, usually praises his family, asks for alms, all the way down to the knees of the Pacific leaders, visits one of the cities with a questionable reputation as the center of this powerful world. It's all to support the rule of law, Ukrainian clocracy, to gain market economy status, to recognize as Americans a high level of democracy in paws like Iraqi. During the visit, the head of Ukraine signs a statement that promises to work together with the United States to support freedom in the countries of Cuba and Belarus. As we can see, Mr. Yushchenk may not like the peaceful heavens and the tranquillity of these lands. Before doing the same, it would be worth mentioning tens of thousands of raised children in Ukraine in Cuba. Or do you need healthy people, Mr. President? So I support the fair demand of the faction of Ukraine. For impertinent interference with the internal affairs of sovereign states, you must apologize. In another way, we're going to think that you're being protected by a superstate, not by an independent foreign policy. That's different. The President's associates, by bringing the media to justice, even outside the constitutional procedure, wanted Ukraine to be overthrown by territorial reform before the 2006 elections. The goal is to take power away from the people. Deputy Prime Minister Immortal agreed that he compared the village of the Soviet era to a levelled village. Forget to add, Kuchma, him and their followers in the age of independence. But Ukrainians remember Soviet times and the prosperity of agriculture. The time created by today's woe reformers will be time to analyze. It is also surprising that the Government of Timoshenko is withdrawing economic laws from the Supreme Council at the same time. Our Ukrainians don't like the idea of creating a local self-government militia. The law on the reporting of deputies to voters in lower council sessions is not supported. After the last appointments, usually from the streets of executives, labour legislation is violated, leaving professional selection of personnel. There is an attempt to resuscitate old electoral legislation, a rejection of political reform. There's something Trying to change the newly elected heads of self-government, toss down the shelling sessions, as it did in Herson. Voters need to know that in today’s parliament, two oligarchic groups, instead of legal action, are clearing the minds of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u154	Please, Oleg Belarus. To prepare, Lechchenko conveys the word Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u155	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the new social budget and, thank God, the results of the first quarter and April of the month following the implementation of the budget show that social issues will be resolved on a new financial basis, and that 14 million pensioners, disabled persons, teachers, doctors, cultural workers will receive a significant supplement to their salaries, pensions. But today there is no more important social issue in the countryside than the gasification and construction of rural roads. Not far from Kiev can you go, 15 to 20 kilometers [15 to 20 km] and there are villages with no gas, no roads. Recently, as a national MP, I was in one of the villages of the Kagarlic district and on the rural road loading so that I was going to spend the night in the same place, if not for a good soul, a farmer who had come by his tractor without a tannery. They removed the solar system from the village, filled the tractor, repaired it, and pulled out the national deputy, and another car. This illustration shows the ways we have. And it's not just any distant province, it's the Kyiv region that was praised everywhere. Without that, we can't invite any delegation there, especially the foreign delegation. I think the government of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko will be able to implement the limits that have been set -- 450 million. to fine-tune villages and 450 to invest in social orientation. I don't think it's worth delaying funding at the end of the year, as it did before, in the rest of the way. And I think that each of us national MPs should be able to control those objects and those projects that promised us to fund by the limits of one million and one million. Any attempt to distance national MPs from this important social work is unjustifiable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, Catherine Samuel. Then Bogdan Kostinyuk gives his word to Kenzior, who is now the fifth. He has the opportunity to speak. He'll have six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u157	In recent times, the government has launched a large-scale campaign to humiliate and discriminate in all spheres of social, national life of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Historical, Cultural, State-building Powers of our country, and the largest religious organization in Ukraine, which recognizes all the historical ancient religious centers and communities of Europe around the world. This negative attitude is reflected in the speeches and actions of high - ranking politicians, mainstream politicians, the media, both central and local government authorities and authorities. Despite the stated respect for the religious beliefs of citizens during the pre-election period and the failure to intervene in the internal affairs of President Yushchenk’s official talks, real actions aimed at suppressing an atmosphere of intolerance towards believing citizens of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. This indicates a purposeful program for the destruction of the Canonical Orthodox Church. Believers view these events as the beginning of persecution against the Orthodox Church. And it is sad that this war was declared by the President of Ukraine by believers. Such conclusions are not unfounded. The unfriendly, disrespectful, or even openly hostile tone of the public media on the position of the UCP priest, on church crimes, on the distortion of history, on the broadcasting of newspapers and newspapers for ecclesiastical crimes that deform the public and willfully shape the image of an enemy from religious citizens of the historic UPC, are being pushed by the local authorities to commit illegal acts, the seizure of temples, the discrimination of citizens in everyday life, the creation of Orthodox ghettos. Attempts to capture temples in Suma, the Ternopil region, the need for officials to leave their homes, the inability to obtain land, the failure to return temples, the mass transfer by various religious and political groups of the land, the tactless statements made by Vice-Prime Minister Tomenka, his insolent visit, Zinchenko, the Secretary of State, to Istanbul, are all incompatible with the democratic principles of our state. This deliberate spread of social stability, the search for and formation of an enemy of the state, the humiliation, discrimination against Orthodox believers in Ukraine and the UCP in general, gives rise to wonders, anger and rejection. I demand that the President of Ukraine stop the attack on the rights of believers, do not interfere in internal church affairs, abide by the Constitution of Ukraine, and do not start animosity in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u158	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzior has six minutes. Boki passes the word to Grzezhev, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u159	Dear Chief, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished voters! As respectable friends, we often talk about the fact that we are declaring such a banal thesis that a nation or nation cannot have a future when it does not know its past. And when we look at our, at least, new history, and more when, at least, the history of the past century, we can say that Ukraine is trying to shape its true, true history, and it can't possibly come up with these completely honest, objective parameters of our historical walk, as I said, at least in the twentieth century. Indeed, when today, alongside the executioners who destroyed the Ukrainian elite: both the peasants of the wealthy, and the intelligence, and the humanitarian, and the technical, and the politicians, and next to those who survived, when the executioners today, the open floors for one part of the Ukrainian society are national heroes, and the true national heroes are still devoted to the Anaphems, they realized that because of this understanding of the past, we cannot seriously and fundamentally build our future. The time has come to place all the emphasis in our long - suffering history. From my point of view, it would be imperative to create a national institution, the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. Such structures have shown their great importance in shaping and defining this problem, solving this problem that I have raised. I take this opportunity to address both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, and I think that Parliament should be equally interested in creating such a National Memory Institute. He works in the Polish state, he works in Israel, and he is carrying out a tremendous number of problems that we have to deal with today. We talk a lot about illustration, and this illustration can be used to separate catholics from victims of the same Institute of National Memory. We can talk about both our past history and our present day. So for the Ukrainian State, for today’s new Ukrainian state, it is certainly necessary to be very clear at the state level, but this structure would make it clear that there was a famine and who was responsible and who was responsible. What are the repressions of the 1930s, the '40s, the '50s, and what it was, and who should be responsible for it, what role did the authorities play, what was recently changed, and what it did for the Ukrainian state, how to evaluate it, and who should be responsible for it. So I want to hope that this initiative should be taken, first of all, by the President of our State, the Prime Minister of our State and the Ukrainian Parliament. Although I understand the problems that might arise if the Ukrainian Parliament were to consider this issue, because this misunderstanding of those problems is in Parliament, when one part of the parliamentary corps still manifests what Ukraine should be terribly ashamed of and condemned in full today, it will come time and these emphasis will be placed. To that end, I am taking such an initiative and I hope that it will arouse interest in today’s Ukrainian authorities and create such an institution of national memory in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u160	Anatoly Grzezhev. Get Phydenka ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u161	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Today, many have talked about the problems of the village. Recently, I also met with the villagers of the village of Leonovka Kagarlycka district of Kiev on their initiative, where representatives of the village of Gorokhova also attended the same area. This meeting raised many issues of rural activity, including, in my view, the critical issue of State importance: the preservation of the village itself from extinction and childbirth. Located 60 miles [65 km] from the capital, the village is likened to the forgotten depth of God and power. Such an expression that civilization has surrounded them. People are justly outraged by the electoral approach to the social problems of the village and the important issue of gasification of villages. They said with great pain that they had been wronged, for they worked no less in good faith, giving their health and strength to the strengthening of their homeland than the neighbouring villages where there is gas. Undoubtedly, the people of these villages have ensured their right to a decent life through their work. In practice, however, this is not the case. I think that you will agree, that it is unfair and impossible to pursue a double policy in the State, because this is the attitude of many peasants, which is actually attributed to the people of the second class. The question is, "Why do we have different standards of living for citizens and peasants?" Could it be that it has become common for peasants to always solve the fateful problems of building and developing a powerful State in the past and the modern one? If so, such approaches are primitive. The State and society must, in the end, appreciate the role and contribution of the villagers to the State. The Socialists believe that it would be right if the Government of Ukraine considered the issue of maintaining the rural settlement network, Ibo, without solving the problem, could hardly talk about the construction and existence of the State itself as a whole. Of course, in this set of tasks, the issue of the total gasification of villages, including those I have mentioned, must find a positive solution. Please consider my statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u162	Stanislaw Phydenko. Get ready for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u163	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished radio listeners, distinguished colleagues, I want to speak on behalf of many women today on behalf of Volina, women, heroin mothers to address the many-child mothers of the Volin region to the President, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The Honourable Victor Andriyovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich and Julia Volodymyrovna address you as the mother of many children in the Volin region. In our view, it's been quite a while since the honorary title of mother hero was restored in Ukraine. However, for reasons unknown to us, many mothers, this Law is virtually ineffective. We were glad that, even though more than 10 years later, the independent Ukrainian authorities had taken the first step towards restoring a fair treatment of many children. But it is evident that our joy was premature. We are convinced that the country’s respected leaders, who know you well, do not know how easy life is now for the vast majority of the working population, but even more so, it is much more difficult for many families. The greatest suffering comes from a woman’s fate, a mother’s heart aches daily: How can we survive, provide living conditions, and raise our children? And you understand the vital need for government assistance for many families. The extremely difficult material conditions have been the main cause of a sharp decline in the number of births in Ukraine since the collapse of the Soviet Union. You know that in Ukraine, there are many places where the nations do not make their own, but they are simply passing their people into the afterlife. In many rural settlements, the reality is rather sad — everything is ruined in our eyes and nothing can be prevented. Ukraine, its society should be young, developed, not old age and decline. In the name of life in Ukraine, there is no need for State support to strengthen the foundation of society, family in general, and especially for many children. One of the important measures on this path is real implementation, not only is it a declaration of the status of the law on the honorary title of a mother hero, but it should continue to extend the social benefits to many families. We await, honourable leaders of the state, an active response to the issues raised in our address. The appeals were signed by many many mothers, the village of Pass of the Lubesztyr district, the village of Velimche Ratniv district, the Ratne Reycentre, a number of villages, and other populated areas of the region. I would consider and would like to consider my speech as a parliamentary request to the head of the government in order to speed up the development of a mechanism for the introduction of the Mother Heroin Act. As we know, the faction of the Ukrainian Company has long since made a parliamentary request, but the matter is not moving. I wish she'd hurry up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u164	Paul Silent, prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u165	Ukrainian People's Party, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Paul Movchan. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs. I came out to remind you from this rostrum that the cornerstone of our state and any form is a language ambush and a religious one. I'd like to disprove all the slanders that come to the address of the Kyiv patriarch. It's unacceptable stuff. It was precisely the right of the Ukrainian nation to exercise its free religion, its sovereign rights in its own language to expel. But given that this issue is closely related to language, I would like to say that two years ago the Supreme Council, having conducted parliamentary hearings on language issues, adopted an appropriate decision, stating that it has been said: recently, despite the legislative consolidation of the Ukrainian language of state status, the process of narrowing its sphere of application, which causes social tension in society, gives rise to separatist sentiments, conflicts with the interests of national security in Ukraine and endangers sovereignty and state self - determination. Why do I remind myself of this? Because it's recently sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, the President's decree that it's a draft decree -- and it's already been written by all ministers: Zvaricz, Voronin, Nikolainek, Kirilenko, Botrenko -- to prepare a recommendation to give the status of Russian and special. Special use, special status. Yesterday, we were able to avoid the conflict that was brought up, programmed as a dispute to cover up criminal operations in this country once again, with the smoke curtains of language curtains. I'd like to say and put an end to speculation. In 99 C.E., at the request of 45 deputies, we applied to the Constitutional Court, which gave the interpretation that the 10th article of the Constitution is the national language of Ukrainian. And it must be understood that Ukrainian as a national language is a compulsory means of communicating throughout Ukraine in the exercise of authority by government authorities and local authorities. The language of acts, jobs, business, documentation, etc. But I would like to conclude by reminding one of the correspondents that I receive every day. Mr. Volosin writes to the President, "We didn't choose you to raise our pension or our salary, we chose you to protect the Ukrainian people from destruction, from Russification, so that Ukraine would be Ukrainian. The Ukrainians who chose you are ready to eat bread and water, but that we may be masters of our land." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u166	Lilia Grigorovich has the floor. The police pass the word to Alexei, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u167	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Honorable chairman, distinguished national MPs and high-ranking voters. It has happened that the subject of all my performances today is about opposition. For 10 years I walked and looked into the eyes of my electorate and said, ‘ There will be such a time in Ukraine, and there will be such power, when they will not steal, when they will pay their pensions and salaries on time, and when the authorities will meet the people. ’ Today this authority is just about two months old. And the first steps of this authority are really to meet people. So I'm going on, because we are so violently starting today's opposition to evaluate the people's power, to inventory, to analyze and classify our opposition today. Now, my friends, have compassion. On the one hand, I understand your abstinence from the official chairs and your nostalgia behind them, and on the other hand, I think, God, how easy it is to be in opposition today -- you just have to scream enough -- faster, more, better. You left your Hammers, Land Cruisers, security. And literally recently, voters saw this kind of pink soap opera on the television screens of all the leading channels. It was called "The rich also cry, take baskets and walk on markets." On the back of a pink woman's coat, like yesterday's hope of an oligarchy of bankers, leaders of the election campaign went to the market, and they resented that prices were low. Prices went up, because so far the markets are holding them. If the purchase price for meat remained the same, and the Ukrainian farmer, who grows cattle, does not sell much more, the market price has become very high. Do you think this step has been approved by the Ukrainian voters? But there in the Vladimir market, and these were the people who were standing on the orange field, that theater, that opposition show, they almost ran a rotten tomato. But, my dears, I want to address today's opposition. Ladies and gentlemen. If you want to work in the interests of the Ukrainian people, not in the interests of the oligarchy, if you want to be a democratic, not an anti-democracy opposition, repent and separate yourself from carousel, from forgery, from fraud, from corruption. The 2006 elections are approaching. What do you think about going to the polls again by the same method? And I think you do, because today you've made a political martyr and a hero of a man who's been blackmailing and using physical threats and actions to the lives and health of many people. This is Mr. Kolesnikov. This is the third man in the Donetsk region. So, my dears, be a democratic opposition, protect democratic values and move away from your terrible anti-democratic methods, which the Ukrainian people have condemned in the election of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u168	Yes, please, Igor Alexeyev. He's handing it over to Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u169	Igor Alekseyev, faction of Ukraine. Nikolas Burakjavicus, First Secretary of the CD of the Company of Lithuania, Doctor of Historical Sciences, Professor, a man known not only in Lithuania but also throughout Europe, is now a political prisoner in prison for more than 11 years. He was convicted in 1994 on fabricated charges of treason. Parliamentarians of Ukraine, other countries, members of the European Parliament, have repeatedly appealed to the leadership of Lithuania, the President, the Prime Minister, the President of the Seima, to demand the objectivity and fairness of the release from custody of Nicolas Burakjavicus. That was the possibility in 2003. However, the relevant authorities of the Republic of Lithuania did not meet all requests, requests, requests. Nicholas Burakavichus 77 years old. While in prison, he suffered two heart attacks, and his health deteriorates every day. On 26 January 2005, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted Declaration No. 362, which was signed by parliamentarians of many countries and which literally stated, if Lithuania, indeed, is a democratic country and indeed respects human rights, it believes that the authorities of the Republic of Lithuania have an obligation to commit an act of mercy, to immediately release Nicholas Burakjavićus from custody. It's been more than two months, but no reaction. The authorities of Lithuania, the member States of NATO and the European Union, in their words unwaveringly proclaiming respect for the rights, freedoms, political beliefs of everyone, in fact grossly violating these very rights and freedoms and persecuting people for their political views, simply failed to notice Declaration 362, and Burakjavićus is once again lurking in Lithuanian riots. This may not be an accident, for the European Union has become the norm for the implementation of double standard policies. Brussels policies now determine for themselves that the attempts of the leadership of Latvia, Estonia, to overthrow the former SS is democracy. The unjust opinion of Communist Burakjavićus is also democracy, but at the same time they, the politicians from the centre of European democracy, look through their fingers at the outrageous facts of the falsification in the elections, as was the case in Ukraine in 1999, the first round of the 2004 presidential elections. This proves once again that there are two democracies in Brussels: one for the whites, the other for the blacks. For the rest of the time, please tell Mary Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u170	Please, 40 seconds Maria Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Just a month from now, we're going to celebrate the 60th anniversary of a merry, light holiday -- 9th May, Victory Day. It is a joyous festival because the Soviet people, under the direction of the Communist Party, broke the back of the Fascist Gulf, which covered more than five years of Europe with a black cloud, and brought relief to both the peoples of the Soviet Union and the European peoples. The light sum is a festival because many of the liberators gave their lives in that day, and many of them were still young, 22 million did not live to see this light festival. Each year, the ranks of the liberators are strained, and fewer and fewer are left with us. However, how blasphemous the actions of the authorities have been for a long time if the veteran of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u172	Mikola Komar. Behind him is Vladimir the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, high-ranking voters, Ukrainian citizens! A number of card problems have not been solved in the Supreme Council at this time. One of the issues that needs to be addressed is the election of a deputy head of Parliament and the leadership of a number of parliamentary committees. In this regard, the Ukrainian MP's faction considers it necessary to draw attention to a few fundamental points. First of all, we are in favour of electing a Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council in a package filled with vacancies of heads, deputies and secretaries of parliamentary committees who have had vacancies as a result of the transition of deputies to work in the executive branch. The procedure for the election of the Deputy Head of the Council and the leadership of the committees should be transparent, with the determination and alignment of the interests of all the political forces represented in Parliament. This will allow effective voting and avoid prolonged and destructive vice-spiceriad. The faction "Ukraine" also proposes that, in determining candidates for parliamentary posts that have been released, be guided by standards that are classic for democratic countries. This is when the budget, regulatory, law enforcement committees, the Committee of Informatics are anchored behind opposition factions. It is clear that this rule should be enshrined in the opposition bill and this will be done in the draft relevant law that will be passed by the regions. However, with regard to the consideration of the bill in the session room, we offer yesterday to opposition, and now to the pro-dominant factions, whose hands are named committees, to do so with good will and to support today’s opposition candidates for leadership on the committees of the Supreme Council. This will provide a basis for the opposition to cooperate with the executive branch in supporting government bills aimed at ensuring the interests of Ukrainian citizens. We stress that in the process of filling vacancies in the Supreme Council, the "Regions of Ukraine" are primarily interested, not in specific personnel, but in respect for democratic principles and respect for the rights of opposition. Supporting our proposals by the deputy corps will help ensure the effective and legislative work of the Supreme Council for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u174	Please, Vladimir Hare. After him, Migovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I'd like to make a few suggestions about what happened and comments that were not lacking in the walls of the Supreme Council today and that claimed to be the rule of law. It could be taken as the basis and the Kolesnik case, although the problem is not only that the Minister of Internal Affairs does not have professional legal education and does not know that, apart from the reasons that may be taken as a basis for determining the measure of precaution, detention or arrest, there are still three reasons for them: this person may be detained for the purpose of stopping the crime so that it does not hide itself, or let us say that it does not interfere with the investigation. Everything here is just as clear as the fact that a person cannot be deprived of his right today at 70 o’clock to sue his arrest or arrest in court. We can also talk about the forgotten business of Odessa in connection with the city’s head, Gurbitz or Bodelano, to date. I don't care who gets less loved by Bodelan or Gurvice, but let's ask the legal community whether you can ask Zvaric or Malerenka whether it's possible from another court case or, let's say, a criminal case that hasn't been concluded, where there's no court hearing, to take evidence of any legal fact in another court case and, on that basis, to decide whether they're illegal or not, or whether they've been falsified. Can a court judge in a court of law recognize another person as a mayor, unless this can be done in a different way than an election? You can certainly say that today there is an attempt to discredit the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because of the Gongadze case and the Melnicken case, you can talk about the poisoning of President Viktor Yashchenk and today, in fact, because of the charges made publicly by each of the national MPs, is the bearer of the suspicion that he was involved in this poisoning or transport of poison and so forth. Are we really talking about a democratic and legal state? Moreover, today everything is described as a fight against crime and the rule of law, like a fight against good and bad. Today, society again divides into this water division. At the same time, however, the new authorities forget about the social budget today, which unfortunately does not pay pensions according to the standards laid down by law, which are today co-sponsors who cannot claim either morality or legality. We can talk about political persecutions that are not lacking today, or even in general about the 2005 budget. And think of what Mr. Terjohin said when he was in the United States, that the adoption of Ukraine's budget had taken away more than forty problems that were a hindrance to its entry into WTO. So what did the Ukrainian budget become a hostage? So to conclude, honourable voters, I want to say that today there is no fight here between evil and good, it is the political cleansing of its opponents before the 2006 parliamentary elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u176	John Mihovich has the word. To prepare, Masenko passes the word, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u177	Thank you. Today, respected colleagues and voters, the international progressive society celebrates the Day of Roma. The representatives of this self - centered, unique, and long - suffering nation are now on the verge of survival. Where is the greatest unemployment, poverty, disease, begging, superstition? In the Roma environment. As part of the country's 10 most populous ethnic communities, they have the last place at the level of social self-esteem, education, and the index of human development. How brutally their civil rights and freedoms are being violated. So I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers for the following: first, to support the initiative of a number of central European countries on the Roma Decade by 2015. Second, to begin the preparation of a new comprehensive program for the restoration of the Roma of Ukraine. Thirdly, to put in place the necessary legislation to fully implement the civil rights and life needs of Roma, employment, education, health care, social protection, etc. Fourth, gradually transform public opinion into a tolerant, kind attitude toward Roma, as is done in civilized countries around the world. The fifth, without waiting for another population census, to conduct a objective statistical study of real numbers and the situation of Roma, to correct socio-demographic policies, since many Roma have about 100,000, but many are not recorded because of fear of discrimination. These proposals please consider my deputy's address, a request to the Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers, Timoshenko. I call on MPs, governors, politicians. The entire democratic community of the country to be overwhelmed by the problem, to do everything possible to ensure that the Roma brothers do not feel discrimination, contempt, image and other superstitions, so that there are no shameful manifestations of racism and xenophobia in the Ukrainian society. We Communists have consistently fought for the international integration of workers, social equality and justice, for humane relations between people. So do not abuse your authority with the patience and trust of the Roma! May these smog, temperate, and talented people become full citizens of our many. the country will live richly, with dignity and freedom, making a significant contribution to the creation of a powerful socialist Ukraine. With the International Day of the Roma, you respected compatriots!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u178	Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u179	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Honorable colleagues, respected TV sets, and radio audiences Yesterday and today you and I witnessed the so - called Kolesnik case as two clans flocking together. That's what you were warned about, the entire people of Ukraine, the Communist Party of Ukraine. They were in charge of blue and white, and they were putting pressure on the future oranges. Now the oranges are in power and they're in revenge just like that, and that's what they do in terms of blue and white. People, when you see things. That's why, as a deputy, I have to deal with the case of the poisoning of President Yushchenk of Ukraine. I am addressing the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Mr. Piscoun Svetoslav Mikhajlovich, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. Turkinov Aleksandra Valentinović, head of the interim investigating commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of poisoning candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Mr. Yuschenk Viktor Andrivović, Mr. Sovkovic Leonid Vladimirovich, with a question of the need to establish the status of citizenship of Mr. Mikoli Korpan from September 2004, the personal doctor of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian National Deputy, and now the President of Ukraine, Mr. Viktor Andryovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, my request is printed, I'll pass it on to the secretariat, and the rest of the time, please give it to my colleague Marcus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u180	Please, Mark Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u181	Dear radio listeners, I apologize for the lack of time. I'll go on with my opinion. Less and less remain in our ranks of liberation veterans. However, how blasphemous the actions of officials who have long claimed to be veterans are, as rewarded orders and medals by decree of the President, that they cannot obtain these orders and medals because there are not enough rewards to be produced in connection with financial difficulties. I read with pain the words of one of the veterans of the Homeland War. "I don't think the presidents have the right to deceive us, the people who brought the burden of that cursed war on their shoulders. I'm 81 years old, and I've been waiting for a reward for five years. There are few of us left, and by May 9, there will be more than one out of life. It's offensive to lose faith in people who are burdened with such trust, and I don't want to get to the number of those who are rewarded in death." I'm adding a veteran's letter to the request, and I'm asking that my statement be considered a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u182	Thank you. Please, one minute, Player. One minute, please don't argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u183	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters. It is well known that a joint statement was signed during the visit of Yushchenko to the United States, which contains, I quote, "we also undertake to work together in support of the promotion of freedom and in countries such as Belarus and Cuba." Everyone knows what this is about, these two States. For example, Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Iran and so on, Iraq. Our faction made statements regarding both the Republic of Cuba and the Republic of Belarus. On the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we discussed this issue as the first Vice-Chairman I am. And the representatives of all factions have all agreed that this is at least what was said to be the famous diplomat, Oleg Belarus, at least a slap from the group of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that prepared and carried out the visit. In this regard, allow me to read out the request. Dear Mr. President, it's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u184	Thank you. Ask for it, we'll make it legal. Please, just one minute, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u185	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. From this rostrum, I asked the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to explain what it meant to hold various levels of MPs from all over the country. The answer that came to me at the signature of Mr. Zajczuk is completely dissatisfaction with me. Today, as senior officials of the State grossly disregard the Constitution, in particular by 120 articles, 78 articles of the Constitution, and there are 32 officials, neither the President of Ukraine nor the Prime Minister influences them. We have come to the conclusion that there will be no politically responsible authority -- no President, no one will pay any attention to us. We have information that these congregations will address the issue of the distinction between changes and the introduction of the Constitution, that is, the polytreform. I'm talking again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't know if that's the right information. If your forum is the beginning of political reform, our Parliament will not be adorned. Give me a meaningful answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-08-m0.u186	Yes, dear fellows, we're running out of time. We've even taken over. I inform you that April 12th at the morning meeting is the day of the Ukrainian government's 19th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster." On April 13, at 11 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings on "The Prospects for Public Broadcasting in Ukraine". On April 13-15, National MPs work in committees, factions and groups. The plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on April 19. And the questions that have been asked here, the proposals of the people's deputies, I ask the Secretariat to form them accordingly. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
