ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:25]] There are 350 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is our birthday, the 45th anniversary of our new colleague from the new replenishment, the new old colleague, because he was already a member of the previous vocations, Mikhail Zjijenova. Let's welcome our colleague with this half-serious date in his life. So are we going to be spending Government Day or not? Dear colleagues, you can see how much we break spears when we define the subject when we look, and each committee wants to spend two and three days not one day of government. When we're looking for windows to run. And all of this turns out, our fight ends without a start. We are only fighting to put into the order of the day a matter that the committee believes is burning. After that question is included in the agenda, after you and I are violating all the canons we've accepted, because, for example, parliamentary hearings usually have to be held once a month, we are now probably just as much as we are holding parliamentary, sessional sessions. Then the interest drops. That's one thing. The other one. Since we've already started with this, I'm again and again addressing the committees, absolutely to all the committees. When you are preparing for Government Day, please ask, there is a position on Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's all clearly written here. In fact, you plan virtually all the committees of Government Day as parliamentary hearings, reports, reports, reports, and so forth. It's not the fault of today's committee, I'm looking at Hennadi Borisovich, it's the trouble of all of our committees that we've gone a little bit different from the tradition that's written down in these positions. That's one thing. And the second. So before we start, I do, and I don't see those who were written here, for example, today we're asked to have one of the correspondents or government speakers be the head of the Court of Auditors and the Human Rights Commissioner. They are not members of the government, they have no relation to Government Day. Today, on Government Day, only those authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers and only national MPs and only national MPs have the right to speak at any session. I'm gonna say it again. There will be a request, then those who wish, the head of the Court of Auditors will speak, authorized by human rights, I'll put it on the decision of the session room, and then we'll be informed if there's a session room ready, we'll listen to their speeches. But unfortunately, the honourable colleagues, especially the heads of the professional committees, I ask you, in the coming days of the government, we will be guided by this position, which is approved by the Supreme Council, and here everything is said to be written down. So I remind you that according to the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council today, there will be another government day. By a decree of February 3, the Supreme Council defined the issue of the Government Day of the 19th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster: the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The problem, as you can see, is pretty hot for a lot of our population. And I think there is now a direct broadcast of our Government Day, and perhaps I would like to show the government's bed of attention to this issue, and to show the session hall today as the national electorate, who sometimes tear their shirts off and protect those or other categories to see how these categories actually, what fact fact factions care about it and how they feel about it and how they want to solve these issues. I'd like our voters to see that today. Ivan Aleksandrovich, you will be noticed, you are a well - known blacksmith, there is no doubt. Now for the government. We were supposed to have a fairly high representation, but right now, literally, just before we went to you, we were informed that the minister had been sick in the emergency situation of Zwania. Well, it could be, now they say, quite a flu, the last of its sprouts are coming. It may be that the Headman himself is not feeling well enough. Therefore, it is suggested that we be informed by the Head of the State Committee on the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster instead of the Minister of Emergency Situations. And, accordingly, co-reporters will be Minister of Labour and Social Policy Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich and Minister of Fuel and Energy Ivan Vasilovich Plačkov. This is determined by the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. It is proposed that we give the Head of the State Committee the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster to 15 minutes. Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Minister of Fuel and Energy for 7 minutes. After the performances, each of them will be able to answer the written and oral questions of the national MPs within 30 minutes. After that, because, once again, we're going to be as the committee suggests today, we're not going to change, I'm just going to address the committee heads in the future, and then we're going to listen to Rudenko Hennady Borisovich's profile committee within 15 minutes, and then we're going to talk to you about the problem. They're going to ask for words, as I said before, the head of the Court of Auditors and the Commissioner for Human Rights -- then I'm going to put it in the definition of the session room. We also have a request, but I do not yet see those who have requested a request that on behalf of the Special Investigation Commission that we have created a commission. Now I'm going to tell you how we have it: A temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council to verify the effectiveness of the activities of the public authorities in addressing the complex of issues related to the exit of the Chernobyl AES from operation, the implementation of a plan of action on the “Hidden” site and in the alienation zone, on the handling of radioactive wastes. The commission's head is Osik's national deputy. If he is, I think we're after the report, co-reported by the head of the profile committee also for 10 minutes we'll allow the head of this committee to speak if he does, but, I see, there's only desire. Well, and unfortunately, fortunately, according to established tradition, every session we have right now, the sessionary session of the Supreme Council begins with a faction asking for a recess. The purpose of the recess announcement is to understand which: to make a statement. Now this time it's being asked to do it together with the region of Ukraine. Please, who, three minutes, made a statement. Shufrich. Mikhail Vasilovich, I understand you, but Government Day is just called "Government Day," but it's one of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council, and. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Strange but very confusing things are happening in Ukraine. Let me remind you of the facts. First. The senior leaders of the state claim that the Gongadze case is fully solved. [[In your paws, I'm afraid.]] We see in the dry remains General Kravchenko, who was considered one of the most important witnesses, died. Nothing is known about the state of affairs in this case. We're told stories about suicide, information is being spread that the perpetrators of the murder were detained and confessed, but no one has seen their lawyers who, by the way, should have protested the President's statement that he had already declared them criminals. The other one. In Odessa, a local court takes a decision that lawyers do not even comment on. In doing so, the judge refuses to accept a letter from the head of the Supreme Court requiring that the case be referred to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. After all this insolent disregard of the law in Odessa, the tent city of protestors is severely shaken. In this activity and unknown to date, the police accompanied them. Third. The head of the district council of Donetsk is lured into Kiev for questioning in political affairs, and then arrested for demanding action. The graves on the cemetery, the explosions, the torn-off legs, are not enough just for scratches, and tomorrow all of this turns out to be a complete fiction. There are already people who have been declared injured by the minister, and they say, unfortunately, their father has really lost his toes, but because of the gangrene. We feel for him, but where are the bombs and the explosions? They do not even know that they were persecuted by the Kolesniks. They continue to abuse a lawyer who is denied the right to work with a client. By the way, this is the same lawyer who was in charge of the Gongadze case and who was defending Feldman in the famous case of the Slovenian Bank. And the Kyiv Council, which only yesterday was sheltered by orange demonstrators, is going to prosecute those who are taking action against the militia's will now. We claim that there is now an authoritarian repressive regime in Ukraine, and it is created by those people who have come to power in a wave of protest against them by the fictional authoritarianism of Kuchma. I remind you that nothing like the past has been done by the authorities, or most of today’s authorities at the time of the election would be in prison for committing specific crimes. In protest against the illegal actions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Prosecutor's Office, we were going to block the rostrum today, but we refused because they had to deal with the very painful issues of Chernobyl victims. We ask Yushchenk to demand the responsibility of Henprocuror and Minister of Internal Affairs, otherwise the question arises: "What is this about, the perversions in places and the riot of the police and the prosecutor's office or the state policy of preparing for mass political repression, the execution of the order of the President himself, who said that all opponents should be in prison?"
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! We heard a statement. Now we move on to the order of today's government day. I invite the Head of the State Committee on the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Mr. Alexander Georgievic. Please, 15 minutes, then 30 minutes - answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable national deputies, liquidators, all suffering from the Chernobyl disaster, who are watching and listening to us! For 19 years, the pain caused by our people, one of the world’s world’s most technological radiation catastrophes, has been uncontrollable. And the problems it creates do not lose their focus and relevance. People, their fates, their lives, their health, their social, their radiation, their health, their health, their health, and their health were, are, and will continue to be, objects of special attention to our nation. On these April days, by giving tribute to our memory, we bow our heads low to those who, 19 years ago, deliberately and sacrificingly gave their lives to those who performed their ultimate sonly debt to our family. Earth, the people, stopped the escalation of the disaster. Dear National Deputies! Now, according to the established tradition, it would be wise to say that the government, central and local executives, despite the enormous difficulties and shortages of resources, have done everything they can to make every black person feel the benefit of the work. Yet I will not do so for a number of reasons. First, it wouldn't be fair about the Chernobyls, secondly, the government has to report for what it hasn't done, and the State Committee actually created only works for the third month in the face of one head of this committee and has no authority to perform its duties. Thirdly, the decision of the Government, which handed over a number of budget programmes to fund measures related to the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, has destroyed several major funds managers with a stable system of comprehensive protection of affected citizens and territories. This has led to a variety of speculations about the painful problems, the ripples and the variety of shares of its expression. In addition, the destruction of the liquidators, the cooling of the hero from the feat they performed, should be added. The government, by which I speak, may have rectified this position. Some programs are returned to the Ministry, but to the right they should be brought to a logical conclusion. We are deeply convinced that the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster should be tackled in a single design and in a single centre, coming from real, perceived needs and clearly marked priorities, so that from a continuous accumulation of problems to a tangible reduction. I would like to point out that the Chernobyl problem, especially in the area of life’s interests and the health of victims, is not tolerated by experiments, volunteerism, and political speculation. So the innovation of travel purchases has led to a significant delay in the recovery process, and the exclusion of the local sanatorium base has prevented a large number of Chernobyl disabled people from being cured. Almost 3,000 trips were returned to the Ministry last year at the end of the year. In all, 133 thousand people, including more than 108 thousand children, were healed. It's much less than any previous year. The process of moving, providing housing for the victims, and capital construction was barely warm. Last year, only 278 families were provided with housing, with 25,000 families of displaced persons with disabilities and 22,000 liquidators. The trend of disability among the Chernobyl population has continued to increase almost twice since 1996, largely due to the victims and insufficiently adjusted procedures for establishing a causal link between the disease and the consequences of the accident. There is a shortage of medicines, supplies, compensation, lost property, unused travel, and so forth. For more than a year, legislation has not been fully implemented. The practice of putting an end to a number of articles of the law has been established, although this has been avoided in the current year. The year 2005 is little different from the year before. Budget funding for Chernobyl programmes will only ensure their implementation by 17 percent. So, as before, we will have to focus only on the priorities of life. With a view to enhancing the effectiveness of public policy in coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the State Committee, within the framework of the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has foreseen and is already implementing a number of concrete steps aimed at improving legislation, particularly in the area of minimizing the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, changing the legal regime and integrated socio-economic development of areas that have been subject to radioactive pollution and cities of compact displacement. This is an urgent need, since today the population of 1,330 populace will not test the dose levels above 0.5 millisiberts per year. The organization of pensions and benefits and compensations, based on the size of the minimum of living, the order of health care and medical care for the victims, is an immediate solution to the issue of unfinished construction. That's what we have today, 1276. The issue of environmental sustainability and the production of clean agricultural products is not overlooked. dosimetric monitoring of the area of radioactive pollution zones, order in the direction of radioactive wastes, and strengthening the barrier functions of the alienation zone. By the way, in the alienation zone, the main problem is that the plans for the production teams of the Ministry are supported by a stable radio-ecological situation, no emergencies allowed. In addition, the Chernobyl alienation zone also solves promising problems of handling radioactive wastes across Ukraine, builds a launch complex of the Vector Radioactive Waste Recycling and Burying Centre and implements this year's program, and all necessary infrastructure objects will be put into operation. Issues of international cooperation will be highlighted, particularly in the context of the UN programme "The Chernobyl Programme for Reconstruction and Development" and recent arrangements from MAGATE and the United States. I think a powerful impetus to the international community's interest in overcoming the Chernobyl disaster will be the result of a work trip to the United States by President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka of Ukraine. In short, we yearn for a grateful understanding of our compassion and understanding of our problems, for a practical fulfillment of our compassion and understanding. This will be expressed in international support for new approaches to overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, mobilizing resources to implement programmes and projects to minimize, regenerate and develop affected regions. Much work is to be done in preparation for the twentieth anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, which is planned to hold an international conference with the participation of many foreign nations, international organizations, and world leaders in radiology. We think that its recommendations will be a strategy for overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for the next decade. We will make an effort to make changes to the State budget in order to increase the cost of medical care for victims, free nutrition for children, housing, ecological recovery for areas and other programs. At the same time, we will increase our control over the spending of every penny allocated to Chernobyl problems so that no one will want to speculate and profit from Chernobyl. Ladies and gentlemen, in the process of preparing for Government Day in the Supreme Council, we took a look at draft regulations on the subject. In solidarity with all conclusions and recommendations, they would ask for a more balanced approach to the deadlines for carrying out the planned measures, especially parts of the drafting of the bills. We would also like to accelerate the adoption of the National Programme for the Reduction of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster 2006-2011. In preparation for the State Budget for the following year, the funding of Chernobyl programmes will be determined in its scope. In completing the report, I would like to stress that, by analyzing and critically assessing the situation in the Chernobyl area, the government and the ministry, the State Committee are taking on the courage to solve the accumulated problems and finally to give the Chernobylites a sense of respect and concern, to feel that the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is working on them. I am sure that the discussion of the question will be acute, emotional, but we are ready to do so, and we will be grateful for the constructive criticism and suggestions, regardless of the tone in which they sound, because safe life, health, the welfare of the Ukrainian people is our common concern. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u5	Thank you, Alexander Georgievich. Please sign up for the questions. Yes, we have 30 minutes of oral and written questions. Let's do it in writing. Do you have it, Alexander Georgievich? Please start by writing. In the meantime, let's get this straight. Speak in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u6	Vasil Georgievovich Hara is head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. Question: "What steps have the States taken to improve the quality of medical care for the victims of the Chernobyl disaster?" I've already talked about and I'd like to say that this is really an important question, and it is a problem for today. At the same time, last year, 43 million people were involved in this problem. 390 thousand. That's right. These funds were aimed at providing additional care to affected citizens, except for the provision of state free medical care. Nearly 50 victims received valuable surgery in high - level treatment facilities outside the regions. In order to strengthen the material base, 311 units of modern medical equipment were installed in 149 specialised treatment facilities. The Ukrainian law already provides 53 million dollars for this year. 390 thousand. That's 23 percent more than last year. And hopefully, in fact, these costs will also be aimed at improving the health care of the Chernobyl population.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u7	Yes. Please, Orzhachovsky Anatoly, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u8	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear reporter, I ask you to answer two questions that concern Chernobyl's problems. First. Don't you think you're hasty in the decision of the Supreme Council today to call the liquidation of the Supreme Council's High Council profile committee on Chernobyl? Second, after the accident at CHAES, there was a question of the treatment and recovery of children both in the middle of our country and abroad. While in the United States, Mr. Yushchenko, thinking more about the so-called "freedom" for Cuba and Belarus, practically refused to cooperate with this issue of Ukraine and Cuba. As you think. How do you appreciate the President's action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u9	Well, I'd like to say that first question. The first question is, the creation of the Supreme Council committees is purely the competence of the Supreme Council itself, and how it deals with these issues depends on it. In my opinion, the person who is dealing with this problem right now, I would like to say that, of course, we would like to have a responsible committee that is directly involved in these matters. That's clear. As far as purely political matters are concerned, please let me not answer this question, because I am the representative of the executive body and therefore to assess the President, unfortunately, I do not want to do so. I would simply like to say that it is in Cuba that the Ministry of Health is directly involved in the recovery of children. Neither the Ministry nor the State Committee deals with these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u10	Yes, please, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u11	The second question is also from Vasil Georgievovich Hari: "How big are the financial and financial payments made to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on affected citizens and territories?" I want to say that the amount of compensation paid to affected citizens is provided for by the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and today determined by Cabinet of Ministers of 26 July 1996 as of the year 836. Since 1996, these sizes have not changed, and at this time we have been commissioned by the government, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Emergency Situations are carrying out calculations on the possible increase in these amounts within the 2005 funds. Clearly, this is only done within the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u12	Please, Basil Potapov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u13	Okay. Here's what I'd like to ask you. Last year, 2004, the Government found an opportunity, and Parliament supported the total funding of social programmes in Chernobyl, exceeding two billion dollars in griven. It's been practically calculated over the past few years. By forming shifts to the budget, the government has drastically reduced funding. Please tell me what the Ministry has done to, first of all, in the Cabinet of Ministers to establish that figure as a basic figure? And what are you going to do now to make sure that the amount of funding doesn't go down? Over the past four years, we have seen an unprecedented decline in the trend towards increased funding as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u14	Let me answer your question this way. As a direct participant in these processes, as a deputy minister, the fact that last year has actually increased the attachment to debt payments that have taken place over the past six years, which have occurred in our state for the Chernobylites. And last year, really, these costs were paid, unfortunately, not even to the full, because some of the debt went away for this year. But these funds were removed from the main budget programmes that led the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The cost of recovery was drastically reduced, and the cost was added again in the end. The other programs that were in the knowledge had been cut off. So in today's speech, when I reported, I was talking about that we have to move on to a more orderly, clear-cut program that we have to do, so that we can really tell people who are waiting for real action from our state, that we need to take one program once and for all and in this program to write and remove all the questions. Every year we don't have to stand here in front of you and ask for more, let's go there. There's a state program, a programme that's prepared, and it needs to be adopted in a second reading, taking into account the proposals that have now taken place over time, and we can do this task and government much easier, and the very basic law that is before the Chernobylites.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u15	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u16	"What a participation of international organizations -- concrete actions, examples -- in coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster!".. "What measures have the State taken to involve international organizations in cooperation in the relevant sphere?" This is also a question of Vasil Grigorovich Hari. One of the main areas of cooperation between the United Nations and Ukraine is the implementation of the Chernobyl Revival and Development Programme today with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. As part of this program, our country today has established and operates centres for social psychological rehabilitation and for informing the population about the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Last year, according to the Chernobyl Programme, 43 agreements were made with the local communities of Kyivsk, Žitomirsk, Ravensk, and Chernigiv. As part of the Ministry's cooperation and the International Atomic Energy Agency, MAGATE has been implementing a regional project since 2002 entitled "A strategy for planning long-term counter-measures and controlling the radiation of people in rural areas affected by the Chernobyl accident", which has been planned for 3 years. In 2003, the International Chernobyl Forum, which is scheduled for two years, was set up to prepare clear and unified conclusions on the radiological impact on public health and the environment of areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster, as well as ways of overcoming their minimization. In all these matters from the Ministry, we take an active part, we represent Ukraine, and we are actively working today. These are the programs that are in our department. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u17	Please, Alexander Zarubinski. Oleg, I'm sorry, Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u18	Thank you. I'll make it clear. Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear reporter! You know, and we know very well that to date, the problem of the further fate of children who are 18 years old and who have been on a dissipation basis as black people remains unresolved. Official medicine, and this is also known to all, admits up to 90 percent of them to be ill as a result of accidents or have been indirectly affected. What will happen to these children at the age of 18? How will the State take care of them and carry out medical escorts? Would it not happen that by removing them from the victims, the State would appear that there were no problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. Indeed, it is very often raised today, and if you look at the problem from the victims, there is indeed a misunderstanding of why this person had suffered before he was 18 years old, and after 18 years he could no longer be injured. And we also have questions about that. I think it should only be regulated by legislation, because today this is the law, and we are working within this legislation. I think that if this draft bill is initiated by the people's deputies, we are ready to consider it and take an active part in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u20	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u21	The following question. Is the government anticipating and how much increase: (a) compensation for the average cost of travel to persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The answer is yes. To date, the Ministry has prepared and forwarded to the central executive authorities a draft decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve payment of the average cost of travel in the event of a self-organization of sanatorium treatment or rest by citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, which provides for compensation of the average cost of travel. And in this regard, the second paragraph of this question is: monthly financial assistance for children of all ages who are not in full national detention. I would like to ask this question, because the Ministry is running accounts for a possible increase today, obviously in the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u22	Please, John Boki, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u23	Dear reporter! I want to ask you a question that doesn't seem to be part of the problem of dealing with the consequences of Chernobyl, but because of the Chernobyl spark, it could become a multi-dimensional problem for Ukraine. I'm talking about the problem of the Kyiv Academy, the actual problem of beryllium. Today it has been dumped on Kiev’s shoulders, but as you know, the enterprise created to solve the beryllian problem is not financed. Here is Mr. Matthewchuk, deputy finance minister, who should clarify this situation, and as a specialist, I would like to ask you, did Chernobyl not teach us anything that we would like to place a neutron bomb under Ukraine? Do you think the state has to act so that this bomb doesn't explode, and the threat is, as scientists say, quite real, even too real?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. Believe me, I, as a person, understandably care about this question, too, clearly. Because, in fact, the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant has shown the world that big conclusions are made today. The better it is to invest money today in security measures, some solid sum of money, so that millions of times as much money can be spent on overcoming the consequences, clearly. So this example today teaches the whole world, the entire civilized world of governments, the governments of the whole world, what needs to be done as much as possible to prevent emergencies, and that's why I support you on these issues. Like a man dealing with the consequences of a Chernobyl disaster in a polluted territory, the alienation zone, of course, goes beyond the scope of competence, personally. I'm not familiar with this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u25	Ivan Sidorovich, you've completely disarmed, and what is to explode in us? Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u26	What steps are being taken by the Government to provide housing for the victims and liquidators of the Chernobyl disaster? As a result of the funds allocated from the state budget for the implementation of the Chernobyl-building programme, housing is being built to move citizens out of the area of unconditional, compulsory relocation. Because of the limited resources allocated in recent years to the programme, housing for this category of citizens remains extremely acute. On January 1, this year, an additional 814 families remain in the area of unconditionally compulsory eviction. To complete their migration from previous data, more than 63 million dollars are needed. Only 15 million dollars are available for the organization of the Chernobyl construction program itself in 2005. Taking into account the financial possibilities, this year it is projected that 5 million dollars will be spent on building housing that will provide housing for more than 30 families, primarily those who are children and who are disabled today. And according to the State Budget Act 2004 of 1 January last year, the housing programme was transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and allocated 50 million dollars to finance it. Nearly 39 million coins were funded and received, and 237 families received housing. At the same time, I reiterate to you the need for a home of 24 thousand and 972 families today. And for this program, which is foreseen for 50 million dollars this year, if you need 3.5 billion dollars, that is to say, it's a total financial provision of 1.4 percent. So we're not going to solve this problem again and we're going to drag on for years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u27	Please, Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u28	Thank you. Your Honor, I'd like to address you, you know, with this question about the healing of children from the Chernobyl area. Because last year, in recent years, healing took place in a very interesting way. Tender committees were held, as usual, in a secret and not entirely transparent manner. Tenders for the recovery of children were won at some rural holiday houses near the sea, about 60 kilometers [60 km] by the sea, showers in a nearby village, and a dining room in another village. Child support conditions were worse than during the Stalin concentration camps. I'd like to know if this year's tenders are going to happen the same way or not? Whether the children will continue to be cured by rural rest homes that have bought a second category without even offering basic maintenance conditions for children, not that it is a matter of recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. I said in my speech that this was really a problem last year, and confirming really your speech is it. The point is that with the coming of the Ministry’s leadership, a fundamental step has been taken to provide the public with some transparency in carrying out these measures. The tender committee includes representatives of public organizations who actively participated in the tender. I mean, today it's not open, it's not open this year, because it really is. Today, all the sanatoriums that have come out as winners are published in the press, and for the general public, which can see which sanatoriums have come out as winners. I would also like to point out that almost ten health - care facilities that were seriously complained about last year did not become winners this year, and they were denied these issues to continue to do so. We hope that the conclusions are still made, and the work is being done to improve the situation. And the numbers themselves speak for themselves. If a total of 132 thousand people were healed last year, nearly 190 trips per 190,000 people were purchased this year. In addition to the recent changes to the budget, the State Budget provides for additional purchases of travel.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u30	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u31	Mikhail Vasilovich Loboda. The question is. As a program for building, equipping, and providing health - care facilities in radioactively polluted areas and in areas where victims are evacuated, funds are provided. Over the past four years, seven specialized medical facilities have been built in Donetsk, Gitomirsk, Kiev, Ravenska, and Chernigiv areas for 283 beds and nine clinics in Volinsk, Kiev, Ravensk, and Chernigiv for 1,065 visits. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u32	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u33	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The honourable report, the problem of Chernobyl, the elimination of its consequences is not only a problem for Ukraine, but a global partnership that promised us some help. Please tell me, for this year, the nations that join the Great Seven will spend some money at least on the Hidden Project? That's the first question. In 2002-2005, the construction work of the external engineering network is expected to be completed and so on. Can you tell at what stage of these works? And tell me, please, this project of stabilizing the consolidation of the “Storage” structure, which aims to create a new one., to dismantle some of the most unstable structures of the sarcophagus and to remove fuel-efficient materials, it has a real opportunity to implement this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u34	Let me answer your question this way. According to the competence of our Ministry and the State Committee, the territory of the alienation zone is within the competence of our Ministry, and the object-Crnobyl Nuclear Power Plant, which is part of the Department of Fuel and Energy, is within the competence of the Ministry of Energy. And all the issues related to this issue apply to this ministry. I think there's going to be an opportunity to answer that question to the minister who's here. So I'm sorry. It's not our jurisdiction. And the question of help. Eight of them. The issue is also a matter for the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. As for the “Hiddenness” object, it goes through them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u35	Yes, please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u36	The following question is, "What measures have been taken to provide health care and household services for self-employed people living in an alien zone? Health care, clean food, drinking water, etc." This is exactly the question that belongs to the competence of our ministry. The answer is this: To date, two FAPs in the villages of Kupuwat and Ilyinka are in place for self - care in the alien zone. In their residences, periodic visits to the village of the medical brigade of the special health-care unit, which is located in the alienation zone. The provision of medicines and the provision of emergency medical care for self - care for today is free of charge at the expense of our ministry’s program, which self - drinkable water can be obtained from wells of general use that are controlled and repaired as necessary, that every week people receive the goods of primary need — bread, dairy products, bread, sugar, and other environmentally friendly products. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u37	Please, Anatoly Rahansky, Democratic Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u38	Dear Alexander Grigorovich, would you please tell me whether your committee will act like this or not? How many ministries and authorities are working today to eliminate the consequences of an accident? What kind of department is in charge of them, and why did your ministry run a tender to provide travel for Chernobyl children only in the April months of the year? And the following is your attitude toward the treatment of children in Cuba? Instead of treating them in the Eupatoria, where Cuban specialists are working in the International Friendship Sanatorium, there are all the conditions, and I really liked that when we came from Cuba, our health minister said, "What are we doing?" Your attitude on this matter. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. Why is the question so important to me? Because, as head of the State Committee, I am only a third month, indeed, appointed as head of this department, at the same time I have. I don't have the leverage to run these processes today, even though the committee itself was created by the President's decree last July. And obviously that's the problem. Today, there are three structures: the past Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection, the new Ministry of Emergency Situations and the State Committee. Clearly, in these circumstances, we are looking for ways to do optimally and in some way the quality of our tasks that we face. To date, I would like to point out that there is a government decision on this issue. According to paragraph 1, paragraph 2 of Protocol No. 3 of February 12 of this year's government meetings, the State Committee's decision to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster eliminates it and its functions are to be eliminated by the Ministry of Emergency Situations. And the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the President's draft decree, which, by the way, has not yet been adopted to date, is to take over the functions of the State Committee and the Ministry of Emergency Situations. So today we're in a state of reorganization of a state organization. Clearly, this has a negative impact, to some extent, on both financial flows today and on the provision of such programs. Believe me, the recovery issue last year was carried out practically at the end of April, and this year it was done at the end of March, because changes to the State Budget were being prepared -- and it was kind of a delay in that issue. But I don't see for today that it somehow affects the delay in the main measures to be taken by healing, because all the work starts at the end of the month after recovery. And today we have to, with the sanatoriums closing contracts, and the district government and the Kyiv city administration at the end of the month will be shown a schedule and number of these routes to enable them to order the corresponding tickets and to receive funds for the transport of children. Regarding treatment issues in Cuba, I've already mentioned that this is the competence of our ministry, but I know today that the Cuban side is actually healing our children for free, and the appropriate fund that deals with this matter is paying, the non-state fund is paying for the transfer of these children to Cuba. Well, of those, once again, what I'm saying is that of those programs, of those funds that are being allocated this year for recovery, the principle is that everybody knows that 50 percent of the funds are going to the local state administration knowledge base, 25 percent are going to the drinking sanatoriums, this is the carpentry side and the center of Ukraine, and 25 percent of the funds are going to be for the recovery of children in the southern part of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u40	Thank you. But, Anatoly Bartholomew, you have an appropriate question. Cubans are being treated for free or in Feodosia they will be doing so for free. I don't think so. In the Eupatoria. Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u41	Questions from Vladimir Anatoliovich Demjochin. What system document shows the implementation of Ukraine's legislation on comprehensive solutions to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The answer is yes. The basis of the social protection legislation is laid down in the Ukrainian Act of 28 February 1991, number 796, entitled "On the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster". It is by this law that the basic provisions for the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens who have suffered to protect their lives and health are laid down in the only order for determining the status of the injured. Following the adoption of the law, the State has been widely engaged in the development and implementation of regulations for the implementation of the definition of requirements and regulations and, above all, the definition of the status of injured persons. Every year, the ministry prepares information and guidance on the state of implementation of legislation on comprehensive solutions to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and I've been presented with a full analysis of the implementation of Chernobyl legislation. And it's handing out to you, and this year it's done the same way. In addition, there is an annual report on the state of technological, natural security in Ukraine for a year in which there is an informational and analytical chapter on the state of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u42	Please, Vladimir Leschenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u43	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Alexander Georgievich! Unfortunately, we have not heard from your mouth a meaningful report from the government on the state and situation surrounding the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. You've practically made a report, and it turns out to be lame, inconsequential, not what the voters and the population of Ukraine expected. But it was optimistic that the U.S. there was some kind of mind-blowing perspective. I would like to ask such questions in this regard. First. What help did the United States provide for us throughout the 19 years of eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and what do they promise to provide for the future? And the second. What are the intentions of the committee to narrow down the areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. I spoke in my speech about what the problem was, there is and remains, and I called the causes of problems that haven't been solved in years. And the main reason is that the current law is not being implemented and cannot be implemented because of the lack of State funding for these programs. And no matter how much I tell you here what you can do, how you can do it, until there's really confirmed government funding, clearly, the Chernobyls will not feel the fulfillment of this law. That's clear. And you're right here, and I support you. As far as international aid is concerned, I am. With regard to the programs that the State Committee is running today, these programs are not to be followed. There's no such thing as help. The question as a whole, which is run by the Ministry, as well as the Chernobyl issues, is indeed a question. One of them is within MAGATE, which goes under the auspices of the United Nations, where the United States of America is one of the donors, there are adequate programs of living and living, and there are many programs that have already been implemented, I said that they are still working today. These are allocated the corresponding costs within the framework. The International Chernobyl Forum is being held, and funds are also being allocated. The United Nations program in Ukraine, I called it, was only last year that almost 2 million dollars were sent to polluted areas for communities living in polluted areas. I mean, every year costs are, well, trust me, these costs. I didn't set myself up to talk about all of our issues being solved overseas, we'll talk about investment. There must be help. There's the main object that our nation is working on today, it's still a dangerous object, it's a Hidden object, and that's where the funds are going. It's "Hidden." And the Department of Fuel and Energy on this issue can give you a more detailed answer. We are dealing with the rehabilitation of areas, the rehabilitation of people affected, the minimization of radiation, and the impact of radiation on human health. These are the questions behind us. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u45	Territory? Today. I'm telling you, there's been a population passport. According to this passport of the population, we're talking about that part of today, a large part of the population where people live, they have a dose of exercise on the body means, today, on those criteria that are set in our state, that do not correspond very much to the criteria that are defined to have actual territory. However, I would like to say that this is a question that I am quite balanced about. Because this issue has yet to be widely discussed, that is, in the circles of scholars. In the project, by the way, the Supreme Council's ruling is that there's one point to do a dosimetric passporting of the entire territory, a complete field transporterization. And then it's possible to make decisions. Yet there is a prepared law, a draft law on. The mode of matching the information that is. This bill of the Law has already had to be worked on and spoken honestly and openly about it, because time is changing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u46	Thank you, Alexander Georgievich. Sit down, I thank you for the concise answers, because there was a possibility of giving as many answers as possible. I would ask the following reporters to take this advice, too, to respond in a concise manner. Please invite the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. Up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u47	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, 19 years separate us from the date of the Chernobyl tragedy, yet she reminds us of her many problems every day in the fate of millions of people. For the Governing Body, it is obvious that the State must give due consideration to those who have costed their health and, at times, our lives have protected us from the Chernobyl hell. During 2004 and the first quarter of 2005, nine Chernobyl programmes were carried out by the Ministry of Labour. Since April 1, two programs — compensation for families with children and housing for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster — have been transferred to the Ministry of Emergency Situations. There are still 7 programs in our subordination that deal with the social protection of the Chernobyl population. The total current expenditure projected for this year is based on the recent budget changes of 835 million dollars, which is 24 percent more than last year. Specific programs are to pay for work in radioactively polluted areas and to save wages when transferred to paid work below. Next to the text, an increase of 40 percent in expenditure is a sum of 234 million dollars. The second program is "Monthly Money Aid in relation to the Limitation of Food Consumption in Local Production." And beyond the text. An increase of 15 percent, the cost of 507 million dollars. The third program “Communication for lost property and expenses in connection with moving to a new place of residence for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster”. Expenses increase 2.8 times the amount of $35.8 million. The fourth program is "Compensation for Health Damage." And beyond the text. The increase was nearly threefold, and the cost was 46 million dollars. Fifth Program “Assistance for temporary disability of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. ” An increase of 300,000 dollars, a total of 7 million dollars. Sixth Program "Civil car security for Category I citizens." 45,000 dollars at the level of last year. And the seventh program is the service of bank loans that are granted on the credit terms until 1999. As in last year, expenditures amount to 2.2 million dollars. I believe that we should make every effort to make use of all the opportunities already available for Chernobyl and to ensure the efficient use of the budget. To this end, the Ministry of Labour has already begun the transition to a new simplified system of social paying for affected citizens directly through labour and social protection agencies without businesses, institutions and organizations where they work or work. So far, this is being implemented in 22 areas of Ukraine. Not only does this make the payout system more convenient for the population, but it also allows us to determine the priority of spending and to ensure transparency in the use of funds. In doing so, businesses do not have their own function of fulfilling their obligations to citizens. The Ministry of Labour has a comprehensive system for providing benefits and social benefits to the population from the central to the district levels, and this allows for comprehensive approaches and social services for the Chernobyl population. However, life is tasking us to make substantial changes to valid legal acts. The Ministry prepared and submitted to the interested executive authorities a draft government decision to increase the amount of social payments to the Chernobyl population and to abolish the nine - year period of decision No. 836 of Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers, which is ten times smaller than that established by law. We hope that this document will be adopted shortly. Equally painful is the issue of pensions for the disabled. The requirements of the CHEUS disaster management system for the conduct of the pension index in accordance with article 67 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster are quite fair. In 2005, the budget of the Ukrainian State for pensions for those affected by the Chernobyl disaster increased by 34 percent and accounted for 880 million dollars. In particular, for 80 percent of pensioners who are participating in the decommissioning of the CAES accident who receive pensions at an age, the amount of these pensions increases to 413 dollars. More than 500,000 pensioners in this category have been recalculated in April of this year, with pension recalculations based on the status of the individual and the work experience. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was supported in the first reading by the government with proposals to increase the aid of children with disabilities from the Chernobyl disaster. The Ministry aims to enhance the role of the Chernobyl community and its direct impact on public policy. This will allow the credibility of the Chernobyl people to be restored to the state through their participation in the preparation of draft legislation and in the control of financial resources. To this end, Minprac has established an advisory council on the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, which includes representatives of 15 organizations, including the Chernobyl Union, the Ukrainian National Disability Assistance Fund, the International Chernobyl Disabled Fund, the Chernobyl Children's Fund and others. In summary, I will focus on the Ministry’s main work and some steps towards solving the social Chernobyls that are planned to be carried out. First of all, we're working on increasing the level of pensions for Chernobyl disabled people. The Ministry jointly with Chernobyl has developed a draft amendment to article 67 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, which will allow the increase of Chernobyl pensions to a level not lower than 20 percent of the increase in average earnings in Ukraine. Second, a system of compensation for the loss of income resulting from the Chernobyl disaster is being developed if the disease or disability resulting from the liquidation of the consequences of the accident has resulted in a steady loss of professional work. We are also working on this document in conjunction with the Chernobyl community. Thirdly, a draft government decision has been prepared to increase the level of compensation for health benefits, to compensate participants once for the elimination of the effects of the accident on CHEUS, who have become disabled people and families who have lost a caregiver. Fourthly, we believe that we have the opportunity to resolve the long-standing problem of the debt of government real estate lost by Chernobyl in radioactively contaminated areas in 2006. This year’s budget for this article is 36 million. That's right. The budget for the following year is about twice as high, and we will be able to resolve this problem in a timely manner, without waiting for the end of the program in 2007, as soon as next year. The Ministry is counting on the support of our initiatives both by society and by the deputy corps. For our part, we are ready for frank dialogue and cooperation with all those who care about the fate of the people who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you for your attention, the report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u48	Thank you, Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich, please sign up for the question. You can answer the letter so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u49	The written question is, "Does the government foresee an increase in the annual recovery allowance?" The annual recovery aid is paid in the scales established by Decree No. 836. The figures defined by this decree are well - known and are certainly out - of - date today. I'm just going to point out that since 1996, the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident in the second category of Chernobyl AES and the disabled in the first and second groups of participants in the elimination of the impact of the accident on CAES are paid in the size of 26 bracelets of 70 copies, the disabled in the third group - 21 bracelets of 50 copies. In order to increase all compensation payments, as provided by the 48th article of the basic law, it is necessary to increase the amount of expenditure under this budget programme by more than 6 billion dollars. Realizing the complexity of a single-minute solution, the ministry has launched an initiative, and this initiative is being carried out within the Cabinet of Ministers to substantially increase the one-time compensation and other assistance that has been regulated and is now regulated by Decree No. 836 since 1996. This is a question at a stage in government. In the event of a positive decision, we will inform the public and the Chernobyl community.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u50	Please, Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u51	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Mr. Secretary, these seven programs that you listed are indeed state-wide global programs, and the Ministry should be working on them. However, for us, MPs, and for you too, there are obviously stories that touch the fate of a person, especially what was most often in my MP practice, these are the people who were called into the military parts, in particular parts, they're called chemical parts, they're stationed in one place, then they're working to eliminate the accident on the block itself, and then those parts are dissolved -- there are no documents. There are so many such things. Wouldn't the Ministry have to do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u52	I see. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, the basic law defines the list of necessary documents needed to confirm his stay at specified time intervals in the Chernobyl nuclear power station or in the respective areas, and specializes the government's decision to list the places and types of work that allow him to benefit from the Chernobyl security. At the same time, in each particular case, if there is no help needed, our ministry will do its utmost to help each individual. We're still requesting appropriate letters and requests to the appropriate facilities on site to help people get written confirmation of their stay in 1986, 1987, until 1990, in the area where the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant crash were eliminated. If you have specific references, please contact us and we will respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u53	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u54	It's a written question. "Does the government foresee, and to what extent, an increase in the once-in-a-lifetime compensation to participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident, who have become disabled, and to families who have lost a breadwinner in the number of persons who have been attributed to participants in the elimination of the consequences of the CEAS accident and whose death is related to the Chernobyl disaster?" The Government foresees an increase in the one-off compensation for all the points covered by Regulation No. 836. However, I cannot say for today how much, since this question does not depend solely on the Ministry of Labour. It needs a substantial increase in government expenditure, so it will agree with the government's financial and economic bloc. But I can tell you now that Decree 836 is going to be reviewed, and as it is now in 2006, we will not go in with it. From what is happening now and what is supposed to be happening under legislation, I don't think those who are gathered here in the hall have to be explained that Decree 836 of 1996 significantly reduces the payments provided for in the 48 articles. For example, the invalidity of the 1st group by decree receives 379 dollars 30 copies, and the law requires assistance to 60 minimum wages. I think every crippled negro knows about this problem. Chernobyl's public organizations are very keen on these issues to the government and society at large, and we will do our utmost to change the rules of regulation 836. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u55	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u56	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear reporter! What prospects do you see for housing for those affected by the Chernobyl AES accident and displaced to the southern region of Ukraine, since local funds are scarce? And the second. As we know, it's a good thing. We need to answer to the good. However, our government has not mentioned the number of free-of-charge citizens in Cuba, in information and help materials distributed to the National MPs today. I do not agree with my colleague that children should not be treated in Cuba because this is our free medical reserve, and Eupatoria should be a place of treatment at the expense of the Ukrainian state of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u57	Thank you for asking, and I must inform you that there is no expenditure to provide for all the families that are in turn on the Chernobyl program in the State Budget for this year. There are 50 million dollars available, a very small amount of money to solve the problems of all the families of the Chernobylites. As of today, if I am not mistaken, about 13,000 family members of the Chernobyl family are on the payroll for housing. For 50 million people, housing is much smaller. I think the detailed statistics for 2004 are in the state committee, but again, if I'm not mistaken, in the last year only 127 families received new housing under the budget programme. Nor does it work to ensure that people who could borrow this loan could obtain their own real estate and thus solve the housing problem on their own. The government applied the program until 2000, after which it was suspended. And now, unfortunately, only 2.2 million dollars are available in the budget to pay interest on this loan. So it seems to me that in order to solve this problem, local authorities need to be actively involved, especially in areas where there is a surplus of local budgets. This certainly does not apply to the Hersonian region, for, unfortunately, it is not yet so rich. But for example, Kiev, perhaps the Kyiv region, where a large part is concentrated, by the way, of the Chernobyl family, is already developing appropriate local programs and providing part of their housing through their local programs. So in view of this, I think that the budget, first of all, should be allocated in areas that do not have their own capabilities, or these own capacities should be limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u58	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u59	Does the government provide for an increase in monthly financial assistance for children of all ages who are not fully insured? The provision of food for child victims who do not attend preschool and general educational establishments is based on the average cost of eating in these establishments by local authorities. Or, if children are not in full government care at the parents ’ request, they are paid a financial compensation. The amount of monetary compensation claimed by the council’s decision today varies from 50 to 100 dollars per month, depending on the cost of food in the region. In a timely manner, I would like to report that the main supervisor of this programme is the exact title: compensation for families with children and the cost of free nutrition for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster, as well as the chief budget officer: housing for those affected by the Chernobyl disaster, after the adoption of the budget changes, is the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u60	Please, Isaiah, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u61	I have two questions for you. The first question is: to eliminate this scourge, people drove through the military, and orders on the front lines. Order: the car, the bulldozer, somewhere and in this hell. So those who drove by the military -- they have one status, those who came by orders, they found themselves, and they are also liquidators. One hell they were, but utilities aren't the same, you know what I'm saying. Here are your steps to make this justice work. One thing was done under the same god, as it is said, they went. And the second question: When a draft decision was taken at Kabmin on this issue, your conduct was so calm. At least not like many, well, some ministers. Are you satisfied with the amount of funds allocated? Or is this a style of behavior?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u62	With regard to the discussion of the budget issue at the government meeting, all ministers responded to all the questions needed at that time to be resolved. I also responded, and these were questions related to the disabled, the disabled of war, the one - time support for the birth of a child, and so forth. With regard to oral response, the protocol for the Cabinet of Ministers meeting in Ukraine. With regard to written response, there are official letters from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy before the start of the budget process, dating back to the early months. You can get them when you need the ministries that we've offered and stood up for our view in the working groups, a substantial increase of more than 1 million dollars on various Chernobyl spending programs. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been made, for at the moment it is obviously impossible to count. But that's not the number, but we've actually increased our Chernobyl spending. Of course, this is not a solution to any of the Chernobyl programs. In addition, the status issue, defined by the basic Chernobyl law, you know about four groups of individuals who, in turn, are also divided into different degrees. Therefore, all those who worked under different conditions and were called or ordered are entitled to benefits and compensation. The only difference in many cases is that these benefits and compensations differ. In order to propose changes to current legislation, you, as Ukrainian national deputy, can take a legislative initiative that can be supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u63	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u64	What has been done to implement article 22, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens, beyond the text, regarding the payment of a scholarship raised by 100 per cent regardless of the place of education in Ukraine? In Ukraine students are paid academic or social scholarships according to the order of appointment and the payment of scholarships, Decree 882 of 2004, a government decree. Students and students from the Chernobyl disaster suffer a 100 per cent scholarship under the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Students and students from the number of victims of the disaster who need social protection and who have not been assigned an academic scholarship, are assigned a social scholarship in the order defined by the above-mentioned Decree 882. The extent of such a scholarship does not depend on the success of the training, as provided by the Chernobyl law, is also increased by 100 percent. Additional scholarships are required for students in the number of students affected by the Chernobyl disaster by the 2005 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u65	Please, Vasil Nadraga, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u66	Váčeslav Anatolevich. Vasily Nadrag, People's Party. Please tell me, there are many issues that relate to the activities of the Supreme Council, legislatively. But there are a number of issues that relate to the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. And in this case, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees. You've already raised a number of questions, but still, the inconvenient decision 836 of 1996 that you said the Cabinet of Ministers is working today. It determines the size of Chernobyl pensions, which is actually one of the sickest things to do when you meet and communicate with arbors. I have a request for you. You've already touched that question, of course. Please tell me, when do you think that the Cabinet of Ministers will take a new decision on this subject? And second moment. Please tell me when and by what decree of the Cabinet of Ministers will the issue of compensation for payments for sanatorium travel be settled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u67	With regard to decision 836. Unfortunately, I can't exactly say it on behalf of the whole government right now. But as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I will insist that in the new fiscal year we enter with the new standards of compensation payments provided for by the current Chernobyl legislation, which are far greater than those provided by Decree No. 836. As for the travels, I think it's more of a question than I do, because we don't distribute the Chernobyl routes. As far as I know, the MNS is doing this right now. Please ask them that question. But we certainly have to review and increase the amount of compensation in part of the travel compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u68	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u69	Fellowships again. I'm missing. "When and will it ever be carried out in accordance with article 67 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, "incentivisation of Chernobyl pensions, compensations and payments between 96 and 2004 in line with the increase in the cost of living and the minimum wage?" factions, more specifically, of the Socialist Party. [[Socialist Ukraine issue]] The answer is, of course, if you take 96 and 2004, this time period, this problem is not solved. But starting in May 2003 and after March 2005 based on the current Law on the Incentivisation of Citizens' Money Income, there is an indexation of Chernobyl pensions. Now it's 68 bracelets and six copies. With regard to the increase in the total amount of compensation payments, including the compensation payments provided for in the 836 Ordinance, and referring to Decree No. 1 of 2002, we must say immediately, because we can answer individual questions and talk about some figures and possibilities for the government, but we estimate that in order to solve the whole problem or a significant part of it under the Status and Social Protection Act, there is a need to provide for an additional budget of 23 billion. That's right. Of course, it's a serious figure that doesn't depend solely on the Ministry of Labour, but I think that if the growth of the economy, the withdrawal of much of the money from the shadow, the increase in income from the budget, we'll be able, starting with the following year, to get to a significantly better level of compliance with the Chernobyl government's obligations to the Chernobyls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u70	Please, Mikhailo Ratushny, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u71	Mr. Minister, thank you for the thorough speech. And I think you've confirmed that an increase of 24 percent of government funding is to confirm the social dimension of government activity. So the question I have is, when I talk to the Chernobyl people, it's often been a question that the government's spending doesn't go directly to the individual. Don't you think you're going to do a background check on the K.R.A., maybe the accounting room, which would actually verify the purpose of the use of the funds that have already been allocated? Is there any abuse? If there is abuse, who were they? Because we have some, there were officials who didn't bother to use the money that was supposed to go to the Chernobyls, not to use it as a Chernobyl assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. Dear Mikhailo Jaroslavovich, I fully share your concern that all budgetary resources should be used effectively and with a purpose. In general, as far as Minpraci is concerned, much work has been done not only for the CIA, Minfin, but also for other serious law enforcement agencies, including the inefficient use of budget and insurance. Together with these, we must do everything we can to ensure that the existing budgetary capacity through an effective governance scheme reaches the consumer. Thus, the Ministry of Labour has now proposed a scheme that provides for the flow of funds from the State Treasury accounts to the main administrations of work and social protection, from there to the district sobs, from district sobs directly to recipients of social assistance and compensation. In a small part of the case, some payments are still saved through businesses and institutions. Such a scheme is applied in the 22 areas of Ukraine, which is not covered by the Kyiv District, the Plain District, the Cherka District and the Kyiv City Public Administrations, which use the past scheme, which provides for much more mediated links. This does not mean that funds are being spent there, but it does mean that the time of delivery of Chernobyl money in connection with the use of a scheme that includes both district administrations and district administrations and district administrations, and the management of socioprotection in places, and still-individual enterprises, leads to the fact that the Chernobyl payoff goes to the direct recipient more time than it should be under the modern economy and the modern social protection system. I think moving to new management schemes will also lead to efficient use of funds. In general, I think there should be a single Chernobyl register. The question is, when the Chernobyl data bank and the only state-owned automated register that is created in the Ministry of Emergency Situations and in the Ministry of Labour do almost the same thing, or if not the exact same one, they cross over in much of their questions and powers. I think in this way we'll never be able to bring about a system of Chernobyl payments and get an accurate report of how many Chernobyls there are categories and subgroups that are entitled to social benefits, compensation and assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u73	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u74	And it's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u75	Then please, Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party united. After him, Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u76	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dear Mr. Minister, I'm used to hearing the promises that will come, it's the normal thing to get a new power, she promises. I look forward to 2006 as the manna of the heavens, because I have come to realize that all the problems of Ukraine will be solved. I want to go down on my own and bring you down to the problems of the needy. I'm asking you to take a pen and write down two things. I've asked you twice with a question -- you haven't answered my question twice, your deputy signs the letters. First. In the Mostic region of Lviv, in the village of Bulanovici, from November of the month to this day, neither the wages nor the social assistance, including the Chernobylites, are paid. That's the first question. And the second. Since January 2005, people with disabilities who have suffered at the Chernobyl AES have also been paid for, and children with disabilities, and children with disabilities are also paid for. Please write it down, don't promise me anything at once, don't say it, but give me a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u77	We will certainly give you a written answer, and we will find out the situation on the spot. On the other hand, I would like to say that there is no debt in the country for Chernobyl payments. The transitional debt of 67.5 million dollars was accumulated in November-December last year, during January-February this year. So your example obviously needs to be explored in more detail, because if that debt is happening, it means something not exactly with our statistics, or with your information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u78	Yes, please. It's all clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u79	I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u80	The stenogram's working. Anatoly Rahansky, Democratic Ukraine. Get ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u81	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, MP group "Democratic Ukraine". Dear Viachelav Anatolyevich! Your comment on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens and Other Legal and Regulatory Acts with a view to bringing them into Ukraine's only system of pension, benefits and compensation, based on the size of the subsistence minimum. [[Bill 6530]] Do you not think that by accepting such changes, we will be even more offended by the consequences of the accident? That's the first question. The other one. What measures do you take today, and when will the law on the status and social protection of victims of an accident be implemented? When will it be implemented by 100 percent? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u82	Thank you for asking, and I want to say that the government will not submit or support bills that will narrow down the social rights of our compatriots who have the right to Chernobyl benefits, compensation, pay and so on, because we think this is fundamentally wrong, and we have to think about increasing the income portion in order to fully implement the law of February 28, 1991. This is a very difficult task, which requires a figure of 23 billion dollars at least in today's prices, payments, aids and so forth, more precisely in the aids provided by law, but today's prices and the adjustment to indexation. It is clear that in a more detailed review, the figure of 23 billion dollars will be converted into a slightly larger number. I think we will do everything we can to ensure that this bill is fully implemented by successively carrying out certain steps before making certain commitments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u83	Please, Vladimir Leschenko, the Communist faction. Prepare the Flood.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u84	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Viachelav Anatolyevich! I enjoyed the fact that your report was accompanied by such beautiful diagrams, perhaps in your ministry there are specialists who know how to make them. I think the diagrams will also be satisfied with the Chernobyls, the liquidators and other layers that are waiting for concrete steps by the government to protect them socially. Please give me the answer to the next question. First. Please refer to the list of clean foods that can be bought for a single 60 - dollar bracelet. The other one. Why, then, does the new government not address the issue of granting housing loans to families in the Chaes disaster? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u85	Dear colleague Lechchenko! Clean products and medical and physiological standards are not defined by the Ministry of Labour; they are more questions to the Ministry of Health. I support what you're trying to say is that these compensations now don't stand any criticism, everybody knows that, both left-wing and government officials know that. We will do our utmost to correct and propose a new approach to this matter. At the same time, I want to talk about the government at all. You can talk as much as you like about diagrams, paints, specialists, 2006, but nowhere is the truth, children, that by 2005 the government had increased pensions for 14 million pensioners, increased disposable aid for nearly half a million young mothers, increased the minimum wage, raised it to 75 percent of the living minimum from September 1, introduced a single tariff grid and was already running a real and specific range of social programs. And the fact that we haven't yet implemented the Chernobyl law in its entirety only tells us that the problems that we've had with our inheritance and non-funding on these projects are huge, but we're going to find this money and do everything we can to make them feel that they deserve the real sense and responsibility of the Ukrainian state. As far as housing loans are concerned, the housing purchase program is foreseen for 50 billion dollars, and it has been translated, up to 50 million, excuse me. I'm sorry, 50 million dollars and it's been transferred to the Department of Emergency Management. Housing loans, starting in the 99th year of the Chernobyl program, are not available.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, would like to make only one point: The Cabinet of Ministers provides, or seeks to enforce, the laws adopted by the Supreme Council regarding the social programs you discussed. Yes. That it was not the Cabinet of Ministers that accepted it, but that the Supreme Council accepted it, and that it was your duty to carry them out. Yes. You came early from this, still Vasil Ivanovich, you should ask a question, nothing. I invite you to the speech of Minister of Fuel and Energy of Plačkov Ivan Vasilovich. Please, Ivan Vasilovich, 10 minutes. We'll give the Flood the first opportunity to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u87	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, has been nearly 4.5 years since then. as Ukraine, carrying out its international obligations. On December 15, 2000, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant was shut down for a period of time. The main reason for the decision to close the Czech Republic in the short term was the crash on April 4, 26, which, according to the international scale of the AES, is qualified as the 7th highest-level accident. The pace of work, the elimination of an accident that has no analogues in world practice, has allowed the transition to a controlled accident and then to the elimination of the consequences. A low tide to all who took part in the elimination of an accident — firefighters, builders, military, and exploiters. The decision on the closure of ČAES was made in the absence of an appropriate legal basis for the removal of the station from operation, of any world, without a strategy to solve the problem of social protection of ČAES staff and the population of Slavotic. A great deal of effort has been made to form a legislative, regulatory and legal framework for organizational principles for the decommissioning of CHEUS from the operation and conversion of the Protection facility into an environmentally sound system. Today, this is the basis for creation. Five Ukrainian laws have been developed, one of the main are the Ukraine General Policy Act, the further exploitation and removal of the Chernobyl AES for the conversion of the fourth energy cloud of this AES into an environmentally sound system, with defined sources of financing for the work at CHAES, the general principles of the relationship of all participants in the process and implementation, the measures taken to remove from the operation of CHAES and the social guarantees for the employees of CHAES. Today, Minpalevenergo has completed the development of a state-wide programme to remove the use of CHAES and convert the Hidden object into an ecologically safe system and a draft Ukrainian Law on its approval, which is being passed through the procedure. Departments and departments involved. Through the adoption of 25 decrees and orders by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a legal field and organizational principles have been created for carrying out activities related to the withdrawal of CHAES from operation. In addition to the aforementioned laws and regulations designed specifically to ensure the process of withdrawing CHEUS from operation and activity, all requirements of Ukraine’s current nuclear legislation are met. Today, ČAES is at the end of its operation, that is to say, it remains a nuclear plant, at a reactor facility in the reactor pools, where more than 21,000 heat-supply collections are located in the existing repository. For this reason, the 1-3 power grids are supported by reactor management and protection systems that allow critical reactor detection to be controlled, timely periodic examinations, tests, and inspections of state-of-the-art nuclear fuel operations are carried out. The warning of nuclear accidents at CAES is provided by qualified company personnel, some of whom have a personal license to operate a nuclear plant directly. The main areas of the work of the CAES during the phase of termination of operation are support in the safe state of the energy grids, radiation and nuclear monitoring, work on the cessation of the use of power cells, dealing with nuclear fuel and radioactive wastes, preparation for the removal of ČAES from operation, guaranteeing the current security until the implementation of the plan for the implementation of operations on “Concealing” objects. It should be noted that the CHAES problem of building infrastructure objects has found an understanding of the global community that has provided substantial expertise, technology, and financial assistance over the past decade. Ukraine's State budget remains the most important source of funding for energy-supporting measures to the “Hiddenance” facility in a nuclear and radio-safe state. However, it should be noted that after the closure of CAES in 2000, only 2003 was determined by stable funding when the allocation schedule was fully implemented. The duration of the phase-out of the operation of CAES depends on the deadlines for the entry into service of a number of infrastructure objects. Like the nuclear fuel shelter, the liquid radioactive waste treatment plant, the solid radioactive waste treatment complex. With a view to improving the state administration of international projects and accelerating their implementation by the Ministry, it was decided to establish a working group at Chernobyl’s AES, which would be in the operational subordination of the Minpolivaniergo directly. Of all the projects implemented by ČAES for the support of the world's societies, a plan of action for the “Hiddenness” objects is being set aside for the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The funding of the action plan is based on the cost of international co-operation provided by donor countries to accumulate at the expense of the International Chernobyl Fund. The Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the framework agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning the activities of the Chernobyl Fund for Protection in Ukraine. The plan, launched in 1998, was designed to stabilize the construction of the existing “Hidden” object, and the work had already begun, creating a protective shell over the “Hiddening” object of the new secure canfait, dismantling unstable building structures, and so on. The basic budget for the plan is 758 million. The United States dollar, including 50 million United States dollars. US dollars is Ukraine's contribution. Under the plan, 93 contracts have been entered into for an amount of 326 million contracts. The United States of America has a total of $241 million since the start of the funding plan. United States dollars. In 2003-2004, the key directions for the implementation of the planned measures were: the development of a techno-economic basis for a new secure confiment; the stabilisation of the construction structures of the Hidden Object; the creation of an integrated automated control system for the Hidden Object. Following the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in July 2004, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development announced a tender for the construction of a new secure canfait, which is expected to be completed in June-August 2005. According to the basic schedule, the start of the project is planned in 2006 and completed in 2009. Yet there are a number of outstanding financial problems. At present, the need to increase the budget from $758 billion to a billion, from $758 million, caused by an escalation in prices from the start of the plan. This, in turn, requires the collection of additional funds to the Chernobyl Foundation for Protection. The position of the donor of the Chernobyl Fund is expected to be officially proven at the next meeting of the Assembly of Donors on 12 May of this year. In closing the report, I would like once again to draw the attention of honourable deputies to the complex nature of the problems that have arisen in connection with the closure of the Chernobyl AES and the need for an appropriate, comprehensive approach to their resolution and participation in all the governing structures, primarily the higher legislative body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank you for the attention the Supreme Council has given to Chernobyl's problems and I look forward to your continued support on this issue. For its part, Minpalevenergo assures that ensuring the safety and reliability of nuclear power, meeting Ukraine’s relevant international obligations in this regard, implementing measures to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, will continue to be a priority in the activities of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u88	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Please sign up for the questions. You can reply to the letter if you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u89	Yes, the written question is, "What is the involvement of international organizations in coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster?" Answer: The CHAES site was built and implemented in 2001 with an industrial boiler, the cost of building $30.5 million. Of these, $23 million is the United States Department of Energy, $7.5 million is Ukraine's contribution. Within the framework of international technical assistance, Chaes is building a series of objects, and I said this in a report, an infrastructure for the operation of CHAES. So the construction of the rare radioactive waste factory -- the cost of 25.7 million euros, the entry into force -- in 2005, the construction of a nuclear fuel depot -- is the cost of 95.2 million euros. The terms of the entry are clarified. Within the framework of the TACIS nuclear safety enhancement program, an industrial complex is being built. with solid radioactive waste at the expense of the European Commission. The cost of the project is 47.7 million euros, of which 3.4 million euros are Ukraine's contribution, entry into force in 2006. And on the plan of implementing the “Hiddenness” measures, I've already talked about this in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u90	Yes, thank you, we're restoring justice. Please, Potapov Basil, faction of "Ukraine"
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u91	Ivan Vasiljevic, please tell me with all the proletarian candor, you really are the Energy Minister who deserves it. Last year, the Supreme Council addressed all States of the Great Seven with regard to, say, the closure of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. You can now say that the radios and we can all hear, only clearly, without any chivalry: which of the participants who made the decision from the international actors to close the Chernobyl station to this day does not keep their promises, I am not talking about the obligations anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u92	You know, thank you, a very interesting, clear question. I'm afraid I won't give you a clear answer. Today, under the conditions of the closure of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and funded, the Fund is established and facilities are financed under this Fund, including the “Secure” facility. And for today, at the price increase of about $300 million, I have already said that the 12th will be a donor conference, and there is no doubt that this increase will be made and the contribution will increase to the necessary amount, while Ukraine should also make its share. And there is a preliminary agreement that Ukraine will make its share of the construction work by Ukrainian organizations. Therefore, work is under way in this direction, and we have no reason to doubt. With regard to other obligations, there was an obligation to compensate for the withdrawal of capacity. An agreement was signed: about $100 million. About $60 million has already been implemented. Another $20 million fuel tender is under way. I think that the next step will be to conduct a tender and implement this programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u93	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u94	Yeah, next. What steps does the government plan to take to overcome the backlog of the work plan for the Hidden Objects? The answer. The activities of the Chernobyl AES, in particular with regard to the "object of concealment", are in the area of special attention of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. At Chernobyl’s AES recently, a week ago, a meeting took place under my headship. Practically all the questions, all the issues, were considered. And among a number of protocol assignments are arrangements to follow the work schedule for the operations of the Project: optimizing the organizational structure and relations of CHAES with the project management groups; restoring the activities of the Joint Committee of Ukraine-European Development and Reconstruction Bank; and significantly increasing the role. [[client]] activities concerning contractors who perform jobs and are practices of non-containment; optimizing the organisation structure of the ČAES itself; proposals on the possibility of involving legal organizations to accompany contracts. And all of this has been discussed with the representatives of the European Bank, which are the managers of the aid administration, and they have come to an understanding, and these are already being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u95	Please, Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u96	Mikhailo Kossov, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear Ivan Vasilovich! Along with the disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, a large, unique culture of the U.S. I know that there have been a lot of people going there, a lot of time studying this culture has been given by the brilliant Ukrainian poet Lina Kostenko, and a lot of material has been collected, although many have been missing, literally a few years ago, a unique wooden church has died there. Whether it is possible, I realize that it is not entirely for the Ministry of Fuel and Energy but, along with other ministries in the Cabinet of Ministers, whether it is possible at least to preserve the monuments of this land for history by creating a reserve or museum in Kiev or elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u97	Thank you. I think that's a possibility. And we need to take a closer look at this question and figure out how we're going to implement this beautiful idea of yours. I think we need to work on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u98	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u99	Letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u100	You don't? Anatoly Orzhachowski, followed by Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u101	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Colleague Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u102	Please, it's Yuri Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear Ivane Vasilovich, this is a question to you and to the representatives of the "Our Ukraine" Block, which is now in the hall in so many ways that one hand can count. On August 1-4, 2001, the Atomic Energy Patriarch of the Academy of Sciences, Victor Berehtyar, in the weekly "Derkalo Week" weekly, stressed: "It is sad that in the dust of nuclear energy we did not finish the blocks at the Rivna and Hmelnica Nuclear Power Plant in due course. They were ready for 95 per cent. And we could start them back in 1992, which is, in eight years, they'd give the product to one billion dollars, well, given what's still past time, for one and a half billion dollars of lost income. Your assessment of that statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u104	Thank you. You know, in the 1990s, 1993-1994, when the overall population economy experienced a decline in production and a sharp decline in electricity consumption, so that when it was divided, the single power system of the Soviet Union began to divide with the countries of Eastern Europe, there was an enormous excess of generating power in Ukraine. A colossal surplus. And at a certain capacity of about 50 million kilowatts of fixed capacity, so it worked about 30 to 35 million. So we have a huge power supply of thermal power plants, so it was on reserve, and for that time, there was no such need for these energy blocks. And it had to be measured, so. It was necessary to measure the flow of funds and the economic impact that had been. We could have received and, at that time, I believe that the feasibility of investing in the completion of construction depends on the source of these funds. So if it was a federal budget, maybe it was possible and it was necessary to end them, but they would still be on reserve. With regard to today, I believe that it is justified to put these two blocks into operation, but this year we have to invest enormous resources and put them into operation and build high-voltage lines. A high-voltage electricity line to enable the delivery of these power lines will enable us both to secure Ukraine's energy system as a whole, and especially now there is a great problem with the reliability of power supply in the central part of the Kiev region, and we plan to build the 750 Rowensko-Hmelnicka-Khernobylska line with the construction of the substation and to strengthen the ring 330 in the Kiev region.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u105	Please, Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u106	Ivan Vasiljevic, two small but extremely important issues. You're back from Chernobyl. Tell me what the meaning of the Chernobyl site is, there are two solid radioactive waste treatment plants, two liquid radioactive waste treatment plants in its area. 1.4 MS, 1.4 - Mintopenergo. Are we rich enough? And secondly, do you believe that it is necessary to establish a government commission and investigate the identification of indigenous, specifically indigenous, causes of poor progress in turning CHEC into a secure system, causes of poor management of the resources of the world community, causes of poor management of its own money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u107	Thank you. With regard to the first question, you know that a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers is currently scheduled for a meeting of the National Security Council on optimisation as a relationship, which means that the agencies dealing with issues in the Chernobyl area. From the point of view and optimization of the number of sites. So a working group of Minpalivonergo and Minchaes are now being set up and we will clearly define the functions that today, sometimes they overlap and intersect between these institutions, in order for us to draw the conclusion, Minpalivenergo, the withdrawal of the operation and Min ČAES as a whole, so the area, as a whole, of the Chernobyl area, is the nuclear power plant. At the same time, the working group will consider the feasibility of constructing these parallel facilities, i.e. facilities. Decisions will be taken, if necessary, whether or not to transfer these facilities to one agency to optimize both the financing and the organization of the matter or by means of an end to the re-profiling of these facilities. With regard to inadequate governance, I will tell you that, after my visit to the site, we have considered a number of issues, and I am also completely dissatisfied with the progress and timing of these work. But I would like to point out that each work and every facility is a unique solution to complex technical issues and scientific issues, and the best forces, the most skilled global companies facing these processes, are attracted to these technical issues. Unfortunately, they are not even prepared for technical solutions. But with regard to the institutional structure with regard to legal escort, with regard to strengthening the management of these projects, I fully agree with you, and we have already taken a number of measures and will soon be modified as institutional structures. It is clear that a number of human resources issues will be addressed and a working group will be set up to be directly managed by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy with a view to accelerating the implementation of the projects that we are implementing at the Chernobyl station today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u108	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u109	Dear Ivan Vasilevich. Vasily Nadrag, People's Party. Please tell us in the material that we have been given in the section “State and financing of the economic complex of the zone” under “Financing” interesting facts can be deduced. That, in 2000, 65 million bracelets were given for this purpose, in 2004-45, 43 million bracelets were planned for 2005. That's 34 percent less than in 2000. Tell me, please, what's the problem, why? And second moment. For the time being, let Nightshenko ask Nikolai Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u110	Noshchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u111	Thank you. I have in my district, a respected report, just in the northern regions, a growing number of children who are dependent on the Chernobyl disaster. And there's a question: is the object technically operational today? Is it or is it not? Is there a spot migration or not? Just be clear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u112	Thank you. With regard to the first question, we have been in the past two years -- past, past and last year -- budget funding has not changed much, so this is about 278 million dollars. Grieve. If there is a redistribution, within this overall line of budget funding to be optimized or to be redistributed by programme. The overall reduction or exclusion of an important, necessary programme in budgetary financing is therefore not envisaged. With regard to radiation safety, radiation safety and the reliability of operation so far, the reliability of monitoring of all installations provides radiation safety at the normative level. Therefore, there is no cause for concern at the Chernobyl nuclear power station today in terms of radiation safety.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u113	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u114	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] My dear reporter, unlike the two previous speakers, you did give an objective assessment because the past authorities did something for Chernobyl's problems. And I'm curious about the next question that the previous speaker referred to you: what specific financial assistance is Ukraine planning for this year, and will the countries of the Great Seven -- all those who are so pleased to welcome Ukraine into their co-workers? That's the first question. And the second question. That's what a number of jobs were done in 2004, and for 2005 it's proposed to build a 1430-seat sanitizer, external engineering networks and other physical tools, is it going to be done this year, or will these work be redesigned for the following year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u115	Thank you. So, as far as financial aid is concerned, I've already called the numbers. To date, at the Hidden site, the amount of concentrated funds for today amounts to $758 million. It is planned, and preliminary calculations show that the cost will be increased before. With price increases and an increase of about $1.1 billion, we plan on 12 May that the conference of the donor assembly will positively address this issue. With regard to other assistance, it is already said that a boiler room, funded by the United States Department of Energy at $23 million, is being built under the TACIS programme to deal with solid radioactive wastes worth about 47.7 million euros. As far as the passer is concerned, it is practically finished, and we plan to put it into service. And this year, practically, is the end of the object by. This facility is currently certified in accordance with Ukrainian standards with liquid radioactive waste. These two objects, they're practically finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u116	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, Democratic Ukraine Group, prepare for Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear Ivan Vasilovich! I'm referring to those Ukrainian national MPs who don't share that it's a great good thing for society, for the people's agriculture -- the removal from the use of the third C.E.S. energy cloud until the end of the project resource. And we know that's a political issue, because it's been adopted under the pressure of our competitors -- the producers of electricity in the world. So please tell the minister, if the block were working, how much would it contribute to getting the money that is needed today, that is, how much did the block's electricity give in a year? That's the first question. And the second. Please tell me whether or not Minpalevenergo will continue to ignore the inclusion of Ukrainian national deputies in the activities of the International Chernobyl Forum and the CFC Donors Assembly? Do you not think that if you had included the national deputies in the management of these structures, this would have contributed to greater transparency in the work of these organizations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u118	Thank you. With regard to the Chernobyl power plant, I can tell you as a professional that before it was decided to close, we have very carefully analyzed the amount of money needed to be spent on the reconstruction, modernization of the unit, even the one working: there was a major renovation planned for it to work and maintain all safety standards, technical reliability and all required parameters. There, funds were needed to be large enough, not measurable, with the profits that the bloc would make. Therefore, a decision has been taken and I can respond from a technical point of view, and an economic, justifiable one. As I said before, we have reserves for today's generation capacity. And we're running out of power lines today, and we're not fully implemented with the power supply from the Zaporozh nuclear power plant, Rowensky, Hmelnicka. And there's a lot of power in thermal energy, in thermal power plants that are in reserve today. And today, there is no electricity shortage in Ukraine -- there is a shortage of free electricity. And so far, we have developed an electricity export programme, increased exports with the restoration of 750 lines, and are now implementing a programme to integrate Ukraine's energy system into the European energy system, synchronization of energy systems, in parallel with the EU-Russia RAO, which will enable us to increase both the production and export levels and the overall reliability of Ukraine's energy system. With regard to the participation of the people's deputies in the draft and participation in all matters, my position is clear, and I find this absolutely appropriate in the case. on the question. Ignoring Minpalvoyenergo means that I can say that we will consider this situation and adjust it if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u119	Ivan Vasilovich, perhaps tell someone who wants to run, invests, and manages. The one who has invested his lot has the right to lead. Also sponsored by the National MPs. Please, Peter Cibenko, the Communist faction. Prepare Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u120	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear Ivan Vasilovich! My question lies in a slightly different plane -- the plane of preparation for the 60th anniversary of the celebration of the Great Victory. Yesterday you received my telegram as a national deputy and as the head of the committee of the Professional Supreme Council of this kind of content. "I demand the immediate release of the position of Head of the Sverdlovsky Res Lugansk Region of Yatzenka Sergey Ivanovich, who openly discredits the steps of power aimed at a worthy celebration at the state level of the 6th anniversary of the Great Victory. The appointed manager has been disconnected and does not renew the power supply of the Sverdlov City Veterans Council for 19 days. No reason, no explanation can justify that on average. barbarism and audacious treatment of war veterans." Comment, please, on the actions of your subordinate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u121	Thank you. One. As far as submission is concerned, I just want to make some explanations. A whole range of skyscrapers, including the Lugano Energy Association, means that it is a stockholder society where the State does not have a control package. And we're influencing these companies through corporate management, through a package of shares. Nevertheless, to date, we have been conducting planned stockholders'meetings all over the world, with a number of such major tasks in place in the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. First. To ensure the maximum influence of the State or the Mintopilot in the management of these enterprises through the Monitoring Board. And we have recommended that all regional public administrations make proposals to include their representatives, including representatives of the National Energy Company of Ukraine, representatives of the Ministry of Energy, in the monitoring board. And we have already resolved a number of such fundamental issues concerning the cessation of Dneprenergo bankruptcy, the centrnergo issues, the issues now on Zahidenergo, Vinnicaoblenergo, Chercassobelnergo and so on. With regard to this case, we must, unfortunately, not yet familiar with your telegram, today we will take all measures, including the extent to which there is and perhaps not, we will take steps to ensure that the atrocities that are taking place do not repeat and punish those responsible. Including involving such an organization is quite influential, such as the National Electricity Regulatory Commission on the Legality of Disengagement of the Consumers You are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u122	Please, Leonid Isaiah, faction of "Ukraine,"
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u123	Thank you. Isaev, Party of Regions, town of Harkov. That's my question. After the release of the two atomic blocks, there were many positive estimates and, unfortunately, negative ones. But mostly it sounded out of the mouth of the former opposition -- it was a lot of flaws both in technology and in social issues, there was a lack of all-powerful, personnel and so on and so forth. So, in a positive way, here's what's already done, would you like to respond to what's still incomplete there? Can Ukraine sleep peacefully? Part of the question I've already received is the answer from Jury Tsibenko, that there should be electricity, there to build, there to build, there to power and so on. And here's the rest of it, how is today's state? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u124	So, thank you. Today's situation can be assessed as follows: there is a need for sufficient security of operation on the Rovenska, Hmelnicky, blocks. We are now negotiating with the European Bank, in practice, we are finishing them for the provision of European development banks and the reconstruction of credit, which means that these work should be done sometime: one year and a half. So we, I hope, will soon sign the treaty and it will be ratified. With regard to the issue of power, I have already mentioned that, unfortunately, it was not precisely the issue of power outages. And this year, we are practically channelling all the funding planned under the special fund into the construction of the electricity line in order to ensure the cost-effectiveness of these energy blocks. Because they're locked up today. These 2 activities are therefore: additional work needed to ensure the safety of the operation and construction of the electricity line is, well, to ensure that these energy blocks are fully reliable and efficient. Regrettably, priority or priority has not been met and priorities have been violated in determining the timetable and the performance of the work. The task was to put into service, that is to include in the work, and those that had to be addressed in an integrated manner in terms of security and capacity were, unfortunately, pushed back. And we're in such a firehouse today to solve them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u125	Social problems apply to other ministries, and they've already answered, and they're more technical. Thank you Ivan Vasilovich for the optimism with which you are being set up. We hope it will be a reality. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let us consult. We'll work without interruptions, then we'll be able to participate more.? No, well, thank you for agreeing. I now invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Rudenko Hennady Borisovich. 15 minutes. Then from another profiling committee to prepare Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u126	Thank you. Honorable participants in Government Day, today’s government is in a very favourable position, there is someone to blame for all the troubles. But I'm going to be fair, and today the government has not abused this in any particular way. In planning this day of government, we hoped that the government would make a thorough analysis of the activities of its predecessors in demonstrating objective achievement and weakness, and the government would give its strategy and vision for the solution of the proud node created by the Chernobyl disaster. Unfortunately, our expectations that the new government team will listen to the recommendations and proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have not been justified. We didn't hear the analysis and a comprehensive view of the problems of the ministers. This once again confirms the absence of a future strategy in a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Everything as it has been in the last few years. By the way, in order for the issue to be fully resolved, apart from the three ministers who were present today, two ministers and one deputy minister, perhaps it was necessary to recognize the minister of finance, the minister of health, because the issue was really complex. But I don't think that's what we've been expecting, we've been waiting for a real objective statement, maybe from one person, but a comprehensive vision of the Chernobyl issue. I'm not going to evaluate the activities of governments of the past years on this issue, but I'm going to try to analyze the action of the new government. Because there is such an impression that there is a disease, such a government disease. The new government is almost entirely made up of Ukrainian national deputies, but when they were in parliament, they saw the Chernobyl problem, as we see it, but when they move into the ministry of the chair, they forget something, whether they are forced to make decisions or whether they are personally making decisions. The first conclusion is that the lack of systemic vision of Chernobyl problems is confirmed by the fact that there is no mention of Chernobyl problems in the Cabinet of Ministers. Even more surprising are the measures proposed by Kabmin to implement the government’s 2005 program of activities. In no way did the Ministry of Labour mention the social protection of citizens, the Chernobyl disaster in the government’s programme of activities. I hope that this is not done on purpose, but as a result of the hasty preparation of the document. The committee has made its proposals for these measures, I think they will be taken into account, I hope. It should also be recalled that the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster are not being addressed in the priorities of the central executives. Perhaps the greatest uncertainty exists in the matter of government in the field of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. You remember how difficult it was for you to make decisions about the creation of Deccombreebile. Finally, an appropriate presidential decree appeared last July. But who's going to say today whether there's a State Committee or not, what functions it has, and how many people work on this committee? According to the Court of Auditors, on the basis of a review of the use of the Ministry of Extraordinary Affairs of Ukraine of the funds of the State budget allocated for the comprehensive health care of affected citizens in 2003-2004, there are no medical facilities in the Ministry that provide assistance to affected citizens as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, the need for medical equipment for 2003 and 2004. We're wondering if it's 2005? We are always ready to look for a common language with government officials. But despite all the efforts of the committee members to communicate with the minister of extraordinary situations, Mr. Zwania, our attempts were unfortunately futile. We were told that he had a disease, and he was unable to speak at this meeting. I think it's the only thing I don't care about. I invite Mr. Zwania to cooperate, our doors are always open, but I repeat, to cooperate. And we're bored when we learn about industry reform from the media. We are ready to give our reasons for any reform. I would like to talk about the concern about the need to increase the amount of compensation paid by the Cabinet eight years ago in carbivores. The Minister of Social Policy said so. We hope that Kabmin will deal with this problem. And the question remains, of course, 54 articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Real Pension Insurance for Chernobyl. Unfortunately, we do not have a systematic solution to this problem today. There is another particular problem: the solution to the social protection of the workers of the Chernobyl station, the inhabitants of Slavotic. The absence of State-guaranteed and international financial support was compensated by the successful, I am sure, operation of the free economic zone of Slavic. I hope the government has made substantial, fundamental economic calculations. After depriving the zone of all benefits and violating the State guarantees of its functioning. Let's say I want to take a short tour of history. It should be noted that with calculation, all governments had difficulties. Today, the Chernobyls exist by law, I mean the status law, which was developed by a group of Ukrainian national deputies, who at that time formed a commission for the Chernobyl disaster, back in the 91st year, back in the Soviet Union. The interests of the political forces differed. And I want to allow myself to make some assumptions about what this law wanted to do, which has never been done by 100 percent. The best performance was 57 percent. My guess is this: they wanted the budget of the Soviet Union to fund the significant costs that had been made. But since 1991, then in 1992 we've become an independent country and we have to count and spend our money rationally. Among the deputies involved before the adoption of the bill were Mr. Yavorowski, Mr. Movchan. I repeat: interests may have been different, but today there is a sense that the government should develop its own concept, a just concept, where it would actually be fair to finance those who have eliminated the disaster, those who have lost their lives and health in this planetary scale catastrophe. How much does Chernobyl cost Ukraine in general? Between 1986 and 1991, the USSR government budget accounted for over $12 billion. During independence, it's over $7 billion. The cost of colossal spending, and what is the result? I was hoping that government officials today would be separate to compete in percentages of programs, to approach the problem more strategically, to see if all the programs are actually working rationally, what is the economic and social effectiveness of these costs? No one ever counted it. The authors who adopted the bill in 1991 were in tune with their political and populist ambitions, and along with that, which prevented all previous governments from preparing and submitting to the Supreme Council their bill of government, in which they would be balanced, as it is fashionable for all government officials to use the word, balanced spending and income portions of the budget. Why have Russians and Belarusians long considered their attitude toward the social protection of those affected by the Chernobyl disaster? The view is not necessarily a reduction, but the view is sometimes an increase and experience, I repeat, the Russians and the Belarusians have shown it. There could be an increase in the effectiveness of this bill. Our law has more than 50 types of benefits, two thirds of which have nothing to do with compensation for lost health or improving quality of life. Is the new government team ready today to make radical changes to the law so that the law will become real and not continue the shameful practice of correction? From year to year, I remind you that from year to year it is legal to count today the Chernobyl Act should cost 14 billion dollars. And we have superpowers: two billion, three billion, four billion dollars. So I repeat: never will the bill work for a hundred percent, so we hope that government officials will take unpopular decisions of a lot of polaristic, populist decisions, not popular, but fair: to make proposals to the Supreme Council, where there is actually social efficiency of government funding. At the same time, today we see that the Prime Minister sees a way out in the display of fake collars and the Minister of Emergency Situations of False Disabled Persons. Who is familiar with this problem knows that the 1997 examination of the certificates is ongoing now. Special commissions are still working. During these years, as many as 15,000 certificates have been removed, but no one has ever calculated how much these commissions cost the State, I am not talking about moral damage. And where we recommend that the government pay attention to the systemic problem, I'll say it now. We don't have a law-approved census of the population of radioactive pollution zones. The MPs have already taken the initiative -- and passed the appropriate bill, but the government is in every way preventing it from being considered. By keeping the letter of the law, most people who live in zones of radioactive pollution in the fourth zone receive benefits illegally. The government in its manual is proposing a revision of the Status Act, and we believe that it would be necessary to first order the territories in accordance with the Law on the Legal Regime of Territories, because this is the reason that in those population areas of the fourth zone where an effective equivalent dose of radiation does not exceed 0.5 miles, they continue to issue certificates and retire in a timely manner. This has a reserve, not a reduction in benefits and compensation. Why is the government delaying the status of radioactive pollution areas to the legal criteria? According to the results of the 2000 dosimetric passport, 1,256 population sites allocated to radioactively polluted benefits do not meet defined legislation for radioactive pollutants. And we have repeatedly stressed this. Here's the reserve. Disability of the affected population is truly impressive. For the first time in 2004, a disability related to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster was established. That 5,000 was 171 people. The number of persons assigned to the 1st category since 1997 has doubled to 105,000. We have more disabled people than we have in Russia and Belarus together. This suggests that either radiation acts selectively on Ukrainians or something is wrong with the disability system. This is a question for the Ministry of Health. We are approaching the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. This date should serve as a basis for a thorough analysis of both the causes and consequences of the accident and the actions of the government, the central, local executive authorities in this area. With what gains will we approach that date? Where is the budget allocated for urgent preparations? There's not even an organizational committee. All this gives us reason to assume that the government has set a goal to bury Chernobyl or maybe some other strategy is that we don't know about. The desire to increase the income of the budget creates serious problems with immediate tasks in the Ukrainian nuclear-energy complex. The settlement of the issue of the accumulation of funds for decommissioning from the operation of existing nuclear power stations, provided for by a number of Ukrainian laws, international conventions, and agreements, has been suspended. According to the new budget, the appropriate accounting of the operating organization for the decommissioning of active nuclear stations is intended to focus on the problems of the already stopped Chernobyl AES and the "Hiddenness" object, which means that we are switching from one program to another, thus not systematically solving all problems. All the problems are important. This use of funds will lead to further delays in the actual accumulation of decommissioning costs from the operation of existing nuclear stations, as well as an increase in the size of deductions over the next few years, with a corresponding increase in the pressure on the final electricity consumer, including the population, which will ruin the gains of the 2005 budget’s social orientation. In addition, a breach of international obligations. The problem has also been compounded by the fact that so far a number of issues remain unresolved regarding the development and implementation of the mechanism for the creation and operation of the decommissioning fund from the operation of nuclear stations and the radioactive waste management fund, the introduction of a financial mechanism for civil liability for nuclear damage. In accordance with the Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage Act and financial security, an operator is obliged to have financial security to cover its liability for nuclear damage. This responsibility is limited by an equivalent amount of 150 million SDRs. SDRs are special borrowing rights in the national currency. One SDR is worth about 8 dollars. So far, NAC Energoate is providing 50 million SDRs financially. In another part, that's 100 million SDRs, the government doesn't provide guarantees. Under such conditions, insurance is possible only by increasing electricity tariffs, and this will strike the consumer’s pocket again. This problem needs an immediate solution. And I think it's much more convenient to solve the issue of financial security for civilian liability for nuclear damage in fuller terms than, God forbid, to seek 20 billion dollars to eliminate the effects of the new Chernobyl. In December of this year, it will be five years since we closed the Chernobyl station. Since December 2000, the decree has passed the requirement to develop and submit to the Supreme Council a state program for removal from the operation of the Chernobyl station. Whether the government will introduce this program by the age of 5, it is unknown. This program is not available for implementation in 2005. We propose to hold appropriate parliamentary hearings on this issue in December. And I wanted to hear, of course, from the government at that time not only the political but also the economic benefits of shutting down the station.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u127	Thank you, Gennady Borisovich. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Fuel and Energy, I invite you to speak to Bronnikov Vladimir Kostinović. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Respectable participants in the Government's report on Chernobyl. A year ago there was a discussion in this room about the absence of a system in the State to address the problems created 19 years ago by the Chernobyl disaster. Oh, there's no system like that right now. There is no system to address the problems of people we call Chernobyl, there is no system to deal with the vast number of radioactive wastes stored in the alien zone and to which the entire complex of facilities of the Chernobyl nuclear station, including the facility of shelter, should be included. There is no system in the use of a zone of alienation that must be brought back to life consistently, not just a territory of poaching. The President of the country and the Prime Minister may not even know that since they completed the full closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in December 2000, radiation safety has increased only for the initiators of the closure of the station, the United States and Europe. Security for Ukrainian citizens has decreased since the station, including the facility of concealment, is thus far an unorganized facility in the intermediate state of cessation of operation. An object that gradually turns into a chest of radioactive wastes, and we are taxpayers, paying for the content of managers, paying for the contents of a large group, living with an increasing threat of uncontrolled radioactivity spread throughout the country, listening to the general sensitivities of the governing populists. The Chernobyl Nuclear Power Programme and the entire zone have become an environmentally sound system, a specific, resource-provided programme, as it has never been. Which I think has demonstrated a representative from the Government and that I think Mr. Rudenko has said so much. If the President and Prime Minister visit the Chernobyl station on the eve of the day of the disaster, they will find the same picture. They will hear about the same problems as in their recent visits to the station in 2000. At previous hearings on the Chernobyl problem, I said that the root causes of this situation and, above all, the root causes of poor public administration were not revealed. The Ministry of Emergency was appointed as the key ministry responsible for Chernobyl, although even from the name of the Ministry it was intended to deal only with the elimination of technological anthropogenic and natural disasters, their localization and the transfer of situations to the state regime. The return of the situation after an emergency at the site, the return of the Territory to normal life must be carried out by the relevant ministries and agencies, more precisely the specialized enterprises of those departments. I agree that the fact that the MCS does not want to deal with this issue or is unable to deal with it seriously has served as a result of the Minister's decision not to intrude on it and to recommend the report to his Deputy Minister for the day. That is why the Mintopanergo must be fully responsible for the processing, sorting, disposal, storage of radioactive revenues, both accumulated in the alienation zone and in the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. It is Mintopenergo who is called upon to carry out these activities in Ukraine. The Ministry shall have at its disposal all relevant national human and logistical, intellectual resources. It is to which public financial resources should be allocated. Only the Ministry of Health should deal with the health of the Chernobyl population, which were particularly affected by ionizing radiation. It is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that must address the social problems of Chernobyl as a special population in Ukraine. The Ministry of Nature must organize the involvement of the State in the area of alienation, which is its function. And it is only in the Ministry that there are relevant environmental experts and environmental experts with public thinking. The entry in the Radioactive Wastes Act that the processing and storage of radioactive wastes should be carried out by various government agencies in error. This has not been consistent with world practice since the Soviet Union. This requirement is only fair for economic actors. The amendment to the law should be adopted more quickly and the MCS should be exempted from its own functions. The Mintopenergo will then be fully accountable to the people of Ukraine for their radiation safety, although the current situation may be satisfactory. We now see only a common interest in the proper distribution and use of budget allocations through lobbying structures, as evidenced by the large number of parliamentary requests for funds. Another issue that requires an independent report. This is a matter of emergency preparedness for high-risk facilities in the Territory. Chernobyl's bitter experience is forgotten. Emergency safety and preparedness infrastructure has not been established at any nuclear station. When asked here, in what condition the safety of the flat blocks and the hops introduced there were in exactly the same condition. We have not prepared these units for emergency preparedness. We have prepared only nuclear installations. At the request of Europe, we are transferring this nuclear installation to a level of security that is yet to be established in Europe, but which is already in European standards. And here's the safety of the population, the security of the territories, the readiness for emergency response. Consider the recent events in Novo Bogdanovka, when we found ourselves in disarray, knowing that we had these shells, and we improvised some of them to put an end to the situation there. This is unacceptable in relation to nuclear energy, and more so in Ukraine. Population and business see no benefits from being near an atomic station. They are against nuclear energy, although it is nuclear energy that provides for the needs of each of us in electricity that is the cornerstone of Ukraine's energy independence. In conclusion, let me say this. It is hoped that the current Government will professionally organize the resolution of all the tasks that have been assigned to Ukraine today on 26 April 1986. There is also work to be done to exacerbate these problems. The current leaders of the country stopped the CHEC in 2000, when the national readiness to turn the facility's nuclear station into a shelter for environmental security had not yet been established. By the way, she's gone now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u129	Thank you, Vladimir Konstantinovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear colleagues, all of whom we should have listened to, we finally heard. So let's move on to the discussion. It's supposed to take an hour. First, there will be representatives of factions, five minutes ’ worth of MPs. And the time left is then for those deputies who are recorded in order of order of order. So I give the word to Jeremiah Igor, the faction of the People's Party. Prepare Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, guests, and voters! For nearly two decades, we have been living in a duel of unprecedented proportions and centuries - old disasters that will hover over Ukraine at least 50,000 more. Years. During this time thousands of our fellow citizens have gone out of our lives. Disease rates are growing, and radiological garbage covers almost all of Ukraine’s land. Regrettably, these years have failed to solve the problem of moving and providing housing for the victims. No one cares about the ecological rehabilitation of the territory of alienation. The fate of 200 tons of nuclear fuel buried at the scene of the tragedy remains unresolved. The monstrosity of the human soul by its masculinity adds to the suffering of those who look forward to support and who face mistrust, misunderstanding, and unwillingness of many officials to carry out their duties. From the fact that various Chernobyl forums, like today’s Government Day, have found the achievement of a stable environment, a diseased liquidator who lives in, say, the Polish Manievichs, not easier. Whatever its stability, the State’s aid of 379 dollars paid by the liquidator’s family for the loss of a breadwinner is apparently too small. What is it like being bullied by setting up some Chernobyl payout categories in three bracelets and a few copies for a full meal? So the biggest culprit and debtor to the people -- the state -- has to admit it and repent, good for it, it's a good opportunity to do so now, and first of all to establish the belief of the citizens that man will never be left alone with his tragedy, his illness, his pain or his loss. That is why our actions should be systematic, consistent, forward - looking, and transparent. First of all, the Supreme Council is a man to overcome the permanence with which Chernobyl legislation works. At the moment, life is forcing us to expand the legal field by reorienting it to the long-term medical and psychological rehabilitation of the victims. Secondly, the authorities of all levels have ultimately to ensure that the laws in force are clearly enforced. We must not be calm about when the law is passed, and its execution depends on an indefinite period of time. So, let's say, a year ago, a law was passed to place some of the population in Volinsky and Plains areas in the area of guaranteed voluntary evictions, by which Kabin was obliged to provide timely and full funding for the socio-economic development of these areas. And what do we have today's budget year? If you need 5 million dollars for just two Volin villages, Galuzzia and Prilisne, you actually have 420,000 dollars planned. Or even more, he is awaited by the inhabitants of Manevecki, the only radioactively polluted area in Ukraine, where there is no gas station: how long do they have to wait for natural gas to appear in their homes? Among the pains of the Chernobylites, who were shared with us in our letters the day before the government's Day, some of the Union-Montenegro district centres are focusing on the effectiveness of budget use, as this year's budget is again defined by several major managers. By the way, the proposals of the People's Party faction to restore a single government authority from Chernobyl were never heard from the government. Now, judge yourself: the new money managers are asking questions about the creation of vertical information structures, because at the regional level, especially in the areas, they're just no one to deal with these issues, and they require additional organizational, financial and material security. The second quarter has long begun, and it is still unclear who and how the affected children and adults will be cured. In most regions no agreement has been made for the purchase of sanitation, no free feeding of children in contaminated areas, and no other measures have been taken in the National Chernobyl Programme. State and public organizations in the regions from those who do not speak, but are in fact aware of Chernobyl’s problems, have come up with persistent proposals to renew the only government body to cover the entire issue of Chernobyl. We need to act now. We're already late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, Anatoly Rahansky, Democratic Ukraine. After him, I can't see Assadcheva, the Flood of Vasily.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u132	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, Democratic Ukraine, interfractional association of Deputies of the Black Tribe. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the government, distinguished participants in the Chernobyl rally! From the information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of implementation of legislation, it can be concluded that no law relating to the execution of the consequences of the tragedy is implemented 19 years after the planetary disaster. I believe that the study materials, the Cabinet of Ministers, focused on statistics, which is what has already been done. We know without them what's done. We need to say what we need to do and what the consequences of the accident will be eliminated. Participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident, and about three million of them, are constantly reporting their problems through media, letters, and appeals. Recently, our "Deputy Chernobyls" union, along with the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, held a round table dedicated to the 19th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Sadly, though, all previous governments may not have heard. I'm sorry, don't yell.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u133	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, as always, you're breaking up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u134	Sadly, though, all previous governments may not have heard or heard the concerns of these people. The 2005 National Budget of Ukraine provides a solution to the problem of social protection of the Chernobyl population by only 50 percent by 15 percent. We just got off the phone with the rally participants from various parts of Ukraine. These are their demands to the President, the government, the Supreme Council. Implement the Act on the Status and Social Protection of the Victims, increase the minimum pensions for disabled persons involved in the liquidation of the accident; implement State programmes to provide housing for victims, health care and sanitation; improve the living conditions of citizens in polluted areas, where they need to be resettled urgently. It is only necessary to say that at 500 locations, people consume milk and meat with elevated levels of cesium-137, mostly without knowing it. It's genocide over the people. In a critical state of solving the physical and technical problems caused by the accident. The government did not set clear deadlines for the completion of the construction of objects. It's Swipe-2 to release the power grids from nuclear fuel, to process liquid and solid radioactive wastes, an integrated state control system for hide-and-seek, to remove fuel-fuel materials, to get a new confiment. For these purposes, the State does not receive 100 million dollars each year from the budget for CHEC’s SSP. The Kabin does not comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision of 03.02 this year to finance urgent preparations for the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. We say they don't give us money. Are we making money? We're saying that we're being given very little money. But we cannot tell where the funds allocated by the European community are going today. We can't say that today. Scientists in Ukraine are alarming. The sarcophagus forms a critical mass. By 2013 it is projected to be an adequate 90 bombs dropped on Herosima, Nagasaki. Think, dear colleagues, of the planet Earth. I'm making an offer. Recognize the activities of former governments and today’s government in implementing Ukraine’s legislation on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is unsatisfactory. The government raises the demand for donor countries to implement programs. In full terms, develop a real, strict, time-bound program to turn "object of concealment" into an environmentally safe system. After the impact of the accident has been eliminated, we need to tell you what we should do today, tomorrow, after tomorrow, clearly and clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Basil Potapov, faction of Ukraine. Behind him is the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u136	Faction “Regions of Ukraine”, 188 constituency, Kharkiv region, Potapov. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable cannibals! The nature of the consideration of this problem today in the Hall, I think, is very accurate in dealing with Chernobyl's problems not only in society, in the State, but also in leadership. Twenty-six years of Chernobyl were completed. And what we have heard today, from the flow of statistics we have, shows that I am absolutely in agreement with my colleague Rahanski, no regulatory document, no law is being implemented. In this situation, it would be more critical and more serious to ask. But on the part of the members of the Government, we have heard the information needed to calm the Chernobyl population that is supposed to be resolved. The past Government is not fully and neither is the current Government, as evidenced by the progress of the review, nor are they going to approach a full resolution of the problem. When we talk about the budget, of course, we need funds. But what is needed to address the system of administration of this problem? We are seeing today on Chernobyl's issues in the Hall there must be three ministers, and in fact, we are dealing with virtually all the Government. We have had the opportunity to approve the Deputy Prime Minister for Administrative Reform, but we do not see the need today to establish a normal system for resolving the Chernobyl problem as a whole, in the Government. And when it comes to a matter, we have nothing more to do with the Ministry of Emergency Situations than to deal with the recovery of children. There's no need for funds, there's a need for desire, a desire and a natural capacity. That's the first question. The second question was that we were a little pleased with the Chernobyl trend last year, when almost a billion more budgeted to settle past years' arrears first, and the second to increase funding for Chernobyl programmes in 2004. And it all went down, from $2 billion to $600 million, the funding of all the Chernobyl programmes combined has not only increased, but it has decreased by almost a billion. Not a word was said in the vote for the changes in the budget. The members of the "Regions" faction resent that we did not vote in favour of this budget. We did not vote in favour of the budget, we did not vote in favour of the adoption system itself, and we had clear intentions to deal with the Chernobyl problem. We've heard one brief, well, a fragment of 632 thousand Chernobyl children gets better about 140,000 a year. Let's pretend that once every five years a Chernobyl child or a sick child has the opportunity to recover. As a child, he can do it twice. And what happens to him if he becomes a healthy person or an adult. He would naturally not be healthy and would be on the shoulders of the State as a socially caring citizen. We must make a situation in which Chernobyl children would be able to recover every year. Is the Government trying to solve this problem? Nope. My colleague, Isaiah, questioned the situation at the Cabinet of Ministers. In absolute idyllia, in an absolutely calm environment in the Cabinet of Ministers, there was a Chernobyl problem. Whoever wrote to someone may have been writing to them. The Minister of Defence has tried to raise his own problems. The Minister of Agriculture insisted on many problems. In the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Emergency Situations did not have the opportunity to require the Cabinet of Ministers to increase funding. I think it's an attitude, it's not an accident at all. In the actions of the current leadership of the country, and we also have to say clearly, there is no concern about the problems of the Chernobyl population. And on the eve of the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, it's a serious stain, and we need to fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u137	Thank you. John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Prepare Fomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u138	Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen. We're on the time line when it's critical to assess the state of affairs in dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. For 19 years, it is time to finally implement a large portion of Chernobyl’s programs and give people peace of mind. Unfortunately, all of us must note that as Ukrainians have driven across the world, the Chernobyl disaster caused by the ingenuity of atomic conquistadores, the so-called Soviet authorities, for which the lamp was always needed by the light of the eye, is still the wives of these people around the world. The program of moving people from polluted areas is far from complete. The same can be said of the building program, the debt relief program for affected citizens for lost immovable property, the rehabilitation program for polluted territory, and so forth. And it's not that there's no money in the State budget, it's that the government is weakening attention to the Chernobyl problem year after year. Another way to explain it is that economic growth has been at a rather high pace for five years now, and the dynamics of financing Chernobyl programs are characterized by a downward curve. According to the Ukrainian People’s Party, the problem was that previous governments relied not on a clear calculation and a strategic vision of the solution of the problem, but on the self - rehabilitation of natural resources and the self - organization of local communities. So the root cause of the inconsolable solution to the Chernobyl problem is poor government, particularly the absence of a strategic component. To solve this problem requires a new ideology, a new approach. It's in this plane that I want to give a few recommendations to our government. First of all, I would recommend that the government take a closer look at this year’s budget assignments for their execution. Today, we need to prepare for the adjustment of the State Budget for Money Relief in connection with the restrictions on the consumption of local food. In view of price increases, millions of dollars by the end of the year will not be enough. So I'm drawing the government's attention to this future problem. A budget resolution for the following year will be formed in a month. In this resolution, there is a need to increase pensions for black people who are now essentially at the labour level. The previous governments have virtually forgotten what pension indexation is for black people. But you realize very well that the cost to people who are sick, the cost that people who haven't actually settled in these 20 years, because those, for example, houses where they've moved in, they're nowhere to be found. In my village, in the village where my mother lives, it's the settlers, so made the village, that without a river, a large water came up, and in fact six houses were destroyed and about twenty houses were broken down by walls. That's the quality of this work, that's the peace for these people today. Therefore, the new government needs to make this proposal for life. The other one. The government needs to put in place a new strategy for the formation of financial sources for the rehabilitation of contaminated areas. If we think about it, honourable national deputies, that from the State budget we can finance the rehabilitation of the territories in a broad sense, from natural resources to the social environment, we are deeply wrong. We need to look for inside sources today. And as an example of the People's Region of the Žitomir Region, I can show you that there are such sources. In this area, about 50 percent of the areas are forested. And there's forestry. But is there a coming of local budgets? At best, it's 5 or 7 copies per hectare. Clearly, there is great activity, and there is nothing. There are other possibilities, such as the development of the same granite or other useful fossils. You can release bricks because the clay is beautiful, but it takes a little push. Some investment programs are needed. And if it doesn't work, no one will do anything. Therefore, the Honourable People's Deputies, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, urge you to change your approach to the budget resolution next year. There is a need to increase funding for Chernobyl programs, and several programs just need to be closed in a year or two. Such a program can be a program of moving people who have been affected. It's not a problem finding a billion dollars to move these people. So I urge you to take responsibility for this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u139	Please, Katerina Fomenco, the Soyuz Group. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u140	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! It is now common for government members to respond to the funding of those areas, the ministries that it finances, that it heads, that government funding is limited, and that is why they have not been able to implement the laws that they should have implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address you and give you the following numbers. From year to year, we have a steady increase in the state budget of Ukraine -- 72 billion, 92 billion, 140 billion over the last three years. 113 - execution, 124, 150 are the percentages on which the National Budget of Ukraine and its expenditures increase annually. And on the other hand, I want to tell you how the Chernobyl program is financed: 22 percent of what we need, 11 percent of what we need, 17.8 percent of what we need. We have a reverse addiction, my dear, to fund these Chernobyl programs. My honourable members of the government, Your Honor, I emphasize, I will insist that you not only have the right, but you must ensure that the financing of those laws for which you are responsible is proportionate. In 2005, we also have a decrease of more than 156 million. For example, monthly cash assistance due to restrictions on local food consumption and compensation for food insurance has been reduced by 163 million. By the way, these payments account for more than 40 percent of the total cost of social protection. Here today, the title of Decree 836 of 26 July was repeated. 96 C.E. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much want you to know what this is about: it is this decree that provides for the next funding. In Russian, I apologize: monthly payment, regardless of any other payment for each school-age child born after 26 April 1996 by a father who had grounds for belonging to category I-II during pregnancy, we have a State paying 3 bracelets of 30 copies. For example, monthly payments to families for each school-age child who has become disabled or who are under post-graduate care due to the Chernobyl disaster, as well as to school-age children whose parents have become disabled I and II groups or who have died as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, have resulted in 6 bracelets of 40 copies. Ladies and gentlemen, 20 copies a day. Tell me, can we seriously discuss any State support to all those categories affected by the Chernobyl disaster? These figures, which have been reported today, have to be surprised. With regard to free medical care and dental care, yes, we now consider the achievement of 26.3 bracelets per year to 14.7. I want to tell you that this money might be enough for two packs of vitamins. Please tell me, how can a disabled person really live with this kind of funding? I cannot today but read out the address addressed to me, the Public Organization of the Chernobyl Union of the Lugansk Region. “The further away from the events of the Chernobyl tragedy, the less our memories return to them, but the memory of those directly affected by Chernobyl events who participated in the disaster is constantly alive. We, the people who have fulfilled their duty to society, who have lost their health as a result of these events, are entitled to a dignified attitude and respect, both by the authorities and by the society in which we live. The lack of funding for articles of the Status Act, the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, has led to the fact that the release of medicines for free prescriptions has actually been discontinued. The State budget for 2005 continued the practice of centralization of sanatorium travel from the Ministry of Emergency Situations. On the basis of the foregoing, we, the victims of the Chernobyl disaster, the delegates of the “Soyuz” conference, demand the implementation of all the regulations, all the laws that protect us.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u141	The word is Igor Shurma, a faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. He will be followed by Anatoly Grzezhev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u142	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. The problem with Chernobyl is that all the problems of Chernobyl are evenly spread across a dozen ministries. And to this day, everyone answers with everything and no one bears any responsibility. I don't know where to go to the common people who are considered injured by Chernobyl, but today the Ukrainian national deputy, and there's not a lot of them here, there's no one to turn to. He was always responsible for the problems of the Chernobyls, Vice Prime Minister. Where's the Deputy Prime Minister today? I don't know, obviously he's bringing out a new idea for the world championship of Ukraine from sleigh sport, because we have a proper crew. Perhaps he is not in the mood for these problems today. There were former ministers associated with the Supreme Council, and at least once they brought these problems to the ministers. The new government said, "The advantage of our power is that ministers come here and know all the problems," Where are all the ministers? With great respect to Mr. Plačkov, this is the only professional performance today was in this session hall. I wanted to talk to our colleagues from Our Ukraine, the winners of the presidential race, but there's only one person in 110. I wanted to offer them, traveling around the world with the President of Ukraine, to arrange for the help of 50 million, to request that the money go to the creation of a new sarcophagus. The Chernobyl problem. To get that money 32 million dollars for statistics, not to buy new computers, but to buy some of the necessary items for the same black people. I would suggest at all that people penetrate the problems of our Chernobyl, and on free visas to the country they would still have free travel to visit the Chernobyl AES territory. Having come to their home country, they will really be able to tell us what problems exist in Ukraine. Today, it is clear that the Chernobyl problem over the years has been transformed from technogeneous mainly into social one. Indeed, the number of people affected by the disaster is enormous — 3 million of our citizens. And today, there is an urgent need for a health minister to report to the President that 200,000 children who have been cured in Cuba are in need, and today Cuba needs to be maintained rather than strengthened. Today, the minister of health had to say that there are no objective laboratory and clinical criteria for differentiation of causes in remote periods of malignant neoplasms today, he would have to point out that the instruction on the use of a list of diseases that could be a causal link is based not on objective but subjective unproven criteria. I would like to touch on the issue of radiation safety today. Now that 19 years have passed since the day of the tragedy, less attention has been given to such things as radiation backgrounds, food security, work, and recreation. They're used to the fact that there's no information for the general public about the level of radiation in the city, in the streets where people walk, in the houses where they live. The average citizen is nowhere to take such information, although it is no longer secret. It is essential that the information on the radiation background is as accessible as the city map. Then perhaps it would be easier to exercise public control over the radiation background. In 2004, the Supreme Council adopted a decision according to which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of the Ministry of Emergency Situations handed over most of the social protection programmes to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. And today, with fourteen basic programs, seven or nine, I cannot accurately determine right now, was transferred to Minpraci. And time has shown that the definition of the only body responsible for the production and implementation of social policy is absolutely justified. In general, Chernobyl is closely related to the problem of solid and liquid radioactive wastes that are very specific to Ukraine. Some experts believe that the graves that were formed in the early years of the Chernobyl disaster will need to be discovered and processed in the future. In addition, nuclear fuel - concentrated liquids with radionuclides, and so on, are constantly being used at active nuclear stations. Today, one conclusion can be drawn. The problems of Chernobyl are the cross of our nation that we must bear. This is a long time. And every government must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u143	Anatoly Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party, prepare the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u144	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Respected colleagues, respected members of the Government, respected by Adam Ivanovich, had not been easy in their political and socio-economic situation during the disaster period, it should be said objectively that little had been done to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear station accident during that period. However, an unbiased analysis shows that the mass of non-compliance with Ukrainian legislation on coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine believes that this situation is unacceptable and categorically in favour of full compliance with legislation on this issue. We cannot agree with any argument by the heads of the ministries, departments and Government of Ukraine that explains the impossibility of implementing the provisions of the Chernobyl laws. For article 16 of the Ukrainian Constitution establishes that dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is an obligation, I will stress the duty of the State. With the high court of Parliament, I remind officials of all ranks that the Constitution is the basic law of Ukraine. The law of direct action must be carried out, and a derogation from it must be punished. What's going on in practice? The PSP faction has received numerous applications and appeals, both from Chernobyl citizens and from social organizations associated with the Chernobyl disaster. They make fair claims to ignore the requirements of the law and request to assist in protecting their interests from neglect and sometimes from the arbitrary authorities. The socialists have always honored and respected the law and will therefore speak in support of and support the legitimate demands of the Chernobylites, as well as the measures taken to remedy the consequences of the accident at CHEC, as set out in our legislation. That we're most concerned. First. This is the protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. There's a lot of problems that need to be resolved. Primarily, Chernobyl insists on the unconditional implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. This is a fundamental issue, for this law reflects the full range of problems faced by the Chernobyl population. This is also the case with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has declared all the suspensions of the act unlawful. It will be correct and we will make such a proposal if the competent authorities, including the Office of the Prosecutor-General, deal with the issue of the implementation of legislation on Chernobyl. One of the painful issues for Chernobyl is pensions. Of course, it must be fair to injured citizens and especially to disabled Chernobylers. Note that of the 220 people registered with the IAEA in 1986 who are suffering from exposure to Chernobyl disease, 148 remain to date. As they say, there's no comment. I appeal to the Government on behalf of our faction of socialists. I request the indexing of Chernobyl pensions, compensations and payments for the period 1996-2004 in accordance with the cost of living and the minimum wage. And the second question is, it's security at the shelter facility. That's a complicated problem. We invite the Government to take it seriously so that the disaster that we are discussing today does not recur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u145	Thank you. Andrew School, faction of Block Tymoshenko, will be followed by Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u146	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. First of all, I'd like to give a few words of the draft decree, which is distributed here by the interfractional MPs association "Deputy Chernobyls." I'd like to make a few points to make it clear that we can't just be banned by such a topic as the Chernobyl disaster, speculating and using it in one way or another, in any case, at any time. Because it is a thing that should in principle only arouse respect and a desire to resolve and help resolve the issues of those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. It reads in the decree, in paragraph one: "Conceal the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in implementing Ukraine's legislation on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is unsatisfactory." This government has been operating for two months. What could be solved is complex in these two months. Such a decree would never have appeared on the signatures of the authors when the government of Yanukovic was in office. Then everything was decided, everything was fine, then everything was quality, it was complex solutions. Then the children were healed by simply taking them 60 miles [60 km] off the coast, calling them the hens where they were stationed, resorts. Money, that. They were made on the left side of these operations, divided by each other, and said that the problem of the Chernobyl problem was being comprehensively solved. So I want to say that the proposals for immediate action are being made there. But the government is doing this. Therefore, if you want to offer, additional urgent measures will be taken. I'd like there to be no speculation here, because those decision makers will be treated as those who want to use the Chernobyl problem to demonstrate either their competence or their attitude towards the government. You don't have to show positions and competence here, you have to solve the problem. And you have to offer things that may not have been done before, you know, you know, pay attention, help out what you can, and then, I think, this is going to be perceived by both the government and everyone else. I would like there to be no opposition in the Chernobyl theme, because it's a common partyless, idyllic and non-ideological problem, it connects all living things. Because it can never be an object of speculation, so it's cheap, like it's happening right now. So we need to look where there are search possibilities. I think it is necessary to create the Chernobyl Foundation. And it will be created, I'm sure of it. And to talk about what 12 billion needs to be done there. The bracelet, we have to look for them, we have to make money, we have to increase budget estimates, we have to enrich the state. The richer the nation becomes, the easier it will be to solve these problems. There's no other way out. It's wrong to complain that they're gone and therefore the problem will never be solved in a complex way. If, in the last 10 years, half a penny were counted either for the Chernobyl Foundation or for every kilowatt of energy sold, it would be 24 billion. Grief! 24! And there would be no problem. Why was this not done then? Why was there no loud statement by the chairman of the committee?Oh, my God! At that time, too, this was to be stated. It's a good thing you can say that now, very well. And criticism must be, because when there is no critical attitude towards the activities of any government, including today's, its activities will be less qualitative, but it should be criticism with proposals. This is bad, and this is good, because the finding that everything is bad is gone and let's go back to Yanukovich, and I don't think it'll help the Chernobyls, believe me. It won't help anyone. This will only destroy the hopes and expectations of those who are now listening with great attention to the radio receivers, listening to what is being offered on the street. A hundred percent! And actually, I would like to point out that if tenders are to be held now, they should be absolutely transparent. I'd like to be listened to by a representative of the Minister of Emergency Situations, because in the past few years, you've been conducting tenders, that is, your Ministry, I mean. So this year and all the years to come, it's going to be absolutely transparent, it's going to be a tender scheme. And it is not necessary to win the highest bidder, but to win the highest bidder because it is necessary to heal children rather than lead them to the Crimea region. You need to be able to rest, gain strength, health first. I'd actually like to encourage everyone to do a constructive thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u147	Peter Simonenko, a faction of Communists, has the word. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, the nobles! If all is well, as government officials report today, and some support and support them, why is no decision taken by previous governments or parliamentary hearings regarding the Chernobyl problem being carried out? Unfortunately, this, I strongly believe, will continue because governments do not have a governmental approach to solving these problems. All of Ukraine's independent governments have only done what they've done is patch holes and simulate the current socio-economic issues, not the underlying issues of this catastrophe. During the Soviet period, the Chernobyl program was constantly being implemented. This is, I want to remind you, hundreds of thousands of displaced families and free medical treatment, this is the provision of drugs, clean food, this is the healing of children, not to mention the construction of a shelter facility, the deactivation of a polluted area. In an independent Ukrainian state, this funding did not exceed 25 percent of the need, and it now accounts for about 20 percent. This is a bitter truth, and criminal responsibility is required. Today, in power, we see only populism and demagogism, inadequately organized treatment and healing of liquidators and victims, huge housing queues have been created, and no one can and does not want to tell these people the bitter truth about how many years it will take to wait for their legal rights to be realized in accordance with the provisions of valid Chernobyl laws? But the debt associated with the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster today amounts to almost 700 million dollars. At the same time, only a little over 50 million dollars have been allocated in the social budget for 2005. At this rate, it takes 14 years to pay off the debt, not to mention the entire program. This year's budget can be strongly described as anti-Crnobil, because it does not address the problem of social protection of the Chernobylites, freezes the granting of full-scale benefits, does not foresee an increase in Chernobyl pensions, compensations and payments in line with the increase in the cost of living index and the minimum wage, and the elimination of debts over the past years. This, if concluded, is the result, including the destruction of a single management system in coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. In addition, in my opinion, budget funds are ineffectively used in several ministries and offices, or criminally dispersed. This is evidenced, by the way, by the results of the government's pre-date audit by the National Budget of Ukraine. Budget violations have been found to total 31.6 million dollars - and no one has been brought to criminal liability according to the laws. The time elapsed after the removal of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant confirms that it was a betrayal of national interests in the Western era, and that the so - called national conscious was not only a huge blow to Ukraine’s energy security. The "Hidden" facility has so far not been provided with reliable protection. There is virtually no solution to the further fate of the town of Slavotic. As we Communists have warned, the people of Ukraine will not wait for the promised financing of the great family of the problem and will once again be held hostage to a short-sighted government policy. And to those who have talked so much here, criticizing what and how it was done in Soviet times, I am still reminded, especially when Belarus today wants to help democratic ones, so to speak, to rebuild them. Belarus itself is funding the entire social program for the eradication of the Chernobyl disaster. Twenty - five percent of the budget is allocated annually — and these problems are solved there. Because they're doing specific things, and we've already decided to insult the Cuban side, based on what the Americans are demanding from today's so-called national president. To sum up, one can conclude that today the government is not concerned with Chernobyl’s problems, is pursuing a policy of progressively destroying the system of social protection of the black people. Our party and faction have always stood firm and consistently and will stand up for the protection of the Chernobyls, always, I emphasize, under any political "time." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u149	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, factions, and groups spoke. They're in a privileged position for five minutes. We're about to move on to a three-minute performance by the regular national MPs. Please, Puzakov Vladimir. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u150	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Another year later, on April 26, 1986, the impact of the crash reactor lit up a new era in human history. Ukraine has become a disaster with it forever. These are more than 53,000 square hectares of radiation - contaminated land, where there are 2.5 thousand populaces in 74 districts in 12 areas. There are some 3 million people and 328,000 who have Chernobyl status. In other words, the whole of Ukraine can be called the Zone of Trouble. To date, the health of those who have sheltered the world from nuclear dangers and those who continue to live on the radiation - stricken territory has deteriorated dramatically, as 95 percent of those who have been eliminated from medical examinations have been admitted to be sick. Among the children affected by the accident, the percentage of patients is 80 percent, and the disability of the disaster is 75,000 people of all categories and 2,000 children. They need a permanent stay in health-care facilities. But unfortunately, the recent death rate has increased among the liquidators. And that's not surprising, because funding for medical and social care is a cause of concern to liquidators, and more faithfully, it doesn't go in any way. Today's vocabulary and demonstration of government concerns will not improve the health of either the debilitator or his sick child. Today's liquidator black man can't even get any help for either getting a pension or getting a hospital. Two months ago, I was desperate to get help from Juraev, Chevelev and Konovalov. I made a parliamentary appeal, but that's how these people didn't get it. So I am now addressing the government and the people involved in this matter immediately to send these people such information. As for the widows now who remained with their young children and lost their breadwinner, they received a one - time allowance of 370. That it's so cheap to be human. And to this day these women have nothing but tears and sorrows — neither material aid nor moral. It is to be understood that the state today has a debt to pay wages to those who, under conditions of continuous radiation increase, work at CHEUS, destroys nuclear waste and keeps the state’s prevention system in constant readiness.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u151	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. He's going to be followed by Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u152	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk oblast, People's Party faction. I would like to say the following, distinguished colleagues. We, when discussing this issue at the People's Party faction, have identified a general situation in such a way that, when it comes to technical elements, there is even less to the norms and approaches, but when it comes to social, that is, human, there is one thing: there is certainly more to the problem than enough. That's it. What here sounded like shortcomings, and the same unfortunate Cabinet decision 836 of 1996 and compensation for sanatorium trips, and everything else, including medicine and mass, requires enormous not only courageous and financial decisions, but also at the end of political will. There are questions on this subject. I would like to look back on the points that I have been addressed quite consistently and that have not yet been heard here. First. Recently, a number of conflicts have arisen with regard to the identification of the status and benefits of children born from the Chernobyl accident-reliefs or who have arrived in other territories, including in my native Lugansk region. On these issues, I was asked: Tkachenko Valentina Dmitryevna, Shevchenko Ludmila Mihaylovna, Pavlova Valentina Alexandrovna and others. Their claims were that local health authorities could not always but often did not wish to establish the disability of the child on the grounds that his/her illness was related to the amount of exposure received by his/her parents. There is no agency that decides specifically on the subject both on the territory and at the State level. Therefore, it is necessary to ask the Government to set up independent expert commissions at the MCS Scientific and Medical Centre to deal with issues related to the social protection of children affected by the accident at the MCS or whose parents were injured there. Another topic is the appointment of pensions to women soldiers. We have a mass of laws: pension insurance, pension insurance, general military service, military service, social status and status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, pension insurance for military leaders, members of the military, members of the armed forces, internal affairs agencies and some persons. And it's only because there are only two terms: soldiers and soldiers, people who were drawn out of stock, and they were working for the C.E.S.A. Today they are gone, and their families, their wives have no right to receive a military pension. I think this problem needs to be solved and not delayed. Moreover, I would like to say that if these parliamentary hearings are not resolved, I take responsibility and hope that the Chamber will support me: to go through parliamentary requests and everything else. We need to keep things orderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u153	Jaroslav Suhi, group "Democratic Ukraine". Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, members of the government. Today’s issue needs to be addressed in the context of further improvements in labour and social legislation. Because in resolving the social and labour relations, Ukraine remains alone with a problem that Europe does not know, unless it is partly Belarus and Russia. This is the problem of providing a comprehensive, I stress: a comprehensive, solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Despite the individual successes and positive developments that need to be addressed, the name is immediately the main flaw, the main run. which gives us no power, if we can't overcome it, to at least suppress the pain and grief of Chernobyl, with which millions of our fellow citizens live. Yeah, we can call it long digits here, percentages, but they don't make anybody happy because we haven't been able to create a whole-scale system of socio-working relationships over the transition period. In the case of Chernobyl problems, we see that this lack of system for making decisions in the social sphere of all governments, that is, putting holes together creates only an illusion of political and social protection. This policy in paws revolves around loss, underestimation of financial costs, and new problems. Breaking away from the economy, the lack of the necessary justification creates populism, social demagogism, amid the very common cynical taste of human misery and trouble. And the scariest part is not that, but what's still happening in Chernobyl today, in the financial flows of the budget and in the international organizations, is being speculated on by some forces, reducing people's trust in power. And one more thing. Of course, there is a certain debt owed to Chernobyl by legislators, especially with regard to the execution of the Supreme Council's enforcement functions. But honorable friends, no matter how wonderful the law, no matter how high its measure of calculation and forecasting, no improvement in the state of affairs will it give, no reason for a lack of clarity, no purpose of legislation, no reason for a deprived government or a Cabin to please anyone. Today’s arrival here reminds us of the saying of seven babysitters. We need to concentrate immediately on the whole issue of Chernobyl in one government body and the status of the ministry and with the same powers, so we don't need much money. In view of the fact that social protection and rehabilitation are the main issues in the solution to the consequences of the accident, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy could be such a professional body. One of the tests of today’s government to trust people will be its ability to remain calm, without having to combine the efforts of all branches of government around the problem of a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. And about the evaluation. It's not us, it's not the MPs who evaluate all governments, it's the Chernobyls who evaluate the activities of all previous governments. This assessment is insufficient, let them work and get a higher grade. I'll just be happy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u155	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. And Gregory Bondarenko has been actively acting all day, quite visible, getting the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u156	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to say immediately to the Chernobyl bull around the corner and propose three additions to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been processed by the profile committee and which we now have before us. First question and first argument. If we take with us the information and help materials that we received from the government, on page 8 of the table, we have four years of funding. And this funding situation has started since 1996. But I remind you that in 1991, when Chernobyl law was enacted in February, and they began to operate practically from April of the month, in three quarters the corresponding funding was 60 percent of the need, or 80 percent of the year. It was the last year of the Soviet Union. Then came the independent Ukraine. And in the above - mentioned material, the data has been available since 1996. In 1996, by 53 percent, by 44 percent, in 1997, in 1998 - 57, in 1999 - 29, in 2000 - 24, and finally, 2003 - 11 percent, in 2004, which had already passed, 18 percent. And it's proposed to increase by five percent by 2005, but how it happens, God knows. So I propose in the draft decree in chapter four of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in sub-paragraph fourteen, which reads as follows: "Recast the annual pre-financing growth of Chernobyl programmes from 18 per cent in 2004 to 100 per cent in 2010." Then it is possible to count on certain programs to be executed if this increase is determined. And the next. In chapter four, paragraph 1, of the Cabinet of Ministers, commission the project of a general concept of radiation protection for the population of Ukraine and submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. [[paragraph two with bracket]] Twice at parliamentary hearings, there were such assignments, but there was a wheelchair and now there. And the last. In the third paragraph, which deals with the approval of lists of population items relating to radioactive pollution zones, write down the results of dosimetric passporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u157	Please, Gregory Bondarenko, Democratic Ukraine Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u158	Gregory Bondarenko, Democratic Ukraine MP. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues and members of the government! Please pay attention to the numbers I'm going to name now, just three of them, but they're fully responding to how the Cabinet of Ministers is doing the Chernobyl legislation. The past government envisioned this year’s social costs for Chernobyl’s programmes a little over one and a half billion dollars. After the changes to the State budget, the new government increased by 121 million. It's like a profit, but a total of 35 million. Less than what was last year, and the turquoise was close to satisfying the smallest needs. It should also be said that the allocation of small-scale Chernobyl assimilations usually comes under the pressure of a frenzyd parliament. But that's not the point. And it's not that governments are so bad. By the way, from 1996 onward, as the Chernobyl Ministry was eliminated, all the governments in the Blackwater region were spittin' out. But the problem is much deeper and more complex. After the radiation Chernobyl, Chernobyl came financially. Social costs have been added to significant manufacturing and technical costs. Last year they amounted to 15 billion in existing legislation. That's right. Such money cannot be found in the State Budget today. The solution is to improve legislation, to use money effectively. Chernobyl’s laws were enacted 14 years ago in the face of terrible fears of people, under the pressure of pain and suffering. A problem caused by a disaster. Sometimes we didn’t know how to solve it. All of this was evident. In the country today, a vast number of drunkards, including thousands of those who do not have the right to do so, have been discussed by so-called liars. People with disabilities need to be said separately -- they're 102 thousand. Why so much? The simple explanation is that disability is bought for bribes. Chernobyl’s legislation needs to be improved immediately and severely, stressing that the leeches are severely cleansed. Help should be given only to real liquidators, only to those who have lost their health. Nor can we deal with the inefficient use of funds, their dissipation. But this is a separate conversation. Everything I've said is the result of the lack of a clearly defined effective Chernobyl policy as a result of the liquidation of the Chernobyl Ministry. I was sending a parliamentary address to the presidents, one and the other, unfortunately, they didn't read it. Which I repeat from this rostrum: we need to restore the decommissioned ministry and it needs to be decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u159	Thank you. I'm talking to the rapporteurs: do you need to sum up, do you want to? Yes. Then, in two minutes, please, in the order we were speaking, Alexander Georgievovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I think there's been a serious conversation today. And it's important that everything that has been said today really does. has been translated into a real document on which the government could form its next policy. I want to thank you for such a fruitful conversation, for our part, we will also try to make the most of these suggestions. Please just ask one, that in the presentation that made the proposal on my part, the wish will be taken into account in the Supreme Council's draft decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u162	I would like to point out that the government is giving very serious attention to the issue of Chernobyl. And the fact that there are currently no prepared recipes for solving social issues does not mean that the government is not working on it. We will also ask you to join us in making new recipes. We support all the constructive things that are said here today. On the other hand, I would like to point out that there have also been some emotional statements here that do not always correspond to reality, particularly regarding the 700 million debt on social pay. All social programs funded through the Ministry of Labour have no debt. Moreover, we do not agree that the government seems to have begun to destroy the entire system of social protection for the Chernobyl population. On the contrary, we offer recipes that will allow the Chernobyls to quickly receive the money in places that they receive as consumers of benefits, benefits and compensation. All the other issues that are not now resolved, we would like to resolve in a step by step, with the participation of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in constructive cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u164	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! I would also like to thank you for the thorough, professional analysis of the situation and the activities carried out at the Chernobyl nuclear station at the site and at the Hidden site. And I want to assure you that in the future, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy will take maximum account of and use those professional proposals that will enable us, above all, to fully implement the planned activities, to maximize the implementation of projects and, most importantly, to complete the main activity in the shortest time possible. To begin and complete the construction of a new confiment that will ensure full radiation safety and security at the site of the Chernobyl nuclear station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u165	Thank you. Gennady Borisovich, is there a wish? Please, the Rudenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u166	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that although we had few deputies today, we probably wanted to prove in quality rather than in number that the problems of the Chernobyls were under our watchful eye. As for government officials, we want to work together and find the optimal formula for solving the Chernobyl problem. I think the government needs to analyze and understand, to conclude that the time of the populist bills and ideas is ending, they're getting smaller and smaller. In the near future, it may be necessary to go public with unpopular decisions. The Chernobyl law is a product, unfortunately, of Soviet time, and we need to go out on a new idea of a bill when it's Ukrainian, when it's a bill that's actually socially fair. The cost isn't enough for everyone, but whoever needs it, we need to find them with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-12-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are going to sum up our Government Day. First of all, I would like to express to you our common view that the conversation was really quite interesting, quite qualified, professional and with knowledge of the specifics and knowledge of the real state of things that our society is in. In this regard, I cannot agree with the comments of those colleagues who said that ministers had reported without knowing what. To my conviction, each of them spoke with knowledge of the matter. Another situation, another thing he said about it to the extent of the financial capacity of a ministry. They know the problem, they see the problem, but these are the meager financial resources that we're making, including we're giving you, the government is offering, and the state budget, the honourable ones, we're approving with you. So let's take the responsibility together for how much we spend on this. And let's make a promise to ourselves that we will no longer approve the budgets of the gallop. And the day, two or three then we're really going to discuss every problem and we're going to have fewer claims when we're listening to a question or a question. These are general remarks. As far as the details are concerned. Here comes the spring, each spring follows either a government report, or a parliamentary hearing in the walls of the Supreme Council. And I call each of these measures a sunset of hope. Because we have great hope of listening, especially to the millions of Chernobylites to whom this applies. And it's not just about the Chernobyls. We had a little bit of a deal going on here, and maybe we did it right, and it's about a much wider audience than just the Chernobyls. This is especially true of many and many millions of objects of concealment. Here comes the spring, here comes the conversation of hope, of hope. Why is that? It's very simple. When we analyze it, each spring we listen to a virtually new government. Came, informed, promised, a year later, the situation is that others are already telling, promising, and paying attention to the fact that the claim is less. Problem? Problem. The second question. They talked here, they called it money. A lot of money went to Chernobyl. I'll remind you, over the Soviet period, 12 billion dollars between 1991 and 2004, including 6.5 billion dollars. So about $20 billion. Where are they, as used, how effective? The answers are not yet found and difficult to find, because, in fact, the administrative, management guild is constantly being carried out by this process. We're creating, we're eliminating the information, so we want one to answer, then we see that we need more responsibility and this is stretching, and it's not just creation, it's going to be a colossal struggle, and we see it. The intense struggle of every department that has a bearing, albeit small on Chernobyl, at the expense of Chernobyl. We're sorry, we're scattering them, we're distributing them, and as a result, there's no one to ask. Because so far we don't have the only organ that's been in time -- the Chernobyl Ministry, when it was clear and clear: where the money goes and who's responsible. Right now we can't, so we created a special state committee six months ago, by the way, following the insistence of the Supreme Council, right now, according to the new concept, we're eliminating it. Maybe then let's really focus, and we'll recommend that we focus all of the Chernobyl costs, except for the shelter, except for the technical problem of the Chernobyl power plant, let's give them the Ministry of Social Policy and Work. And we're going to ask him where they are and how they're being used. It's not like 7 or 8 ministries are responsible for these costs, and in the end, no one is responsible. I don’t know about you, but I was optimistic and hopeful to hear information about the fulfillment of international obligations today. Ivan Vasilovich, it's good that you have such optimism, but I have great doubts that it will be real. International organizations are demanding us, we've done everything they want, and virtually nothing is going on with you and me on those programs. The ones you promised us to close, you didn't get. So I would like to wish you, in fact, to be persistent: promise - let them give. What's more, it's like they're going to do it now. But let's make our optimism more real, more real in this respect. And in closing, my dear colleagues, I think I'm going to make a common statement on what we're going to expect this government to take real steps to meet the electorate, not to step forward. To meet the black people, first of all, not to walk away from the problems that they have with each year, more and more. So let us wait next year, wait for the next report, and look more optimisticly at the solutions to Chernobyl’s problems. I'm informing you, Your Honor, that you and I are working on committees, factions and groups this week. Tomorrow at 11 a.m., I would like to emphasize, at 11 o'clock, we have a very serious parliamentary hearing about a problem that we've been talking about for 10 years, and it's about creating social radio. So I invite all of you to participate in these plenary hearings. And the plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on April 19. I sincerely thank all participants in Government Day. And at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
