ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:08:16]] Four hundred national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. [[on price stability in the oil market]] Registration number 7645. A draft regulation on measures to protect the internal market from imports of petroleum products was also considered. Registration number 7646. And we agreed that at the evening session we would decide on the outcome of these bills. I see there's a desire for motive. Sign up, three minutes, please. For reasons of vote on these bills. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, you and I have discussed the bill in sufficient detail and clarity, and we have only a decision to make. The solution offered by the communists is understandable. To prevent the closure of three refineries, despite their belonging to known political forces and corporations. But in these factories, I work for workers, Ukrainians, who must not lose their jobs and their wages. That is why we propose and ask the Hall to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u3	Yes, please, Ivan Rešnjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u4	Ivan Rishnyak, 162th District, People's Party. I give the word to Vasile Overseer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u5	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u6	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, we've discussed bills and regulations with you, and I would like to remind you, what is the main point? We're getting a pretty stupid situation. We have importers in a privileged tax position compared to domestic producers. And I think that this is a nonsence that we just have to correct, so the members of the Lithuanian People's bloc are absolutely in solidarity, including with the previous speaker, who said that we should give jobs to our enterprises, should give jobs to people naked and, accordingly, give the same territories the opportunity to receive tax revenue from the activities of enterprises and all that gives a normal, well-functioning large operator in a given territory. But the most important thing is in our country. And in that sense, I think we just have to support both the bill and the ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u7	Yes. Valentin Zubov, please, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u8	Valentin Zubov, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. Please pass the word to Seminozi Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u9	Anatoly Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u10	Anatoly Seminoga, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. I see that there's no point in turning to MPs, because there's such an argument that they can't give up on them, so I'm going to the voters today. Dear voters, today in this room, when this bill is voted on, there is a betrayal of your interests. Those MPs who vote for this bill will go into your pocket. And when oil prices rise in the spring, please take a transcript of who voted in favour of these laws, and you will know who today is lobbying for bills that advocate the interests of a few national MPs who want to get great profits from an increase in gasoline in our nation's internal market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's be fair to each other, because that's how you can say that you have to make someone else's profits then. Let the MPs determine without pressure. Yes. May I have your attention, please? The draft Act “On Amendments to Ukraine’s Customs Tariff” is submitted to the vote, registration number 7645. [[on price stability in the oil market]] [[for adoption as a base]] Vote please! Vote please! [[16:12:53]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The draft shall be put to the vote. And by factions, please. Yes, "Regions of Ukraine" - 6, Communists - 56, National Party - 41, "Our Ukraine" - 25, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 0, National Block - 21, SDPU (o) - 15, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, National Movement of Ukraine - 2, "Trust of the People" - 10, "One Ukraine" - 0, "Reforms and Orders" - 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 4, non-fractional - 12. A draft Supreme Council regulation on measures to protect the internal market from imports of petroleum products is put to the vote. Registration number is 7646. [[for adoption as a whole]] Please vote. [[16:14:06]] For 217 The decision is not taken. A committee proposal? The factions, please. By factions, please: "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 55, National Party - 38, "Our Ukraine" - 28, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 20, National Block - 20, SDPU - 20, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, National Movement of Ukraine - 3, "Trust of the People" - 9, "Only Ukraine" - 0, "Reforms and Orders" - 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 9, non-fractional - 13. Yes. Dear colleagues, listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Derkac Andrija Leonidovic, is part of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, Your Honor? At the morning meeting, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to hear at the evening meeting information from the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka, on the facts of torture in the criminal investigation of Boris Kolesnikov. It is proposed that we agree to such an order at the meeting of the Conciliation Council. For information from the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka will be available in five minutes. To answer the question, if they do, in 15 minutes. No objections? Yuri Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u12	Dear National Deputies! Honorable Predestination! Since the beginning of this year, the fight against common crime has intensified in Ukraine. Since the beginning of the year, 406,000 crimes have been committed, 280,000 crimes, including more than 23,000 crimes of the past year. This year, more than 90 percent of deliberate killings and serious bodily harm with fatalities are revealed. Despite the increase in the number of robberies, the efficiency of their detection also exceeds 80 percent. The Ministry has chosen a strategy to destroy the most dangerous organized groups that destabilize the situation in the regions, trying to control not only economic but also social and political life. Based on a variety of data analysis, both from open sources and from the results of the search and search, 121 of the most dangerous criminal groups in Ukraine are identified. Work on their detection is ongoing, 97 organized crime groups have already been dismantled, a number of serious and particularly serious resonant crimes have been uncovered. One result of this serious work was a 13 - percent reduction in the number of deaths this year in Ukraine. In particular, the Donetsk region has been detained by one of the most dangerous organized criminal communities, which has kept a number of communities under stress in the eastern part of the country. It exposed 17 ovaries of ovum "Lux" that were part of it. In one of the improvised graves in the abandoned well in the territory of the Starobeshes region of Donetskina, the remains of five victims were found immediately. In general, more than 50 deliberate killings have been detected in the affected group. In addition, I can report that the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Donetsk Region, together with the Head of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine as a result of the implementation of the search-and-research material, which was well known, in particular, to the former head of the Donetsk militia, who is now on the list of regions, this report, which was in his desk a few years ago, was delayed by all those who were identified in this manual and suspected of an assassination attempt by Mr. Pinchuk and his son, as well as the commission of a series of other crimes, including the murder and demolition of a car with the aim of murder. In connection with this operation, a suspected criminal group with interregional connections, consisting of Stuckyn Alexander Vševodovic, was shut down in 1968, a former police officer released in 2000 on a state of health, and was brought to criminal liability for part one of the first 222, 229 articles; Fatiev Sergiy Anatoliyovich, 1977, a resident of Donecka, a former police officer, a line department of police at the Donetsk station, released in 2000 at his own request. Shilov Andriy Evgenovich, 75, the resident of Donetsk was involved in criminal responsibility in 2001. [[Part One 222 and 229 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine]] Vinzonov Mikhailo Vasilovich, 72, resident of Yasenawatt, was involved in criminal responsibility in 89. [[Article 17, paragraph B, Article C of the 93rd Criminal Code of Ukraine]] The members of the group have been suspected of ordering serious crimes for a long period of time. Their involvement is established in the execution of 09.11.99 malicious hooliganism with the use of firearms in relation to the citizen of Pinchuck, owner of the TC "White Swan". [[Criminal case 0321612, violated by the signs of part three of article 206]] At present, arrangements are being made to establish the buyer of the crime and the location of the weapon used in his commission. The individuals involved are also rightly suspected of committing other crimes, such as willful murder, attempted murder, and other crimes. They were detained in full compliance with the Criminal Procedure Code. I have copies of the protocols on which they have their own signatures that they were invited to contact their relatives in the first minute of their arrest, and lawyers were invited to appear in Kiev in the detention facility of UBZ where they came from. Mr. Stuckkin, in particular, wrote about what he was asking to warn the defense attorney Macow Irina Ivanovna on a phone that he had made himself, and it was called to the KIJUBHO. He also wrote that the detention protocol had become familiar with the detention “not declared and have no walks”. A group of journalists have just gone to a hospital where Mr. Stucchin is in connection with his claim for oncology and diabetes. It was recorded that he had no physical injuries on his face, to demonstrate another part of his body, to undress so that everyone could see his perfectly normal state of health, he refused to be present as a lawyer. Once again, I can assure you that this case is a police line, it is being investigated in full compliance with the KPC, no beatings, no torture, nothing else in it, and no.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u13	Allow me to finish, please. You all have it, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u15	Now, if you have any questions, dear colleagues, please sign in for 15 minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions, please. Basil Potapov, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u16	I'll pass it on to the dry one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u17	Jaroslav Suhi, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u18	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. I'm not going to talk about torture in the police shelters, they were once, had room. Regrettably, there are still cases today. That's not what this is about. Ukrainian national deputies and you, as Ukraine's national deputy, know very well that such incidents and complaints have come to us. The situation will be repeated, it will build a society and come out here alone as it is in the entire civilized world. This pain can only be treated out loud. So that there may be no provocation, no chatter, no complaints, and no silence from the militia. Please tell me how you look at it. You said you've seen this man before. How do you see that, with your permission, several Ukrainian national deputies from our faction visit this beaten person in the hospital, they can see for themselves what happened to him. Will you be able to meet him with us?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u19	Thank you for asking. I can tell you this. In fact, the facts of police torture have been and, unfortunately, have taken place today. That's why I was headed by a special group at the Ministry, which was composed of the most well-known in Ukraine of law enforcement organizations, which have the full ability, along with a representative in human affairs, to enter at any time unexpectedly into any cell maintaining the IMF system to check everything out. First. The other one. As you know as the legislator, the law provides for the supervision of the police on the part of the prosecution. I'm reporting that the Attorney General's office in the person of her deputy has supported our concern, and the Pecher Court has decided to detain the suspects for nine days, and tomorrow we will address their arrests. Third. People’s deputies will be able to see the videos and communicate with the lawyer, but we will not make a mistake when one of the national deputies was admitted to the isolation facility to Mr. Kolesnikov and became associated with the outside world. We're not going to do this again. And there's no legal basis for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u20	Anatoly Domansky, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u21	I sent correspondents there, invited them to demonstrate his torture.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u22	Yuri Vitalevich, will you tell me when your department will be governed by the laws of Ukraine? Let me give you an example. Three little guys who decided to go to the Company's Hmielnicke County election list became known to your authorities, were arrested at night, without a prosecutor's decision, for inspection, for verification, as it is also called, for banditry. They're bringing Hmelnicki to Vinnicki district to close the tracks so they won't find the ultimate. They say, "We will continue to go with the Compartium." But will you tell me when this mess is over?Oh, my God! And I wrote a few, and I wrote a letter to you, and an answer to a reasonable net. You and I, you said we'd be building a legal power. Are you going to say that you are capable of providing this Power with legal certainty, or will you act by your own rules and laws?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u23	Dear Mr. Domansky, I testify that this policy will not stop because it did not begin. There is no illegal action in Ukraine on political grounds, including respectable members or activists, of the Communist Party of Ukraine. If you have such facts or suspicions about them, please write to the Ministry - the charges will be brought to justice. Sadly, though, people who want to escape responsibility often hide their motives. For example, one of my esteemed members of your faction approached me with a missing man in the Poltav region. [[the wife turned]] It turns out that he was actually detained for suspicion of smuggling, drug trafficking, and others. He was informed that three arrests, a court decision, had been filed with the prosecution. There are no further questions. In this case, I'm not prepared to tell you in detail, essentially, but if you talk to me orally or in writing, of course I will. Once again, I consider it a matter of honour in these elections to carry out the police during a difficult period of political life in our country without interference with politics. Militia will not be a weapon in the hands of any party force. This, I guarantee you, is what I'm going to do. All the questions I'm willing to answer are for you and other fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u24	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u25	Mr. Minister, you initially reported on the police's progress in the fight against crime, and it certainly makes us happy. Could you also report the discovery of the murders of serial-crime militias and incassators in Kharkiv, the murder of Sinchuk in Lviv, the murder of Chief Raw of Russian Customs, assaulting the murder of Mayor Yalta, well, and a number of other custom killings in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u26	Thank you for asking. Alexander Markovich, as a police professional, you know that reporting here on the course of the resonance investigation is a thankless thing. Because one side will consider it. That I keep some details quiet, another will say that I'm revealing the secret of the investigation. But I can tell you, and you know it's no worse than I am, that murder orders are an extremely difficult situation that police usually come out of with honor. For example, this year, he was ordered to be ordered by the leader, former head of the Dnipropetrovsky UBZ, and two months later they were arrested in Crimea, in the mountains by the use of alpine arrows by the Ministry of Defense and other special forces. We now have a way out of the murder and we're doing it. I can tell you, Your Honor Alexander Markovich, and the distinguished Lviv delegation of all factions that we have a very serious promotion in the case of the murder of Senchuk. But I can't even tell you what it is. But I must tell you, I have the opportunity to tell you that we have made progress in this matter. The same is true of the attack on Mr. Chabanov of Yalta. And we have different theories about that. I can only say one thing: 90% of the killings this year are in Ukraine. For example, the assassination of the head of the Mikolai port, where the grenade launcher was located, was followed by a simple shooting. People were detained two months later, and we know both the performers and the customers. This is true of other resonant things. I've been preparing today for a case that the faction of the “regions” and their colleagues in the hall have broken, and I'll let you know that if you're interested in any details of any case, please, as a professional, on whose order I'm counting on not to divulge the secret of the investigation. I can talk to you, I can explain. I just want to say one thing. In fact, the police have a serious positive attitude. You can falsify any statistics, you can fake anything. But minus 13 percent of killing Ukraine is a fact. Less than 17 percent of house robberies is a fact. Minus 25 percent of street violations is a fact. And that means that the militia is in the right direction. Yeah, we got a lot of problems. Yes, there is something to work on. Yes, we have unworthy people who disgrace our pursuits. But I'm sure the police are healing and healing the criminogenic situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u27	Lilia Grigorovich, please ask your question, the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u28	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Minister, no doubt people cannot be beaten and human rights cannot be violated. And it is very good that our Parliament is considering this issue today even before the adoption of the 2006 budget. But I want to give you literally three facts. In this room is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Orobec, victim of torture and electoral torture of the previous election campaign. There's no end to the matter. The fact that Mr. Kiwalov, Mr. Piscoon and Mr. Kolesnikov are on the same list is that we have no democracy and no political persecution. And finally, the third fact. The Donetsk region is known to be the most criminogenic region in all of Ukraine. It is known that in recent years the lowest criminal and judicial discovery has been in this area. A recent grave has been discovered, where some 18 victims of criminal brothers in previous times have been buried. Is this not the basis for a study at a special session of the report on the criminal situation in the Donetsk region, with all the resulting consequences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Lilia. But I'd like everyone to hear me. The Donetsk region is not the most criminogenic area in Ukraine, I say with full responsibility. If you're interested, unfortunately, Zaporzikka and Lugansk will lead the first place, if that's interesting. That doesn't mean that. But that doesn't mean anything. But this does not mean that the inhabitants of this area are bad or good. They are Ukrainian citizens, and we must treat them according to the Constitution and at the end of Christian ethics as our citizens of our state. However, I really testify that this year, thanks to the police, we have been able to significantly improve the criminogenic situation in most areas of Ukraine, particularly in Donetsk. The elimination of the pre-Nazi organized criminal group "Lux" -- 12 detained killers, a Crimean criminal group -- eight keelers, days of propetrov -- six, sums -- more than ten, Zacarpathian, one-and-a-half, really led to that fact, I emphasize, the fact that the killings in Ukraine have decreased by 13%. It's a fact that should please representatives of any political force, I hope. Another question about Mr. Robber mentioned by you. He was brutally beaten by those who put him in danger of his life, but thanks to the law adopted in this sessional hall, “On the Inviolability of Deputies of Local Councils” is now on the loose. So you, Parliament, decide whether to help the police or leave us alone with laws that cover suspects in crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u30	I would like to make such a clarification before the next question is asked. The Supreme Council did not decide on the inviolability of the people’s deputies; it decided on the order in which members of the local council were brought to criminal responsibility. I'd like to take that into account. Leukko Lukyanenko, if you please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u31	Yulia Timoshenko, Leukko Lukyanenko Dear Yuri Anatolyovich. Vitaliovich, as I observe your activity, I am actually impressed by your courage and courage. What's more, you're out of law school, but you've managed to put it in such a way that it really does. I'd like to ask you a few questions. First of all, there's a lot of people in the region who have been prosecuted in their own time, and then they get evidence that they're sick, there, cancer, and as a result, you know, the investigation stopped and, well, they got released. So the problem is how people are actually healthy getting information about cancer, whether they can be investigated and if they can stop, you know, hiding their crimes, avoiding responsibility because of such medical crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u32	Thank you, Mr. Levko Grigorovich. I am particularly pleased to hear positive words from you. I can tell you one thing. I have a conclusion from the Academy of Medical Sciences, which shows that Mr. Stucken may be in a temporary holding cell and his illness will be studied. Unfortunately, the people you're talking about came out of the isolation cells not because of the disease, but because some factions, I apologize, including yours, for this one, which Vladimir Mikhailovich spoke of, the specific order of detention. And that's why they're specifically out of the IMF today. With all due respect, Mikola Grigorovich, I must say the last. Ladies and gentlemen, you can put me to the test. You can take the courage. Suhari, I don't need to be scared, I won't be able to keep them, on your list of many people who will need them very much, I'll give them back to you, I'll work as objectively and as boldly as I've worked before as anyone likes it or not. It is the President's right to have such a minister and to decide my future job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u33	Leonid Vernigore. Three more minutes, Yuri Vitaliovich. Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u34	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Yuri Vitaliyovich, I am developing the thought expressed by my colleague Leukko Lukyanenko: “Minister Lucenko is like the value of bandits by the hand, and the authority of the people, so noble, takes them all on notice.” I'd like you to answer that. You've given a whole list of bandits to hand over cases to you for investigation, and it's just like they're hiding them in their different hospitals, just like they're hiding them in different positions right now, and I'd like to know what ends up with all this noble work of yours, and won't it be like they're going to say again that no one was guilty and you've grabbed someone for nothing? I think you'll give me an answer by person, even. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u35	Dear Leonid Mikhailovich, I'm not going to answer by person, because this is going to take an extremely long time and you shouldn't have to worry about the hall before accepting such an important document as the budget. I can only say one thing, in 11 months of the Ministry's work on our material by the prosecutor's office, I would like to point out that the prosecutor's office has committed 1,200 cases involving officials suspected of committing crimes involving the country's theft of over 20 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Of them, $18. returned to the people's hands. This is the price of police activity during this period. People are asking why bandits aren't in jail. I answer briefly because the Sandman is on the list of one of the famous political parties. The second question. Is it necessary to work with the IMF under such conditions? The answer is yes. As our famous Kyiv countryman, Bulhakov, said: “The manuscripts are not burning.” And these things that we've fixed aren't going to burn. Halfway through the police. Criminals are documented. Now, here's a question for you. For the Attorney General's Office to answer and sit in that room where they're going to need such a favorite meal from fellow MPs who didn't get it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u36	Yeah, that's it. Time's up. Please, thank you, have a seat. Dear National Deputies! Here are a number of orders from this point of view. So obviously, let's do this. That the author of the draft regulations should justify them. Vladimir Zubanov, please. What, what? No, well, then, let the verdict be justified. Please, the microphone. Are You Out of Place? Please, over here. Oh, pass the dry matter over here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u37	Deputies! Yuri Vitalevich, when he was appointed minister, said that in a month the police would be with the people and he would make peace. Of course, he was unable to bring about order for one reason — because he is not a specialist. He's not a lawyer and he doesn't know these questions. He didn't go through all the steps, and, of course, he says he's a political figure. And, as a political figure, we see that he is carrying out political orders. And we see a hundred percent of it, the whole nation sees that the Wheeler case is purely a political order. And it is understandable how eager he is to carry out this commission. And we see that if a person respects other people, he sees that at this point all the attention of the people, the media, and still commit such violations in the course of an investigation, such as detention, such as the torture that correspondents or MPs are going to go and make sure that it was because everyone knows on the ground, but the simple people know that it is everywhere, both in Lviv and in Donetsk, in Kharikow, they are trying in the militia, they are detaining. Therefore, the decision is very simple. Nevertheless, to put the matter to the vote and recommend that the President resign Yuri Vitalievich from his post as Minister of the Interior, let him pursue politics as a political figure. And recommend to the President there that the Chief of the Interior of the Donetsk Region be dismissed, and that the vote be cast in secret, so that some deputies are here who are flouting. Why are they waving? Because they're afraid of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u38	Please, on the basis of the vote. Please sign up, five minutes, sign up. Dmitry Światash, please, faction “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! I propose to support and support this decision, because just as Interior Minister Yuri Lucenko not only despises the political power that today represents a large number of voters, he despises the Ukrainian people who are now being tortured by the IMF. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u40	Anatoly Domansky, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u41	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You are well aware that Yagoda and other ministers have been without legal education, and we are still aware of what they have done. Let's make sure that the Minister is a lawyer who is governed by the law. That is why I support this order and I ask your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u42	Alexander Bandurka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u43	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The message of the day raises an extremely important question, and it is unlikely that it will be very cautious to accept an experence. My proposal is to assign legal committees, such as the Legislative Security Committee, law enforcement, to prepare a software decision, not just to fire or leave or trust or not to trust, but to give a program of our vision of strengthening the rule of law in the state. Therefore, my proposal is to entrust the Committee on Law Enforcement, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Committee on Legal Policy, with the preparation of a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u44	Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u45	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u46	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u47	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! This summer with Vladimir Zubanov, I had to go to the East West together forever in 18 areas of Ukraine. I understand that there were press conferences, talks in every area. Then my colleague Vladimir Zubanov spoke very, very honestly about the criminal authorities of Donbas and, in particular, about Kolesnik. He talked about how they're going to roll into concrete, into people's asphalt. And today, when the police began searching for, collapsing criminal authorities, a new question arose in Tooth to remove the minister of internal affairs. I think this position, this transformation again, is unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u48	Sergey Shevchuk, Yulia Block Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u49	We should now look at the draft State budget, but obviously for the faction of “Regions” fear of the Minister of Interior is much higher than understanding the need to consider the State budget. I want to give the word to Victor Taran. He wants to make it up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u50	Terrence, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u51	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, I quote what they say here. It says here that the MPs are speaking out of a famous faction and say that the Ukrainian people are being tortured. And that's what those who broke up in Mukachev, under the C.V.C., in Suma at Agrarian University say. This is said by those who did not give a single vote when they were being held in prisons by a truly innocent accounting officer of the ESA. And so on. And here they say that the second faction says, "Let's figure out who did this." This is said by those on whose conscience concentration camps and prisons. Dear colleagues, you can't be so hypocritical even before the election. Let's go to the budget, let's get to normal work, let's work if we think about this people, not elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u52	John Bokiy, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u53	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u54	Alexander Frost, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u55	Deputies! I think our colleague Volodymyr Zubanov can write down an initiative he's already made here. It will be accepted by whom and no more. First of all, Parliament cannot intervene in the area of relations that do not apply to Parliament's competence, because the minister is appointed president on a one-man basis, and you know that, too. Of course, a political statement can be made, but it must be done within the limits of the procedure. There was an initiative today. Information is taken to the knowledge and no more, and there is no need to vote. But if you insist on this, it is necessary for the appropriate committee to make a statement, and so on. Why are we showing off like this right now? You want to vote. You're already in the asset. You were concerned, that's enough, because there is absolutely no legal procedure under the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u56	Yes, thank you. I. We're done, we've exchanged thoughts for reasons. I want to help Sergey Chevchuk. The point is that we are currently printing budget materials, and that's why we've made decisions on the Conciliation Council that we're going to consider these issues, which are scheduled to be voted by the Supreme Council. This is only related to the technical reason that they cannot print fast materials into the budget. The name was Zubanov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u57	Thank you. I mean, that's the information. Today, Hiccupin had no media equipment but had only four militiamen. As for what was said to have been the course of action “East and West together” – it was not just political action, we were exchanging cultural acquisitions, historical and so on. There were no political issues. There was only one question about Kolesnik in the Donetsk region, and I answered it. So let this be on Mr. Jaroslav’s conscience, which I have respected very much by this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u58	One minute, there's two factions calling for a break on this subject, but there's no telling what the other faction is. Please give us what the second faction is. Well, we don't know what the second faction is. Dear colleagues, well, there's no other faction there, just one faction. Please, when there are two factions. Well, let's talk about it here. Here are two decrees: 8595-p on the amendment of the voting procedure, and the second is a document of its own. Alexander Aleksandrovich said that this would be a political gesture, since the Supreme Council does not have such grounds for making a decision. But let's do it this way. I'll put the first decision to the vote. The first decision, I will read it, is short: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to vote on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Information on Internal Affairs of Ukraine’s Jury Lucenka on the facts of torture in a criminal case violated by Kolesnik in a secret ballot. [[Registration number 8595 from 15.12.2005]] This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted.” So I'm voting on draft regulation 8595. Please vote. [[16:49:35]] For 180. It's a non-adopted decision. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 57, Communists - 35, National Party - 38, "Our Ukraine", Block Timoshenko, SPU - Zero, National Block - 20, SDPU (o) - 17, Ukrainian People's Party, National Movement of Ukraine - Zero, "Trust of the People" - 1, "One Ukraine", "Reforms and Order" - Zero, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 3, non-fractional - 98. The decision is then put to the vote. What? What? Well, please, with motive. Shufrich, please. Let's go now, let's all calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, I would very much like us to treat with the utmost respect the situation that we have considered today and the status of the national deputies of Ukraine and the Supreme Council as a whole. We had once voted on a similar decision that took the necessary number of votes, but it was ignored by Yushchenko Victor Andryovich. I think we should abstain from voting today, wait two weeks. And when authorizations allow us to vote, it should have legal, not political, for example. That would be correct, that would be responsible. Today, we share in expressing a thought that is hardly heard. Let's respect ourselves and put this question aside for two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u60	The point is, dear fellows, if the initiator doesn't call this decision off, I have to put it to a vote. Otherwise, what you're proposing is going to happen. So how are we going to vote in general right now, or as a decree? What am I going to put in all of this? The author of the project was Zubanov. Let's hear it before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u61	I think what happened today means a lot to the country, to the Supreme Council. I think there's a reasonable suggestion that we might postpone this vote after New Year's, and then vote if we don't move in a positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u62	Then we're shooting this question now, right? Let's put it down. The author of the draft decision does not object, please. What? Bandoon, microphone. We're putting it off. I think that's how we have to get to the committee, let the committee take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u63	Dear Head, it was suggested that the committees be asked to prepare an appropriate decision with the conclusions, analysis, assessments, and programming points of our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, the decision has already gone to the committee. The committee, when it's working on it, can offer its proposals, its visions. But this in no way cancels the initiative of the Ukrainian national deputy. The committee can work for more than a year with an assessment of the situation in general, with suggestions on how to further improve this direction. Yes, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Now let's move on. We're not ready to look at the draft budget now, so let's move on. When the materials are distributed, we will return to that question. It's going to be about 17 o'clock. They don't give it away, they don't give it away. We just kept talking on the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, we have not only heard the problem today. Yesterday we sat down, discussed, sat down today, discussed it. We're not discussing this right now. When we get there, we'll talk. A draft decree on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings “Decentralisation of power in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Expansion of the rights of local self-government.” Anatoly Orzhachowski, please. You don't? Dear colleagues, the draft decree is under way. The document is given to you. Signatures are more than enough. All the proposals made by the national MPs are taken into account. We have every reason to put to the vote a draft decree recommending parliamentary hearings “Decentralisation of power in Ukraine. Extension of local self-government rights”, registration number 8513 for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[16:54:45]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Code of Criminal Procedure is now under review. Vladimir Romanovich, are you ready to report him?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u65	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, at that sessional week, we cancelled the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was prepared by the working group under the leadership of Hennady Andryovich Vasiliev. Then a draft Criminal Procedure Code was created and prepared for second reading, but the committee and the working group proposed that the second reading project be adopted today on the first reading. It has already been discussed and distributed to you. And we could get to it in the second reading. I ask you to vote it as a bill that has already been discussed in this session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this bill in detail. Perhaps in this way, we would make a decision as a basis and entrust the committee to work on it further. Consequently, persistently and effectively. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u67	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u68	The draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, registration number 3456-d, is then put to the vote for adoption. Please vote. Please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:56:38]] For 339 Decision taken. I am truly grateful for this. Yes, the two factions again demand a recess, the faction of the People's Party, the People's Block. A statement, perhaps, or something? Who will act? Oh, dear, please. No, you can't take a break, you have to work. Please, let's work. Viacheslav Koval.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, the domestic market for petroleum products is objectively vulnerable. As we know with you that any reckless movement in this case always ends with an increase in the price of petroleum products and is, unfortunately, the current year, when the poor performance of the executive in the spring has led to the price going up so high, where, of course, it will never go down. That is why the situation that has arisen today is of some caution. We are on the eve of spring-field work; we need to address the problems of the supply of oil oil from villages; we need to move on with our lives in a clear understanding that only the domestic industry can solve the problems that are necessary for our country's solution and economic development. So today, I would like to draw attention to the fact that unfortunately, in a catastrophic situation, our Ukrainian oil refinery has turned out to be Ukrainian – why? Because, unfortunately, they are given preference to importers when they receive preferential tax benefits, they are able to work more competitively on our domestic oil market. And this leads to the fact that, unfortunately, our businesses, for example, the three largest Ukrainian NCDs are already standing, the two largest Lisican and Kremenchugski, well, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm breathing on the ladan, and they can't stop today -- tomorrow, because they can't work for themselves, and they can't continue for that long. As a result, there is a situation where there are not only problems in the specific market for goods, but also social tensions, because refineries are large budgeting and public-forming enterprises. It's not just budgeting, which, unfortunately, in this situation we've had a sharp decline, but it's tens of thousands of people who have actually lost their jobs or are going to lose their jobs. There is certainly a way out. The conclusion is that we must support domestic producers and abolish tax benefits for oil-oil importers, a situation that is more than mature. Based on this logic, our two factions are asking to reconsider Bills 7645 and 7646, because the change in the customs tariff of Ukraine will enable the situation in the oil market to be resolved and will, accordingly, equally, emphasize, under equal conditions both importers and domestic oil processors, which will allow, once again, to address the budgetary problems, address the employment problems of the population, address the problems of GSM as part of the upcoming spring campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Statement made. Please pay attention, well, then there'll be questions again. The two factions ask and suggest that we go back to reviewing draft laws that are not adopted. I'm voting for a return to the drafts, drafts, registration number 7646, 7645, please vote. On the return to consideration. Please vote. [[17:00:48]] For 251 We're back. I'm voting on the adoption of a draft law amending Ukraine's customs tariff on price stability in the oil market. Registration number 7645, please vote. [[17:01:16]] For 260 Decision taken. The draft Regulation on protection of the internal market against imports of petroleum products, registration number 7646 for adoption as a whole, is on the vote. Please vote. [[17:01:48]] For 248 I'll take the order. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Now we need to include other bills in our consideration and consider them while they're giving you the draft budget for 2006. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 8056, is put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[concerning the State registration of entrepreneurs]] Please vote. [[17:02:46]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Please, is there a government representative for this matter? Who wants to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill of Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 8056. [[concerning the State registration of entrepreneurs]] Please vote. [[17:03:30]] For 247 We're back on the subject. Who's for including draft law, registration number 8056 in the agenda? Please vote. [[17:03:55]] For 262 Decision taken. Deputy Justice Minister Dmitry Mikolaiovich Kotlar, please. Is there a deputy minister? Who will report from the government? Nobody. Please, from Kseniya Mikhail's Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, this bill is aimed at bringing the Law on the National Registration of Legal Persons and Personal Entrepreneurs into line with the requirements of international conventions, codes, in particular the requirement of the EU Council Directive since 9 March 68. This bill is directed, first and foremost, to common sense. He speaks of the need to disclose information about persons who are authorized to make appropriate decisions from the host. And this disclosure of information is done through the introduction of such information into the State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons — subjects of entrepreneurial activity. The bill is designed to make the most complete information available in this register and so that any third person can verify that they are dealing with the right person who can actually respond to the legal person in question. In our view, this bill is important and useful in bringing about a system of state registrations for farmed subjects in Ukraine. And we ask you to support him in the first reading with a view to furthering his initiative and finalizing this bill for his second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u72	Yes, Your Honor, may we accept it as a basis and continue to work on this bill? No warning? A proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the State registration of entrepreneurs]] Registration number 8056. Please vote. [[17:06:31]] For 270. Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda a bill amending some of Ukraine’s laws regarding the establishment of registration procedures for business entities. Registration number 8125. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:07:09]] For 255 Decision taken. No, no. Kseniya Mikhailna, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, this bill is the second in a series to bring our system of state registration into line with the principle of organizational unity -- the same single window that we've talked about so much about. The principle of organizational unity can only be regulated by changes to relevant laws, such as all laws on compulsory public social insurance. In particular, in the order in which they are placed, they are accounted for by the owners. Regrettably, today, under unchangeable legislation, an entity is required to register with a government registry and then visit the relevant offices of all social funds and file individual registration documents there. This often results from the fact that entities simply do not enter social funds. Thus, in our view, the system that is already provided for by the State Registration Act but requires appropriate changes in social laws seems to be very useful for both the holder and the state. According to this system, information is passed on to all funds by the State registrar and funds are automatically charged to such registered business entity. It is in order to bring legislation into line with this practice with this principle of organizational unity and this bill is directed. Please support in the first reading, and if you find out what it is. The need to finalize this bill, please submit your proposals to our committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, why don't we put him to the vote so that the committee can work out and prepare for the second reading? No warning? A proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the establishment of registration procedures for business entities]] Registration number 8125. Please vote. [[17:09:47]] For 274 Decisions were taken as a basis. We need to put in order a daily draft of the Product Safety Act. Registration number 8455. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. Dear colleagues, here comes the vote. Agitation is forbidden. Please vote. [[17:10:22]] For-166 The decision is not taken. Yeah, well, we'll hold consultations then. We need to include in the agenda a draft regulation on governance of state property that provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Registration number 8536. Please vote. [[17:11:04]] For 281 Decision taken. Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, the position of the committee, please inform your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. At the meeting of the Committee on 30 November 2005, the Rules Committee considered, within its mandate, the proposal of the Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kyiv of public property objects on the balance of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely: housing for small families on the street of Brezniakovsky 36V, Brezniakovsky 36G and Lunačarski, 7. And I supported that offer. These buildings were built according to 76th, 75th and 82nd years. According to management, more than 80% of the apartments in these buildings are privatized. At present, only 5% of the employees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus live in them, and the maintenance of houses is a waste. Yes, as of September 1, 2005, the cost of maintaining houses exceeded the income of 81,000 dollars. In addition, the debt owed to the people of the homes by utilities amounts to 268,7 thousand dollars. Article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property, which provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, stipulates that the alienation and transfer of State property, which provides for the activities of the Supreme Council and is on its balance sheet, or is only effected by a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the committee’s decision, the National Deputies of the Committee, in the order of the legislative initiative, have made an appropriate decision to review the Supreme Council on the issue of the administration of state property, which provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The implementation of this regulation is not related to the additional expenditure of the State budget. According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, the draft ruling can be adopted. The committee's asking for support, thank you, for taking the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decree on the administration of state property, which ensures the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, deals with the vote. Registration number 8536, please vote to accept the project as a ruling. [[17:13:50]] For 308. Decision taken. We need to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[about those who worked at work with particularly difficult working conditions]] These are the registration numbers: 8084, 8084-1. The authors of these laws are Valery Aloshin and Eugene Hoernik. About getting into the daytime. [[17:14:35]] For-149 We didn't put these bills in the agenda. I'd like that. Let's vote separately for inclusion in the agenda. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 8084. The author is Valery Aloshin. About getting into the daytime. [[17:15:08]] For-126 No questions included in the agenda. I'm voting on a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 8084-1. The author is national deputy Eugene Gorenik. [[17:15:37]] For-174 The decision is not taken. I'd like to ask the committee and the project authors again to take a closer look so that we can make an effective decision next time. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Did they give you the materials? We can cross. Honorable National MPs. So do you want to make an application or take a break? A statement? Please, two factions, the "One Ukraine" faction and the BIT faction, require a break in accordance with the Rules. And now they're ready to report what they're asking for. Please, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u77	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. We just got the so-called 2006 budget for Ukraine. He's still hot. People’s deputies did not see him or read him, not in an article, not in a page, not even in a chapter. On behalf of the faction of the Yulia Block, I say that, on the one hand, we are proud that thanks to the efforts of former heads of the budget committee, Timoshenko and Turkinov, we have drafted the Budget Code, adopted it, and hoped that the budgetary procedure would become democratic, fair and social. And in fact, we see that the budget is made by hand and produced not for the benefit of citizens, but for the sake of power. I'm reporting a budget crisis in Ukraine. Today, the budget is formed, not from the bottom up, but from the top down. And this is a violation of both the Constitution and the Budget Code. Regions, local authorities, self-governments that satisfy the immediate needs of citizens, get a third of the budget, and in democratic countries they have 65-70 percent. It's not a budget today. It's a bomb. The prices offered by Russia to Ukraine, 250 dollars per thousand cubic metres of gas, are not foreseen in this budget. The question arises, why? And what will happen to Ukraine if it comes up with such a budget and is unable to face this new threat? When we talk about the responsibility of power and government, we're told that this government is temporary, technical, that the new government will come and in April, in May, there will be a new budget, but what to do to citizens, what to do to children of war, what to do with the spending part of a budget that doesn't have social sounding and pressure. I urge everyone to demand an article section, as fully as prescribed in the Budget Code and not to adopt such a budget. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will not vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u78	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that the draft State budget will be considered in this order: first, we will consider the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget, which provides for an additional 1 billion 500 million funding for the Pension Fund. We'll make a decision, and then we'll move on to, actually, next year's budget. Regarding the fact that MPs did not read the budget. We have all the literate deputies, and they all read it, because the basic document is based on a long time ago in the Supreme Council, they got to know each other. Now we're going to have to figure out the work and proposals that are compromising and that are made in the process of consultation between the Committee on Budgets, between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would like your attention right now, we need to include in the agenda a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 National Budget. Registration number is 8589. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:21:05]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! I want to explain to you again so that we can understand the decision we are making. The issue is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a decision to make, further to the payment of pensions of 1 billion 500 million dollars. In this regard, I would like to vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. Well, check the cards, he doesn't vote. I'm voting for a return to the question of including it in the agenda. Registration number 8589, please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[17:21:59]] For 285 They've put it in the order of the day. Oh, we're back on the agenda. I am now voting on the inclusion of the draft law, registration number 8589, in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:22:27]] For 285 Decision taken. Sophia Pavlovna Suprun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! I would like to present to you a bill prepared by the members of our committee. It relates primarily to amending the State Budget Act 2005 and is that we propose to channel an additional cost of 1 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure for the general budget of the Union and for the general budget of the Union. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. to the Pension Fund. Because at the end of 2005, the Pension Fund will virtually end with a zero balance, i.e. it will not have any money left to prepare for an advance payment that needs to be transferred to all the relevant pension funds so that our pensioners will receive their pensions on time from January 1. So it contains only one proposal for this law, which is to transfer a special transfer, that is, a grant, to the Pension Fund of Ukraine. The size of such a grant is 1 billion 600 million. All necessary changes to the plugins have been made in accordance with this law. It is suggested that you consider this law to be adopted in the first reading and in the final edition, since it is worked on the committee and worked in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is the first time. It's different. Thanks to the adoption of such a law, honourable colleagues, we will be able to relieve you of the corresponding burden on the 2006 budget deficit. What will that give us? This means that in 2006 we can further channel exactly this amount of 1 billion 500 million to support the corresponding development costs, the number of APCs, including local budgets. So we ask for this law to be adopted as a whole. Besides, dear colleagues, I would like to address you with such a request. Yesterday our colleague Gurov's bill was voted in the Hall, but since we needed to make changes not only to the text of the law itself, but also to the corresponding additions, I ask that we support this decision by our vote, and then, technically, we will make all the necessary technical changes to the apps so that we can get this money back in 2005. Please have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! The position of the committee agreed with the government, she understood. These costs, if we don't anticipate, one minute, if we don't anticipate this in this year, we're definitely going to have to predict these one-and-a-half billion in the next year's budget. But this will increase the pressure on the budget itself and increase inflation. Now we're taking these costs off, actually, we're handing them over to the Pension Fund, which is going to be needed to pay pensions, because the year will end up with the Pension Fund in zero, in order to get people to retire after the new year. And so we will have an additional one-and-a-half billion in the following year, in the next budget, to focus on the necessary programs, including local expenditures, including support for the agribusiness complex. If you have any questions, please sign up for five minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Gregory Kaletnik, please, "Regions of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u81	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Although it's embarrassing that I'm a member of the budget committee, but I'm asking this question right now, but I don't understand it, I've been to all the meetings of the budget committee, how do we have the money from the sales of the Chrystals that came into Ukraine, save the budget and unload the pressure in 2006? If this is the money, then we're putting it in 2006 and we're putting it in the country, and on all the programs that we're doing something that's kind of incomprehensible, and we're now changing the 2005 budget for the Pension Fund, we're helping the village in 2006?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u82	Dear George Mikolaiovich, there is a simple answer to this question. We're going to have a budget deficit in 2006. And when we offer to finance the village, we don't want to increase the budget deficit. So we're proposing that some of the expenses be transferred from 2006 to 2005, where the budget deficit is absolutely still, has a strong reserve. As for the Pension Fund's expenses. They're not too expensive for him, and he'll be able to prepare for advance payments next year. So 27-28 December, usually, the Pension Fund, within these two days, is sending this money to all the pension offices and 1 number or 2 our pensioners can come and get it on time, because it takes 2-3 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u83	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u84	Peter Simonck, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u85	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u86	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Well, first of all, there won't be any withdrawals from the next year's budget, and we don't have to tell you here in terms of how you pull a card player out of your sleeve and add 10 billion to your budget. If the economy doesn't work, if the base price for gas is not determined, if next year the failure is the most complete in the way that the Government is currently representing in the budget, if you close the hole this year with money that we have only voted at lunchtime or before lunch that these funds are being sent back to savings, what is the result then of our vote and the usefulness of this vote? Indeed, the truth is that there is now fraud, there is a pre-election lie, there is a fraud of intentional retirees, that they are allegedly betraying nothing in the next quarter of the following year, except that they are now denied and more will be failed, because the Government has not decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u87	Dear Petr Nikolayevich, believe that as the head of the budget committee today, even if I have a temporary commitment, I can criticize the government and its policies a thousand times more because I see real economic figures. But one thing when we criticize you and the other is to make that decision. It is justified, it is right, and Parliament itself has proposed that this problem be resolved. We want to create inflation and deficits next year. We want the citizens' money to stay at the level of that inflationary today without even increasing it, although we know the higher the inflation rate, the more the income comes to zero, so believe me, I can agree with you here, but this law is what we need today, first of all, to meet our obligations to pensioners. And I'm sure this is our primary position with you. And it doesn't matter what position the government is taking on this issue today. If we're convinced we have to do this, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u88	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u89	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I recall that I worked in the Pension Fund system until I was a member of the delegation. I declare as a specialist: Today the Pension Fund has fulfilled all its obligations to pensioners in 2005. But you and I are taking half a month off in January, and the real resources of the Pension Fund aren't going to come. And we can get a situation where it's not just money for January pensions. Well, what are we talking about here?Oh, my God! And it is absolutely right here: to give 1.6 billion to cover the cash gap, which will be mandatory in January and February of next year. That was from year to year. And based on that logic, we have to give the Pension Fund a $1.6 billion worth of bracelets. By doing so, there will be no break in the payment of pensions in January and February. Everything else, believe me, it's from the evil one when they start talking about some other element in this matter. We must remember that January and February are empty on income. And we do not accept this decision to undermine the systematic and stable payment of the pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u90	Yes, Lilia Grigorovitch. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u91	Lilia Grigorovich, Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. Ludmila Pavlovna, I have a question about the village, but about rural medicine. The changes made to the Budget Code are designed to finance the fap from the district budget. At the same time, paragraph 33. Article 71 of the draft Budget Law, which is proposed for the following year, is suspended. This is bad in a year of rural development. Therefore, I would like to add in this sub-paragraph the words “except for the field obstetric and obstetric points”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u92	Dear Mrs. Lila, we're going to be looking at other bills, number 8,000, concerning the adoption of the Budget Act next year. And I'll explain what the problem is and why we're proposing to uphold this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u93	Yes, all right, thank you, Ludmila Pavlovna. Have a seat, please. We've only got one Igor Shurma sign up for this. Please, let's do the show. Three minutes and we'll make a decision. That's where the tape ended, that's all. Igor Shurma's microphone. Come here, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u94	Igor Shurma, faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, especially those who listen to the broadcast today, simply want to mislead us today. Why are there pensioners in the first quarter with their pensions? Why doesn't the government say that they've been spending all the money from the Pension Fund? Why aren't we saying today that this billion 600 million, that it's not from the state treasury, that it's the money that's being removed from the Chrysalis? Now, to those MPs who are going to press the green "for" button today, please say, are you acting like the executive authority of today by double standards? I am convinced that no, you voted today in favour of a bill that provides for the distribution of funds in the "Criminals". And it clearly states that where the money from the “criminals ” is to be involved and where it will be used. Since privatization this year, and we're told that only from privatization do we take this billion 600 million, our nation has received only 700 million dollars from privatization. So the other money is purely privatization costs. So when we talk about the workload next year, we'll talk about these things when we vote for the 2006 budget. And today, on these things that we are offered, on the basis of concessions from the ‘Criminal’, we cannot vote definitively for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, now, one minute, it's Victor Mikhailovich. I just want to say one thing, it's not written anywhere that it's "Criminal" money. We've passed a law to make up for the loss of people's savings, if the President signs it, it'll be the law. Nowhere is written here: “1.5 billion to transfer to the Pension Fund”. If both the law and the law are signed, let the government look for funds. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Let the government look for funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bulk of pension payments are made in the first half of the month. During this year, the Pension Fund has never experienced problems, and Ukrainian pensioners received their pension at the proper time each month. This was done by the government, lending at the end of each month to the Pension Fund, which enabled all Ukrainian pensioners to pay their pensions in a timely manner. But the year is ending, and budget legislation does not allow the government to lend a budget loan to the Pension Fund. In order for the Ukrainian pensioners to receive their pension on time from January 1, 27, 28 December, the system needs to be run over. So this is a technological solution that is proposed. And this decision will allow for the full and timely retirement of Ukrainian pensioners. The government supports and proposes to vote for this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, let's follow procedure. We've got two other national MPs written down here: Nadrag and Shufrich. They'll come out, then we'll decide, we'll make decisions. I'm asking you not to write it down. The entry goes when it has to be done. Please, Dear and then Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak to you again in this room about where and why this money is needed. First and foremost. In all past years, by the beginning of the New Year, the Pension Fund had been raising resources to transfer money to the city, district, pension offices in January in order to disburse pensioners. This year did not succeed because all of its resources plus budget grants and loans were directed by the Pension Fund to the payment of current pensions. And the situation is that, on January 1, there will simply be no money in the Pension Fund's accounts. Accordingly, on the schedule of our 15 million pensioners in January will not receive their pension. That's all. And based on that logic, we can argue whether we agree or not, but if we don't vote for 1.6 billion, the pension payment schedule is broken in January-February. Because there is, among other things, an intra-annual cycle of resources to the Pension Fund, zero, practically, in January, a little life in February, peaking by May/June, I speak as a specialist. But unfortunately, we can't tell the retirees that we'll pay you our pension debts in May-June. We have to give it to them in January. We're like a state. No matter what kind of power it is. And according to this logic, it is quite correct to say that we must pay 1.6 billion to pay today's pension fund system a prepayment and, starting on 2-3 January, to retirees on schedule. And that's all. Everything else, I think, in this case, I'm asking for a tautology application, I've already said it, it's from the evil one. Because the end of the pension schedule will not explain anything to you, nor our political sympathy, nor our economic difficulties. Today it is a non-political problem. But if we don't have a pension from 1 January, then I think we should have a collegiate responsibility to the pensioners. Let us be consistent in our statements and actions when all of us from this rostrum say what we think of the people. Let's think about the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u99	Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, let's speak the truth after all. And in the past year and in the past year, we have always started a year, including with pensions. And we haven't asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to give us any money. I'll tell you why. Because we had them because we didn't steal them, and because we didn't finance NATO through the pensioners. What's going on today? We all suffered in the morning together in our first reading of the law that we should send money from the Crimsons to pay off public debt for contributions to Sberbank. What's going on now? Why lie? After all, the Minister of Finance said that the money that came from Krivorostali - 1.6 billion needed them to close the gaps in the Pension Fund budget. Why not do so from other sources, reduce costs, blowbacks, which are now being diverted incomprehensibly. What we can say when the Minister for Emergency Situations at a time when in a country of abdominal typhoid, when a bird flu says that the first thing he starts to do is to use toilets is Baloga. So here are the toilets to do -- that's all you can do -- you've brought the state to bankruptcy. And today, with popular money, you sell an enterprise that belonged to the people, as you said in Maidan, you take that money from your own people today by covering your bankruptcy obligations. And today, whoever pushes the button for this law should know that 1.6 billion bracelets are selected for their own people, those to whom everyone who comes to the county will say, "We have fought and voted for your contributions." So you have to tell people the truth that instead of cutting costs, reviewing your policies, you are simply continuing to choose the people of Ukraine, those people who have been waiting for compensation for many years, and at least 25 per cent of those debts we have today. Gentlemen! Admit your bankruptcy, don't torture yourself or people, we could have done it for three years, we could work, and we didn't ask for money, and all the pensions not only paid, but increased them. Step aside if you are unable to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u101	Please sign in 3 minutes before the vote. Sign up, please. Three minutes. Here comes the recording. Yes, Michael Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for the second consecutive year, the Ministry of Finance has been trying to adopt an anti-national budget, a budget that has led to the total collapse of our economy. And, thank God, the Supreme Council can stop such a budget. So, look, all the formation of the current budget is built on some cloudy figures that will never be implemented. This suggests that this budget will not be implemented. And if the Government admits today that they no longer have the money to pay their pensions, it is clear that the Government can no longer stay in its workplaces. I therefore support the statement made by my colleague, Schufric, and invite that Government to give way to those people who will be able to govern the country with dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u103	Yes, please, who do we have? Michael Loboda, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u104	I'd like to give Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u105	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u106	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! No wonder the Government now comes with such a proposal. First, we all know very well that the entire Government, with the exception of the units, is going to the elections. They will not have to work since January, but they will have to hold elections. They do not believe in their own destiny and thus throw all the people of Ukraine at risk. I believe that the Communist faction is proposing that the issue of mistrust be considered immediately by the Government and who is willing to sign from the faction, please sign. That's a first. And secondly, I have a more constructive proposal. Since the first January of next year, political reform has begun. The President's functions are shrinking dramatically, so let's give this money, and that's a few hundred million bracelets, and we're going to give it to the pensioners. We will also find out about other services. On the wages of the Cabinet of Ministers, what an undeserving 20 thousand bracelets receive is also reduced and then retirees are given to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u107	Alexander's Bandoon, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u108	Alexander Bandurka, National Block of Lithuania. Deputies! Dear Head! With the adoption of the 2006 budget by articles 38.1 and 38, and 110 of the pensioner's status, he'll lose almost a third of the pensioner's pension and the pensioner's pension. This may be the case, even though we need to improve our situation today by making the appropriate decision that we are now discussing. And the time I have left, I want to pass on Hirschveld to Anatoly Mosesovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u109	Please, Hirschveld's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u110	Dear colleagues! Regrettably, this budget does not fully reflect the criteria under which the budget can be called the development budget. The provisions of the law relating to investment have not been reinstated. Investments, both domestic and foreign, are now taxed. That's why it won't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u111	Dear National Deputies! We discussed the problem. Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u112	Dear colleagues! Ludmila Pavlovna or Viktor Mikhailovich, say, please, it's beautifully written here in this part where the law is. And here's where you give the table, and it says, "The foundation of government property is not to count 1.6 billion." Where 10 billion go, who'll tell me. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm informing you that this is a long time ago not in the State Property Fund accounts, but in the State Treasury accounts. And they're stored there. Funding, spending only takes place under the 2005 State Budget Act of Ukraine approved by you. As for sums, there is an estimated amount of one billion six hundred million dollars. And once again, this is the technological amount that is needed to start paying pensions on time from the third number, the second or third number.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u114	Yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea, yea! I ask that you complete the consultations. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. Registration number 8589. Please vote. [[17:49:50]] For 249 Decision taken. Wait, I haven't told you yet. Please wait. So let's give the commission for the next Tuesday to prepare for the consideration and adoption of this law. I'm begging you! Nestor Ivanovich! I said, in accordance with the Rules, to accept the bill as a basis. I ask the committee to work on the next plenary week so that we can make the right decision. All of it. Yeah, it's called for consideration of the question of. One minute, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u115	Dear friends! An extremely simple question. Please take the law into your hands. Left column. A digit is written. It's an active rule of law. 8.6 billion. It's the right column. 10.2. Subtract one digit from the other and you'll get 1.6 billion dollars. It's different. This figure has long been secured by the State Property Fund. So it's a technical law. There's a request, there's nothing to rule here. There is a request to vote for him in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! I'm helping Victor Mikhailovich. A recorded figure of 8 billion. But the privatisation coming this year, with the exception of the “Criminals”, was carried out by 800 million. So these 8 billion that have not been executed add another 2 billion and 10 billion from Creebrals are taken into the State budget. Here's your number.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u117	Let's do that. People's Honourable Deputies! Let's do it this way. So that we don't have a storm in the hall so that we can now review the draft budget, we've adopted the bill as a basis, I'm asking you to give the order, and we're giving the commission for Tuesday to prepare it for adoption in the final. Not many days, it'll be next week's plenary. Let us work without disturbances and do not violate the Rules. All of it. A draft Law is being announced for consideration. Nestor Ivanovich, please calm down! A draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 is being announced for consideration. [[resecond reading]] This is a time limit for consideration of this issue, honourable colleagues: a report by the Minister of Finance, within 10 minutes, an answer to the rapporteur's questions, within 10 minutes, a report by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, within 10 minutes, an answer to questions, within 10 minutes, a decision-making exercise of five minutes. We can't have this discussion. That's why we need, honourable colleagues, the issue announced, to work on this issue before it's finished. Please. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Raise your stenographers when we were working when we needed to. This is what the country needs right now. All of it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u118	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Yuri Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed with the Committee on Budgets for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006. This project is the result of the difficult reconciliation that has been achieved in the course of the work of the Budget Committee of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What are the main results of this process? Revenues and expenditures of the State Budget have been clarified. They're reduced by 2.2 billion dollars. This decline was mainly due to the income and expenditure of the Special Budget Fund and was not related to real income reductions. This is about taking into account VAT revenue for agricultural products. This resource remains at the disposal of the agricultural sector, but will not be included in the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. That's why, and the adjusted figure of income, of expenditure. Saved by an unalterable budget deficit, it amounts to 12.9 billion dollars, or 2.5 percent of gross domestic product. We were able to agree on a reduction in tax burden. Although this decrease is less than the government has proposed, the first step in this direction will be made on January 1st of the following year. It refers to the reduction in payroll, the cancellation of customs congregations, the reduction of purchase rates, and the sale of currency. The Global Fund for Local Budgets has increased by $5.6 billion. In this amount, for the first time since 2006, local budgets have been channelled into centralized measures and programmes worth 659 million dollars. They will account for the income of these budgets because of the daily tax deduction. There has been a double increase in subsidies for investment projects in the regions. In addition, 3.3 billion dollars are included in the local budget special fund. Of these, 2 billion dollars have been allocated to the settlement of debt issues from local budgets. Compared to the first version of the budget, the cost of supporting animal and plant production has been tripled. We also agreed with the proposal to remove VAT from the Special Fund's budget for agricultural products, which is also used to support agricultural production. As a result of long-term discussions, the government's position on saving the budget of the agrarian sector's money-pending programme is supported. For its part, the government agreed with the proposal to channel part of the over-planned revenue from privatization into long-term loans to village projects. The project has increased the cost of developing the coal industry by 900 million dollars. The government’s programs to support basic medicine in rural areas have been preserved. They relate to the provision of a field-based obstetric and obstetric points, which includes 7,000 dollars, rural outpatients, 32,000 dollars, and the purchase of ambulances in each region of Ukraine, one car at a time. Unfortunately, we were unable to reach agreement on the cost of energy conservation. And this problem is extremely acute for Ukraine. The compromise is that investment projects will provide part of energy savings. In addition, it has been possible to divert part of the funds from over-planned revenues for privatized energy projects. Ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged to inform you of the risks that the draft budget entails for the following year. First of all, it's a budget deficit, and 2.5% to GDP is a critical country deficit. Taking this step, the government allowed it to increase from 2% to 2.5% GDP based on expenditure of a single nature. Expenses that will not be repeated in the coming years. First of all, we referred to energy conservation projects. The structure of the deficit has now deteriorated significantly, although its size has remained the same. The increase in deficits took place largely on the basis of the constant, repeated expenditure to be financed each year. We need to realize that this poses problems for years to come, and the country will not escape these problems. They'll still have to be decided. The government is concerned about another situation. The budget is a balance. The current budget law lists all revenue according to the corresponding direction of expenditure. Recently, however, laws are increasingly being passed, which on the one hand lead to budget losses and, on the other hand, to expenditure that is not foreseen by the budget law. This leads to the destruction of the budget, the inability to comply with many laws. We understand the period in which the country lives, but the country has to live after the elections. That is why we call on the Ukrainian national deputies to refrain from introducing laws that balance the budget. Third moment. The budget expenditure for both this year and 2006 is approved by the project by way of overexpenditures, i.e. deficits. As a source of its coverage, the State Budget Act has determined the coming of privatization. Yes, this year, 8.6 billion dollars from privatization are to go to the expense of the bill you have voted on. At the same time, today's bill, which provides for other directions for the use of funds than those provided for in the current Budget Act. Please tell me, what law should be governed by government, and how many times will the same funds be shared? At the same time, the funds already spent in accordance with the State Budget 2005 Act have been approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to inform you, in particular, that the government has received 20.6 billion dollars from privatization, of which 19.9 billion dollars from the privatisation of the “Criminals”, 700 million dollars from the privatization of other objects. They are all spent in accordance with the 2005 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been very difficult looking for reconciled positions, looking for the country to have a 2006 budget. The draft budget given to you is not simple; it is not a simple product; it is sometimes a controversial compromise; it is rather problematic, but it involves many and good decisions to be made since January 1, 2006. Let me remind all of us, with this budget, the government has foreseen raising minimum wages and pensions. This budget provides for the full payment of pensions to former military pensioners. There are 2.6 billion dollars on this issue. The budget provides funding for an increase in pensions in 2.5 - 3.5 times for the first group of invalids involved in the liquidation of accidents at the Chernobyl station. 50 per cent of the disability pension to members of the Professional Service. Many other social programs are being implemented. The non-admission of the budget blocks the possibility of implementing these programs. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes to support this difficult document. In the hot discussions, we looked for an agreed position on each point. The budget is a balance where each article affects either income or expenditure. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to vote in favour of this document as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u119	Yes, Victor Mikhailovich, and you still need time? Are you done? Questions, respectable colleagues, 10 minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Ludmila Kirichenko, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u120	Thurman's Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u121	You're handing over Turmanov? Please, Turman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u122	Victor Mihajlovich, I address you, I address Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich. Yesterday we had the Conciliation Council, where I took part and raised problems regarding the financing of the coal industry. Yesterday Yuri Ivanovich said we would take your suggestions into account. No one studied today, no suggestions. The budget today is 4.2 billion. Of these, 2.1 billion SPFs. Fifty percent. This year we're with Special Forces 8. They haven't received anything in nine months. They didn't introduce 30 lions. Two and a half million lost their production. Today, miners don't get paid. I'm addressing you, Yuri Ivanovich. I asked you yesterday, you said we'd make things right. But today these figures have worsened, and this is just the destruction of the coal industry. And I want to tell you, Victor Mikhailovich, as far as you're concerned, you're always making miners very bad and painful.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u123	Dear friends, let's not turn a purely economic document into a political one. Please take the document, compare the figures and show me, please come out with me, compare the two digits for the first reading of the coal industry and how many now. You want me to give an arithmetic meter or a calculator, or we'll figure it out together. The increase in funding for the coal industry is plus 900 million dollars compared to the first reading. Of these, 200 million dollars are provided at the expense of the general fund. And by the way, as far as this year goes, coal programs are one of those programs that are primarily funded by the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u124	George Ponomarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u125	George Ponomarenko, factions of Communists. Viktor Mikhailovich, confirm to me that Vladimir Mikhailovich knew that one and six ten billion, these are the costs of “Croebristali” and this is not the evening that the entire deficit of 2005 will be, apart from 700 million, we will be at the expense of the “Croats”. And the second. Confirm that 1.6 billion of these are already in the 2006 budget. If we didn't adopt this previous law in the second reading, we don't have to look at the 2006 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, Ukraine has approved a budget with deficits for several years. Let me try again to explain what the budget deficit is. This is an excess of income over expenditure. It's a rule of law. If incomes of 100 billion, expenditure of 110 billion, raises the question of how to secure expenditure of 10 billion. I'll tell you what I'm talking about, because it's income 10. The second question is, What is the source of these expenses? They could be two, either borrowing money, living in debt, or a second source -- coming from privatization. The State Budget Act of Ukraine has been voted by you in the Supreme Council of Ukraine: “The source of funding for the budget deficit is coming from privatization.” This amount is set at 8.6 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to We are implementing the law that you have voted on. And it comes from privatization of 8.6 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the This year will be focused on your expenses. In fact, there were a lot of social programs among these expenses. If we want privatization funds to go beyond this goal, we are short: we need to adopt a deficitless budget. On the other hand, to live in debt, you know very well how this ended for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u127	Boris Andresuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u128	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievni please pass on the word. Vasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u129	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u130	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian National Block. Mr. Secretary, with regard to our cooperation in budgeting, you did go to meet our faction and accounted for inter-budget transfers to local budgets. We are truly grateful for this. And I think we're not the only ones who will be grateful. But that question about the agrarian section, supporting the agricultural sector, is the absolute coven that you gave us. First. An article on vines has not been removed, as we agreed. You're still leaving credits for the garden, for the grapes and for the hops. Next. You give 1 billion to invest in the development of new technologies completely without a mechanism and you write: from privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u131	Dear Catherine Timofievna! First. We agreed, if there's agreement between both the committee and the Supreme Council, we're ready to change the position on the grapes, from the lending regime to put direct funding on the grapes. It's different. Let's look at what's now done in the agrarian sector. It wasn't easy for us to have a discussion because we had a lot of different positions, but for the first time, we're increasing the amount of grants three times. We've never had that kind of growth before. About 600 million this year and 1 billion 850 million next year. And the third thing I'd like to pay attention to. The question of where children's money is not a matter of the Ministry of Finance, it's a common position. And there's only one problem. I keep stressing this problem. There's an extra resource next year, let's try to divide it. If we think we don't have to give this direction, there's a more important direction, let's use the policy of priorities to determine the direction. But what is the deadlock, what has always been the difference? What if they try to split more than the money is there. Yesterday we reached a compromise, a complicated compromise, in an uncomplicated discussion. There is a request for this compromise to be approved by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u132	Please, Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u133	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Victor Mikhailovich, you have shown by your work in the two governments of Victor Yushchenk that, in fact, the interests of the state are higher for you than the pre-election situation and have achieved that we now have a balanced budget. I'd like to ask you about the financing of the Department of Defense Intelligence. They were asking about higher pay levels that they didn't get in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u134	Dear friends, I would like to stress, above all, that we had a very difficult budget this year. I can say'small' calmly because this year's budget will be implemented by income. And all commitments of a social nature to raise wages, pensions, 57th Education Act and other social benefits, we have implemented and implemented them by the end of the year. And we have no liability for any of the principals. As for the next year’s payments, we took them into account, not only on social terms but also on intelligence. Even yesterday, while redesigning the budget, new amounts of money were partially added.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u135	Victor Taran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u136	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear reporter, six billion rubles, I can make very few mistakes, and in Russia, it's going to develop a Russian language that's not in danger. Ukrainian 30 million That's right. In Ukraine, 0.75 books are published for one person. Compare five in Belarus, 12 in Germany, and so on. I mean, it's a pathetic piece of print, it's a movie, it's like that. I could call numbers, you know. Question: Excuse me, the one you are going to build Ukraine, which is completely out of focus on spiritual development. And the second. Since privatization, you have received 800 million dollars. That's right. That is, only 10 percent of the privatization plan has been implemented. So here's the "Criminal," which you're trying to put in when it's off-budgeted, it's not budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u137	Honestly, I'd like to ask Victor Terrence to explain it to me, because I don't understand at all what difference does it make to privatizing the "Crutals" or to any other object? It's privatization. I'm informing you that for this cancer -- once again, the income from privatization -- is already 20.6 billion dollars at this point. True, there is no evidence of where the money is, for we have an account alone, but this sum is far greater than the law provides. And some of them are accounted for by Treasury as planned revenues from privatization, and the other as over-planned revenue from privatization in a separate account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u138	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. I'm sorry. Report of the Acting Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Ludmila Pavlovna Dear colleagues, when we started the question, we have to finish the discussion, and here we have the contradictions between regulation and practice. Please. Yes, please, Sophia Pavlovna. Let's finish the question. We're fast, dear colleagues. Quickly. Please, Ludmila Pavlovna. Please, Ludmila Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u139	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I can tell. That I'm going to the rostrum for the first time and I'm so worried. It's not because of the difficult situation in Parliament today, not because it's an extremely difficult situation in the economy. In fact, it is up to Parliament today to see how much it can consolidate its own intellectual efforts and overcome this crisis, and I would call it more of a political crisis that has matured in society. We've been preparing the budget for almost three months to give it to you as the country's main economic document for 2006. It's completely different from the project that came on September 15th to the Supreme Council. We have tried on the budget committee, which consists of representatives of completely all factions and groups, primarily to work effectively, in the interests of the economy, in the interests of the people of Ukraine, supporting and implementing those political programmes that have parties represented in Parliament. That is why when this law came to Parliament, we suggested that it not even be considered and returned to the government. But at the time, the government was already retired, and there was really no one to enforce that law. With that in mind and not wanting to leave the country without a budget, without stability for the next year, we took this document to work. We've been liquidated for these three months, dear colleagues, completely all the omens that remained outside the state budget's income. That's why this budget today has an income increase of more than 10 billion dollars. And we think that we've managed to eliminate many of the programs behind which the incomprehensible costs were hidden, some of these programs have long since ended: some in 2003, others in 2005, the third in 2005. Unfortunately, not all programs exist for the following year. Let me give you an example. The committee was sometimes accused of eliminating or reducing energy savings. We want the money paid by taxpayers to be used effectively, not embezzled, because giving the computer to a Neanderthal means it will break the nuts. So we suggested leaving only those programs, only those projects that primarily lead to real money to a particular consumer of government services -- to a citizen. That's why, my dear colleagues, we've set a few priorities with you. The first priority is the local budgets. In our budget conclusions, we proposed that an additional 5 billion dollars should be allocated to local budgets in order to provide basic expenses. It's not a luxury, it's an elementary cost: pay on time, pay for energy and utilities on time. And a small amount of money that can be used to meet the nation’s basic obligations to its citizens: to remove garbage from the yard, to carry out conservation measures, to repair elevators, and to glass glass in schools that are broken down. And so we tried to give local self-government at least any tool to make citizens feel not the masses of people who just get paid, but the territorial community, the people who share territorial interests. We've done this. And in the budget presented today for your consideration, local budgets today have an additional resource of 5 billion dollars. In doing so, 1 billion dollars is directed directly to capital investments in the region. I can tell you that the second priority we've set with you is spending on the APC. We've heard many times that we're going to have the year of the village that 2006 is the year of the restoration of the village. In fact, in the 2006 budget, which was presented in the first reading of no restoration of the village and no income for the village. And there was no support for the village, actually. We offered to support you with a simple and transparent mechanism when you did not have to go to the clerk and ask for funds. This mechanism of European level and meaning and content. This is a direct grant to the sown hectare, or to a farmed kilogram of cattle. This procedure is now foreseen in the budget that you are considering, almost 1 billion 900 million dollars, instead of 600 million dollars. Which were previously foreseen in the first-reading project. We offer to support such a mechanism in the future. Because it ensures the peasant’s independence. Regrettably, such funds are not enough today. But the first step is surely to be taken with you. As a result, in carrying out the Supreme Council’s mandate, the committee insisted that the village’s spending should be directed in the form of grants. Our third priority was absolutely elementaryly balanced and understandable. We've noted to the government that the government has actually taken revenge on the coal sector, without increasing a penny in terms of an increase in wages, given the increase in energy supplies, it hasn't increased the corresponding subsidies to cover the cost of coal costs. What does this mean for a private citizen? This means only one thing that such a coal worker today would have had or would have had to pay wages for tomorrow. So we've defined this as a priority, and the budget takes into account the costs needed to cover the cost of coal. Dear colleagues, regarding the budget deficit next year. We realize that there is always a need for a balanced economic fiscal policy so that the money that can flow from the emissions does not cause a frenzy of inflation in our country. Because then, even if citizens' income increases, they can turn into powder, because you can't even buy a match for them. So we kept the budget deficit within 2.5 percent. By the way, the European standard today is three percent. And many countries in Europe today, unfortunately, cannot stand the standard, so they are seven or nine, as France or Germany did. So we balanced the budget completely according to the requirements that were set out in the budget conclusions. This is not the government's budget. This is a budget that we've developed with the involvement of professionals, with the involvement of the Supreme Council specialists, putting first of all the main thing in front of us is to maintain stability and ensure economic growth in this country. I understand that maybe today politics will not allow us to accept this budget as a whole, so, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you to go through the procedure provided for in the Budget Code. We should, at least on the second reading, approve the basic parameters of income, expenditure, deficit or surplus and transfer for local budgets. Local budgets are much better formed than the government has proposed. The local budgets will be satisfied that we are going to offer them such a change today. And so I'm addressing you, my dear colleagues, so that this process can move forward, so that we can release local self-government to form local budgets under new standards, even if they need transfer rates. And that will mean that we have made our commitment at this stage as the Supreme Council clearly fulfilled, despite the fact that we today have to work for both the Supreme Council and the entire government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, is there a question? Please sign up for 10 minutes. Yes. Alexander Pecklusenko, “Regions of Ukraine”. Then Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u141	The distinguished Ludmila Pavlovna, a respected Government, is not here in this room, especially in our faction, any person who would not want to accept the budget. We do not want to adopt the budget in such a way and in such a state. The basic things you're talking about, besides me as a national deputy, the Mayor of Zaporozhye is interested in getting the city, the area that got my district? That was not the case in one year of my delegation's work. We went to Kabmin, we met, we talked, we knew we were receiving a budget with our eyes closed. Now, from the first reading to today, the average budget per day has increased by 100 million, in 30 days to 3 billion. Let's wait and see if we can increase by at least 3 billion. For three billion, and seriously, I invite the Minister of Finance, you, to our faction. Let's talk, let's find compromises.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u142	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u143	Dear Mr. Alexander, I am sure that today we are forced as the Budget Committee to perform this function instead of the government. Because the budget should be of primary interest to the government. So we're ready to go into every line, every calculation, and you'll see that we've found some good economic decisions. I can tell you that three months was three months of war with the government. Because at every suggestion we made, we had virtually met up with opposition. And only through great effort and compromises did we finally convince ourselves that what is right is behind us. So we're ready at any time, if this is defined jointly by the faction and we define with the committee, we meet and we explain all the positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u144	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u145	The Communist faction, Cibenko, is the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, please tell us how you can vote for a budget in which the so-called increase in the living minimum for non-working people is based on a basic pension, does not even cover inflation. You know that tomorrow's 350 is less than today's 332. The other one. It does not eliminate the imbalance in the pension security of military personnel. You realize that article 38.1 will not allow this to happen, and this needs to be isolated separately. Third. What's called compromise under the Children of War Act is not really a compromise. That's a brutal lie. I want to draw attention to the fact that today's President, today's Prime Minister for the Children of War Act, voted as well as their factions, and today they are actively baptized. The Communist faction is similar to that of support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u146	Dear Peter Stepanovich, believe me, we were only trying to improve the document presented by the government. And we were trying to completely localize all of the total revenue that was outside the government budget. You and I have the power to determine more priorities. We can approve revenue and expenditure if there's no reference to these two general indicators, and then in the next week, we can work out how the principles and parameters will guide the state budget to the implementation of all the laws: both children of war, and those relating to social benefits, and those relating to Chernobyl pensions and expenditures. So I could say that we've collected all the revenue. Let's determine how and what priorities we finance, we're ready to cooperate, and we insist that all the laws, at least, the Children of War Act, which today has gained enormous publicity, people are waiting for it, they're asking us all the time, it's certainly been introduced. With regard to pension benefits in relation to article 38.1. We have considered this article very carefully and it speaks of the following, where only one word has changed, but a completely different meaning. The government suggested that the law of retroactive action, that is, those who had already received retirement benefits, should limit their pension payments. We think that this is completely contrary to the Constitution. Thus, it has been noted that only those categories that will retire in 2006 can apply a certain standard, with salaries and pensions counted in the last 24 months. By the way, I'm reminding you that before our legislation was more stable, and I remember very well when in the mid-80s, studying this legislation, in the law school of the University of Kiev, we saw that these bills were coming in the last five years, because then people's incomes were stable, they weren't so eaten up by inflation. We have actually two years, 24 months. But this article does not have that kind of reverse power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u147	Alexander Bandurka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u148	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party. Sophia Pavlovna, I want to go back to article 38 with a single badge. The average wage of 24 months will be one third less than three months in 2004. Because the real wage only went up in 2004. In the second half. And now, by calculating the average wage of two years in 24 months, we're making the pensioner's position much worse. And you're a little bit maybe insincere or not exactly saying that the benefits we're taking from Article 38 will benefit the pensioner. That's not true. All pensioners lose, state service, military service, they lose half their pension, if not one third! We really need to look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u149	Dear Alexander Markovich, I would like to remind you of a story that was discussed in very detail in our hall. You remember when one of these pensioners received 480,000 pension payments at the expense of what. He collected, Alexander Markovich, all the vacations, all the payments, everything he could get, all the compensation, and he got a huge pension. This does not apply entirely to any of the categories of pensioners who work and retire today. But 24 months is the norm, by the way, which he agreed with completely and professionally, and the Ministry of Defense, and the Ministry of Finance, and we found an understanding in the hall. Because in one month, a person can count what is needed. And we have to assume that pensions are actually the average amount of income that a person should keep on retirement. Well, I don't know, maybe I'm wrong about that. But let us leave the point that, unfortunately, not everyone is using this law in a just way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u150	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u151	Yukhnowsky, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, you know that Kiev's transport problem is very tense. In this regard, construction, metrobuding, and construction are of particular importance. 200 million bracelets that are set for methrumbling, but nothing is said about the city of Kiev. Among other things, 90 million were provided for the city of Kyiv, according to Appendix 7. It's not there. Tell me, is this a mechanical error or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u152	Dear Igor Raphaelovich, thank you for paying attention to this unfortunate mistake. Indeed, the figure 90 is in the general line, but it is not written that it is to the city of Kiev. I ask that we take this into account. Like the target subsidy for designing a bridge in the city of Cremenchuz of 10 million dollars at the expense of Ukrawtodor. Therefore, we will take this into account when we adopt the document and prepare it for the final vote. We have also come up with another figure that relates to the cost of preparing for the Olympics. Unfortunately, we didn't count it under code 3403030 -- that's 30 million dollars at the expense of our balance sheet. So I would like to take this into account. Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u153	Valeriy Suškevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u154	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u155	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u156	BUT faction, National Deputy Suškević. Ludmila Pavelno, I don't want to comment on the percentage of the social problems of people with disabilities. The only thing I want to look at right now is the 41 articles I told you about at the Budget Committee meeting and the 24th item where 50 percent of the Social Protection Fund is expected to spend on early rehabilitation centers. I'm noting that this is the sum of several million more than I need, and I've taken the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as much as I need. And now we're eliminating other expenses that relate to the rehabilitation of people with disabilities, the employment of people with disabilities, the support of businesses with disabilities, that is, there's a whole set of problems that this is about. I'm asking you to correct this protocol error that is today. There is a situation where costs are higher than those required by this program.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u157	Dear Valery Mikhailovich, thank you for reminding me of another rather serious type of change that we made in this budget. I can say that we have twice offered to increase the cost of treating children with tuberculosis. We've offered to increase the sanitation treatment of these children. We also supported your offer to provide for those with two or more disabled in the family. They've also added 10 million dollars and 15 million dollars for sanitation treatment of spinach disabled people, and that's important. With regard to this article, I ask that we clarify it in editorial terms, along with the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Labour, so that the expenditure in this article is precisely in line with the requirements of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u158	Igor Yukhnovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u159	Yukhnovsky. I didn't make the deal. Ludmila Pavlovno, there were 30 million in the previous budget for the development of Ukrainian language, and now there are 20 million. First. The other one. You didn't say you were bragging about adding to the pensioners and so on, and you didn't say a word about it. That you've added 100 million dollars to science, and that way we can build a modern computing cluster across Ukraine, we can connect the Kyiv and Kharkiv line, we can build a modern gene-engineering center. Why don't you call yourself that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u160	Dear Igor Rafielovich! Thank you for reminding me of science. And I'm going to give you a quick answer to the questions about the Ukrainian language. Dear Igor Raphaelovich! Dear colleagues! Where should any government start? From the program, from the socio-economic development programme, to make it clear where he's sending the money, and what he wants to do as a result: economic, social or political. We have identified priority and science because we understand that without combining Ukrainian science with European Ukraine will be doomed to ignorance. And today, instead of prioritising computer technology for everyone without the exclusion of schools in a city in a rural district center, we spend money entirely on other programs. As far as the English language is concerned. In fact, there's only 10 million in the government program. We added another 10 even above the government's existing and approved program. And last of all, I want to add, because, really, we didn't count, at such a hasty pace, working that we were offered to build the Podil bridge crossing in Kiev to pay more than the amount determined by privatization, up to 200 million dollars. a bracelet to reduce the pressure on the movement between the various parts of Kiev, which are actually blocking the connection and entering the city itself. As far as the programs are concerned, Igor Rafailovich, I want to conclude, because my time is running out for answers, I can say that I am confident that in this room and in this country there is a huge intellectual potential that is being ignored, used today, and from this Ukraine will never live better, because only if there is political will, Igor Rafailovich, and only if there is adequate political will in this Supreme Council, will the people of Ukraine live better. And you and I have to take the budget and vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u161	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Now, one minute, please sit down. For reasons of vote, please sign in. Five minutes. For reasons of vote. As long as the record goes, this is the sequence of voting: we're putting to the vote a project that the committee will propose. If no decision is made, we will consider other suggestions. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Alexander Pecklusenko, "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u162	Alexander Pecklusenko, Zaporozhye region, “Regions”. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I ask once again that no one thinks there is a good government or bad deputies in this room. We won't take the budget, we'll all be bad. That is why we are prepared to adopt a compromise budget that will set you up, not us, and that will set up a country that will produce our constituents. I repeat, I cannot vote blind. We agreed with the Ministry of Finance that the Zaporozhye region, which has been constantly raided by Kiev on gasification issues, is a matter of sinking my territories, which we, the Zaporozhye deputies, are constantly visiting. We've been promised to increase them three times. Nothing has been done. Finally, this multi-stranded bridge of ours! We need to finish this construction. We need to understand that Hortica won't be without the bridge, it's all connected. That is why we ask you convincingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u163	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u164	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u165	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u166	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The faction will not support such a project because many of our proposals, which were aimed at a real increase in the income part of the budget, are not perceived by the Government and are clearly not understood for what reasons. Second. This is not the country's development budget, it is the country's destruction budget, and it is clear to us today in the Hall that manipulation goes public and hides the real causes of the collapse and miscalculation of a colossal government. Third. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the fundamental issues that are expected to be resolved by Chernobyl today are funded by only 25 per cent, the same as the problems of veterans, many under these articles, which exclude the application of the same law. It is also related to the use of the same means as it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u167	Yes, Master Vladimir Jakovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u168	I'd like to speak to Catherine Fomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u169	Katerina Fomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u170	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm addressing you as the head of the local budget subcommittee. Dearly beloved, I understand and I believe that the draft law that is under consideration today has very significant shortcomings and I think that they should be further considered and considered as much as possible. But there are 10 days left for 13,000 local self - government bodies to hold their sessions to approve their budgets in order to raise salaries for teachers and doctors from January 1st. They have to do it. I'm asking you very much, and I would like to vote on inter-budget transfers that are being approved by the second reading. A week to finalize the State Budget Act, take into account all the proposals -- and a week from now, on Thursday, consider the third reading. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u171	Yes, Sergey Slatenko, please. Our Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u172	Sergi Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the way to find compromises has been going on for a long time. We're going back and forth to this question, and once again we're going to talk about that we're going to go back, we're going to work on some of the other things. A legislative act is needed by the State. Budgets are needed, essential, and local budgets, as they are based on the indicators that we place in them. At the same time, I could point out once again that we are returning over a long period of time to making changes and amendments to the budgets already adopted. Therefore, the “Our Ukraine” faction will certainly support the budget. Of course, we believe that these issues should be resolved, and they will be resolved by the government, because the will of the government is to look for solutions to these issues. Once again, at the end of this year, I urge you to find strength and vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u173	Andrew School, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u174	Thank you. Well, of course, here we have to agree with the previous speaker that we need to find a force to vote for this budget, find a force to look people in the eye for this budget, find a force to go back to the region, unfunded and ungassed. I don't know how Zaporezsky was robbed there, but I can tell for Lvivsky, who was most likely robbed. And there are huge problems in my district, I don't say any more in the city of Lviv, which will just not celebrate 750 years from the day of its establishment, because there is no money for it. I'm not going to talk about pensioners, I'm not going to talk about people with disabilities, I'm not going to talk about all the disadvantaged types of society that need the most attention from the government. We really don't have the power, our faction to vote for this budget. I'm sure we should look for and perhaps even find ways to overcome the budget crisis. But not at the expense of the people, nor at the expense of the poorest, of the defenseless. Thus, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko does not support such a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u175	Yes. Dear colleagues, please, Leonid Vernigore. The second time they can't come out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u176	Vernigore, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm happy to hand over a budget expert to Dmitri Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u177	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, we've worked and worked on this budget for quite some time. But I'm going to say that a faction of socialists can't vote for this kind of budget because the unaccounted-for village and the village is set aside to support vegetation, to support animalry very, very little. And, practically, our peasants will continue to be poor. The second question that we cannot support is because the children of war, the law that was passed in this room and voted in favour of the Prime Minister himself. I mean, they didn't count, practically nothing. They took into account only what they have: the extra vacations there are some privileges on some piece of land, and the rest are not. Therefore, we have no right to vote in favour of such a budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u179	Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, Prime Minister of Ukraine May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u180	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, the discussions that have taken place in recent weeks have led us to compromise and, in our opinion, to balance the basic positions of the budget next year. Therefore, the Government now requests that it be voted on in the second reading and in general. And so let's give the Ukrainian economy a chance to work. As far as development is concerned, the 29 billion dollars that are designed for development are going to be able to say that the main parameters that will be set for the next year are going to be implemented. I ask you to vote in general for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We'll vote. We have already voted with motive. Are we going to vote separately, or are we just going to vote in agreement? Are you filming the government? Him? Agreeable, huh? Okay. Dear colleagues, since the government is proposing not to vote for what was the government's project, but to vote for what was agreed, that is, the government is actually calling it off. Therefore, the budget committee's draft law on Ukraine's State Budget 2006 will now be put to the vote. Registration number 80 with acceptance tables in second reading and generally as such. What, what? I am betting on the vote on the revised draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2006, registration number 8200 for adoption on second reading and as a whole as a law. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:50:21]] For 122 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine”, Communists – 0, National Party – 3, “Our Ukraine” – 41, Block of Timoshenko, SPU, National Block, SDPU(o) – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, National Movement of Ukraine – 15, “Trust of the People” – 12, “One Ukraine” – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 10, non-fractional – 10. Dear colleagues, there was a committee proposal, and it was supported, formulated by Catherine Alexandrovna Fomenko. So that we can now vote for income, expenditure, budget deficits and transfers for local budgets so that local budgets can be worked on. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. Income, expenses, deficits, transfers for local budgets. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. I am. Well, we need to make a decision so that people can work on local budgets. [[18:51:33]] For 111 The factions, please. Regions, Communists – Zeros, National Party – 44, Our Ukraine – 1, Block Timoshenko – 0, SPU – 20, National Block – 21, SDPU(O) – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 4, People's Movement of Ukraine, People's Trust, Ukraine, Reforms and Order – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 9, non-fractional – 12. Dear colleagues, let's exchange our thoughts. Let's take as much pressure as possible at least what we agreed on. Please sign up, three minutes, five minutes. We need to make a decision. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Komar, “Ukraine” please. Komar, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u182	Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u183	Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u184	The faction “Regions of Ukraine”, Alexander Pecklusenko. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I believe there is only one way out of this situation. It is now up to you to hold a Conciliation Council and find a compromise on form and content. The issue is serious enough, and we have no right to delay it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u185	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u186	Peter Simonenko, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u187	Peter Simonenko. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues not to relax.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u188	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think we need to draw the right conclusions from this situation. I think they're the next. What we have not voted in favour of the budget, we have done the right thing. But this is the result that the current Government does not have a real plan for the economic and social development of the country. They don't know what they're gonna do, they're not gonna do it. Secondly, the current Government, however declared, has not addressed the root issue, has not offered us a fundamental change in tax policy to society, which would enable all to see how real today the Government's desire to improve the economy. And third. The current Government is going the same way as all previous ones, cutting off and cutting off social benefits that are legally imposed by many categories of citizens and thus ensuring the implementation of the budget. It is a criminal policy and cannot be voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u189	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u190	Oleg Zarubinsky, National Block of Lithuania Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! It seems to us that a certain algorithm of constructiveism was produced and it was sounded by our faction, the Katherina Fomenko People's Party faction. All that has been said, in principle, is the right to have these thoughts, but it's common with what I think everyone can agree with, is the increase in transfers to local budgets. If this is done, you can vote for it. If no one has a serious objection to the income, expenditure and budget deficit of the established budget, it is possible to vote, and anything else that we do not agree with, including what the government has to do about the ten percent actually financing of the agricultural producer, it has to be voted on if it is already included in the third reading. So I think it's constructive enough that we didn't, unfortunately, vote, it was the second in a row. I think you could say that again, it's constructive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u191	Igor Yukhnovsky, please “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u192	I want to talk to Alexander Alexander Frost. Alexander Alexandrovich, isn't this government your government? I want to go to Oleg Grigorovovich Belarus, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko, aren't you with us? And at the end of the day, I want to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have led the Conciliation Councils, you have never spoken against it. Why both parties, the two groups you're actually managing, have spoken against the budget. I just don't get it. That's not clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u193	Dear colleagues. I can answer with a question. Dear Igor Rafailovich, you do not understand that according to the requirements of the Budget Code, there is a vote: income, expenditure, budget deficit and that is the main vote. Why didn't you vote, or do you have no influence on your factions, or do you have no authority? Please, Mikola Rudzkowski, why didn't you vote? Aah! I forgot, now, now, one minute! Well, now, now, I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u194	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. I want to answer Mr. Yuhnowski from Alexander Alexander Frost, I hope. Mr. Yukhnowsky, when a coalition is formed, coalition partners sit down, advise, and, as part of their joint programmes, build a budget that is presented to the Supreme Council. And now I want to go to the government and to the factions that form the coalition. Dear colleagues, we need not vote separately in the session room, we need 226 votes to support the budget. I think everyone here in this session room wants to go to New Year's budget. And that's why we have to do it in stages. We can vote on the local budgets now, let's vote that the following week the council district will be working in the regions, and we won't be fooled, and we'll do it ourselves. Come on, Yuri Ivanovich, let the factions vote! And we're not going to drag it on, we're going to be ridiculous!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u195	Andrew School, please then Asadchev and all, time is running out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u196	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to say a few words about who the Yulia Timoshenko Block is. Yulia Timoshenko's block with the people when we vote for the budget. So we don't have to ask questions about who? We were proposing an individual budget vote -- it wasn't supported, we were proposing an increase in social expenditure, we were proposing a review of the budget in connection with an increase in gas prices, we were finally proposing a review of the financing of regions that had not been reviewed. What questions I can't understand about us, because if we talk about who we're with, we'll never figure out who we're going to be with next. So I don't think there's even going to be any discussion about what the Timoshenko government has done in such a way that the budget of the past has been voted by three hundred and seventy votes. And that's how we have to work with today's government, then there will be no problems in the session hall, or in Ukraine, anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u197	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u198	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear friends! I'd like to answer a question about why we didn't vote on incomes, expenses. When the budget balance for the second reading is voted on, the first article should be voted on. These are incomes, expenses, deficits, lending, and all the text articles that provide this balance. Because if we don't vote on the text articles, then, if you'll excuse me, this balance is broken. Therefore, the text articles that provide balance should also be voted on. Then we are ready to vote that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u199	Dear National Deputies! The same was true of voting, since the first article deals with income and expenditure. And the plus was actually suggested on the first article. I think, dear colleagues, we've been exchanging thoughts. There is today, we need to be able to continue to work on the budget. So it's perfectly normal, we agreed, the proposal to vote on revenue, expenditure, budget deficits and local transfers, let them work on local budgets. It was logical to ask a question. So, if you don't want, your honors, I'm going to have to put the next draft of the ruling -- the deviation in general that is. Please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u200	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Well, we all understand each other very well. For example, the first article, plus the local budgets, is now being voted on. Local budgets will be approved. After that, the state budget is not approved and the local budgets have run out of resources to form a budget. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and every article in the budget, it affects either income or expenditure. Without voting with the balance of income and expenditure, this means that the budget balance is not maintained. And the only way out of this is to vote on the budget on the second reading and on the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-15-m1.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the final vote, and then we will be determined. Once again, I want to ask you a question so that we can agree on our will and position. Since no number of votes are needed to support the choice that has been made, it is necessary to accept it in second reading and in general as a law. So I can put the government to a vote and then you'll see what the result of the vote will be. Therefore, a normal position is proposed. Let's now vote on incomes, expenses, deficits, well, honourable colleagues, budget deficits that are agreed upon, and transfers of local budgets. We'll tie it up because they won't vote otherwise, you know, Valery Mikolaiovich. I'm voting on these proposals. Please vote. Vote, please. Okay, then there'll be another offer. [[19:02:14]] Z-87 Dear colleagues, 87. Since the Minister of Finance is trying to govern Parliament, I am voting on a second order. You'd better. The draft decree made by the Group of People's Deputies is 8,000-P5 on the specificities of the 2006 budget process for the State Budget of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 3 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, decides: Reject the draft Ukrainian Law “On Ukraine’s State Budget 2006” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers for re-reading. The other one. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a budget for the promotion of the Cabinet of Ministers no later than 21 December 2006 to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for the 1st half of 2006. Third. In the drafting of the Ukrainian National Budget Act for the 1st half of 2006, pursuant to article 46, article 1, of the Budget Code, provide for expenditure primarily to overcome the epidemic in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the election of Ukrainian national deputies and deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft decree as a decree, registration number 8,000-P5. Please vote. [[19:03:51]] For 202 Since we have not made any decisions, the budget is considered rejected because the Supreme Council has not made any decisions. So, dear fellows, work. I'd ask you to compromise, you don't want to look for him. All of it. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will continue the plenary session from 10 a.m. to Friday.
