ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:16]] It was registered in the 406 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform Ukraine’s national deputies Kirillov Viktor and Karatumanova Oleg of the National Party’s MP. In accordance with article 13 of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you of the entry of the People's Deputy Alexander Billowol into the National Party. Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on December 21, 2005. Six issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: two laws on the ratification of treaties have been passed, three bills have been adopted as a basis. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, one law has been adopted in a new edition. Dear National Deputies, the list of issues to be discussed, you have today, let's move on to their consideration. The election of judges of the Constitutional Court is under review. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, please, very briefly, and we will proceed to a practical review of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We may be able to form a Constitutional Court and vote for candidates from the Supreme Council. I want to remind you that we have a debt, a quota is four judges of the Constitutional Court. The committee recommends that we return to the vote and vote. Four candidatures are now presented, they are known to you by the Lithuanians Oleg Mihajlovich, Verniubov Ivan Vasilovich, Markusz Marija Andriyovni and Vosnik Ivan Panteliyovich. They all meet the requirements of article 16 of the Constitutional Court Act and article 148 of the Constitutional Court Act. So they're 40 years old, they have legal education, they have a job of not less than 10 years old, they live in the country for 20 years, they're Ukrainian citizens and they speak Ukrainian. Quite qualified representatives are candidates for the Constitutional Court, but it is clear that the final word for the people's deputies and we need to vote actively to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! Have a seat, Vasil Vasilovich, thank you. I'm going to read a declaration on the appointment of judges to the Constitutional Court with which the Venice Commission spoke, and I've asked you to bring it to your attention. I'm making that request. “The Venice Commission is concerned that the process of appointing new judges to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is blocked by the completion of the term of office of a number of its judges, including the head. Indeed, the number of judges is not. is no longer sufficient to continue the effective work of the court. In the States where it is founded, the Constitutional Court is an institution of great importance in ensuring the functioning of the various organs of the State within the framework of constitutional restrictions. They play a key role in guaranteeing respect for fundamental principles of democracy, human rights protection and the rule of law, which are also fundamental standards of the Council of Europe, of which Ukraine is a member. In response to changes in leadership in early 2005, Ukraine reaffirmed its commitment to these principles. The appointment of judges to the Constitutional Court often involves the involvement of various State bodies. The constitutional responsibility of these institutions is to ensure that the Constitutional Court continues its work through all necessary steps in this process in order to ensure the consistent functioning of this vital institution and to promote it. The Venice Commission calls on the Ukrainian authorities and, in particular, the Ukrainian Parliament to take immediate steps to restore the membership of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Lithuania, which holds the chairmanship of the Conference of European Constitutional Courts, which is a member of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, shares the concerns of the Venice Commission regarding the fact that the process of appointing new judges to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine seems blocked. Venice. December 16, 2005.” In this regard, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to take the ballots. If you don’t like the candidates offered, you can express your vote. After that, if there is no election of appointed and proposed candidates for the posts of judges of the Constitutional Court, we will look for new candidates. But we certainly need to express our position toward the proposed candidates, the important people we know. So I'd like to take the ballot papers and express my position. And I would ask that we give permission to then publish those national MPs and factions who refused to take ballots. With this in mind, I ask the head of the Counting Commission, Valery Dmitrovich Mishur, to announce the order of preparation and voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the members of the Counting Commission to gather to begin work, prepare ballot papers and everything else, where we always work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on the Workers’ Food System, registration number 6044, is being reviewed. Second reading. Alexander Bondarczuk, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour Let's go straight to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u6	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour prepared Bill No. 6044 for second reading: on the food system of workers. On first reading, the bill was supported by 301 votes in favour of us in the Supreme Council. A working group was established in preparation for the second reading of the bill. More than a hundred proposals have been submitted and considered, most of which have been taken into account. Invites the Committee on Social Policy and Labour to adopt the bill on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, no warning about the committee's proposals? What is the correction? Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The thing is, I can't tell you what the amendment is. These bills were handed out five minutes ago — they are already reported in the rostrum. I very much ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we, of course, support this bill by the Supreme Council, almost unanimously. I don't think there'll be any problems. And our Ukraine also supports it. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I beg you, we don't need to continue this practice when we're being handed out projects in a minute, they're taking a vote and today there's a lot of these issues. There are requests, those projects that are being distributed today, at least at the next plenary session. Well, you can't do that, it's a very low quality of laws, and that's why we're forced to make thousands of amendments to the amendments, thousands of amendments to the laws that have already been passed. A big request, that is, to abandon this practice, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u9	Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u10	We'll find your amendment, you tell me what it is. And we'll find it in the table, we'll look at it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, on Monday, we have identified a list and approved on the Conciliation Council, a list of drafts to be considered. Moreover, the committee considered 16 numbers of this document. Well, maybe technically, we'll figure it out. That's not all the laws apply, Boris Jakovitch. Now we're gonna figure it out and let you know. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, as the Act, the draft Act on the Food System of Workers, registration number 6044 is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:11:36]] For 269 The law is passed. A draft Act on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Vladimir Demjochin, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Agriculture, Property and Investment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investments prepared for second reading a draft Act on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property. I would like to point out that the bill deals with the definition of the legal, economic, institutional basis for the return of privatized property to public and utility property and regulates the relations associated with the procedure. In general, if we say it systematically enough, clearly, we have a terminological deviation. Because “reprivatization” is not really about reselling, so to speak, the return and sale of new property, but about nationalization. It would be more appropriate to formulate “nationalization”. During the preparation for second reading, 24 amendments were made to the Committee, of which 15 were fully taken into account, two amendments were partially taken into account and seven were rejected. Amendments of one, three, six, eight Polish MPs were rejected as being contrary to the concept of the bill. Amendment No. 7 of the Gorbal People's Deputies concerning the reimbursement to the owner of the value of the reprivatized facility is provided for by all existing legal acts. Amendment 13 of the Martinovski People's Deputy is in fact taken into account in article 4, paragraph 4, of the bill. Amendment 18 of the Gorbal People's Deputy with regard to the obligations of the previous owner of property to creditors and to the budget is mandatory for a new owner, like all other rights and obligations. It is regulated by existing legislation. It should be noted that the bill contains the comments of the General Legal Administration, which recommends that the draft law be rejected as such, which does not have an autonomous subject of regulation. At the meeting of the Committee, it was decided not to accept the opinion of the Principal Legal Authority, and the Committee proposed the adoption of the law on second reading and in general. Although in general it is possible to agree with the Legal Office. We need to think today about the systematization of all legislation relating to privatization, starting with the Demayne Foundation, which is once again dedicated by the President to nationalization, the privatization programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u13	Honorable national MPs, who among those national MPs who made their proposals are dissatisfied with their level of consideration for the bill. You don't? Then I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law on the return of privatized property to state and municipal property, registration number 3165. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:15:48]] For-103 The decision is not taken. What is the proposal of the committee? To the others again? I'm voting on a draft law, registration number 3165, re-reading. Please vote. [[10:16:19]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft law amending the Energy Conservation Act, registration number 4417, is being announced for consideration. [[on new energy saving trends]] Yuri Mikolaiovich Orobec. Is there a Yuri Mikolaiovich? Who will report from the committee? Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered this bill and proposes to adopt it as a law in the second reading. Any other warnings? None. I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Energy Conservation Act. [[on new energy saving trends]] Registration number is 4417. Please vote. I want to remind those who are yelling, "We don't vote!" that this is a government bill. [[10:17:36]] For-146 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: "Regions of Ukraine" - 29, Communists - 53, National Party - 22, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Block Timoshenko - 10, SPI - 18, National Block - 0, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 2, "Rebirth" - 2, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, "One Ukraine" - 0, "Reforms and Orders" - 3, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 6. I'm voting for a draft law, registration number 4417, for a second read. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:18:26]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine, registration number 3547, has been announced for consideration. [[on the right to information]] Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered the bill, has taken into account most of the amendments proposed for this project and proposes the adoption of the draft law in the second reading and in general. No warning? Is that what this is about? Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, it is about improving the Civil Code and, in particular, about specific articles on information. I think it's just a matter of such a democratic nature, creating the legal basis that we Ukrainian citizens had access to information, had the right to information. And so that the constitutional principles are implemented. We've considered this issue on the committee, taken into account the good suggestions from you. I think we just have to support this second reading, and this law of the future will serve Ukraine and Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u15	There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Civil Code, registration number 3547. [[on the right to information]] Please vote. [[10:20:36]] For 281 The law is passed. The draft Law on Access to Judgments is being announced for consideration. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy. And invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can work productively. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The bill had already been considered in the first reading and had gained some three hundred, even more than three hundred, votes in that room. In the second reading, we considered nine proposals by the national deputies, 31 were taken into account, 6 were taken into account, 2 were rejected. Access to judicial decisions will enable every citizen of Ukraine to familiarize himself with decisions of the courts of general jurisdiction that will be published on the official portal or the judicial authority website. This will enable us to create a single register of court decisions in Ukraine. This will be done by the Government Administration of Ukraine. Moreover, the adoption of this law will enable the laws of Ukraine to be applied in the same way. And in addition, it's about public control over the decisions of the judiciary. I think it's a very important law and it needs to be supported in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! Since virtually all the proposals you made are taken into account, we have every reason to vote on the second reading and, in general, as a law, the draft Law on Access to Judgments, registration number 8053. Please vote. [[10:22:44]] For 303 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Status of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 5279, is being announced for consideration. Who's going to report? Ivanzo Ivan Vasilovich from the committee. Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your second reading, there is a bill on the status of deputy to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The second reading of the bill included 65 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies. The vast majority of the proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies are taken into account. Two suggestions are not included. The proposal of the National Deputies number four Schools and Chubarov on page two concerning part two of the first article is to delete the following words: “On election day, he is permanently living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea”. In line with the findings of the General Legal Office, we have changed this article, and today it sounds like a member of the Ukrainian national who has the right to vote on election day has reached the age of 18, resides in Ukraine for at least five years and resides permanently in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on election day. That's the first one. And a second. With regard to amendment number 50 of the People's Deputy. He proposes article 26, which organizes the question of how to resolve the question of involving a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in criminal and administrative responsibility to reject. The committee considered this issue yesterday and suggests that the proposal of the People's Deputy Zizka in part be taken into account in the sense that the criminal case concerning the Deputy High Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea may be violated by the court, the Attorney-General, his deputies or the prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It continues to be described according to the standard that is now in force with regard to members of the local council. Therefore, the committee on this issue has not finally identified itself and is proposing to identify itself as a meeting place, that is, as members of the Supreme Council. All the comments of the Chief Legal Authority are included in this bill and amended according to their requirements. Thus, the bill is proposed to be adopted in the second reading and in general as a law, except for this only question that needs to be identified in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u19	Yes, Rephat Chubarov, please, your fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies, in fact, in this second part of the article there are two discriminatory moments at once. The first thing he has to do is live in Ukraine for at least five years. So we're subtracting a lot of the returnees that have returned in recent years. But it is not acceptable that a citizen of Ukraine who lives in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on election day. This is not the case with other local authorities. So I think that these points in this article should be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we need to put amendment number four to the vote. The Rephata of Chubarov justified it. This is page two. I'm putting this amendment to the vote and I'm asking you to decide. Fourth Amendment. [[10:27:18]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Correction of the 50th. Sergey Zizko, are you insisting on this amendment? Don't insist. Please. Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the sixth amendment, which states that a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is to be elected for a term of five years, is a request to be corrected for “four years”. Because all elections to the local authorities are a technical seal, but in Bill 3207/1, which changes the Constitution, it will be there for five years. But we were in a little bit of a hurry here, and the technical error was stolen, and we got the two bills mixed up. Therefore, I ask for correction, not for five years, but for four years the Supreme Council of the Republic of Crimea is elected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. A proposal for a committee is put to the vote: adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of the Law on the Status of the Deputy High Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 5279. Please vote. [[10:28:55]] For 233 The law is passed. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 54, Communists - 54, National Party - 38, "Our Ukraine" - 0, Block Timoshenko - 2, SPI - 14, National Block - 21, SDPU (o) - 18, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, "Rebirth" - 11, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, "One Ukraine" - 4 "Reforms and Orders" - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 3, "Afterfraction" - 14. Please, Rephat Chubarov with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I understand that we really want to help solve the problems associated with the election of the deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but I do want to note the attention of all my colleagues and the radio listeners who listen to us about what we have voted on, leaving the standards that conflict with the current Constitution of Ukraine. And the norm where we limit the possibility of being elected or choosing Ukrainian citizens who have recently returned to Ukraine is an anti-constitutional norm. It is not clear what it is that “is constantly living on election day”. What is an “electoral day”? I mean, I predict that the President of Ukraine will veto this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a review of the laws to which the President of Ukraine has applied the veto. The Ukrainian Act on the City of Sevastopol with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 29.11.2005, Registration number 3187-1. The rapporteur is Justice Minister Sergey Petrovich Golovatij. Prepare for the Vitalia Oluiko Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! It is known that after a review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 November with the proposals of the President of Ukraine regarding this law, it was adopted in a new edition. This bill was not signed or implemented by the President, resulting from the following. I'll stay on the main thing for a while. The second article of the Law provides for an election within the city of Sevastopol. At the same time, however, the city has its own administrative units, the city of Inckerman, as well as the population of four village councils and a village council. Thus, the provisions provided by law do not correspond to the provisions of the Constitution in articles 140, 146. and these regulations create conditions for the permanent opposition of councils, appropriate abuses, or the legal status of the Sevastopol City and the Inckerman City Councils, rural and village councils belong to local self - government bodies and represent the primary subjects of local self - government, so they have the same powers under law. Thus, in this matter, the law does not correspond to the Constitution. Moreover, the law does not determine how the Sevastopol City Council will combine its activities with the various tasks of its own bodies and the distribution of powers between the town of Sevastopol, the town of Inckerman, the rural and village councils that enter the city of Sevastopol. The second is based on the Sevastopol Special Status Act on the deployment of the naval forces of Ukraine and the base of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. The President believes that the question of the location of foreign bases should, in accordance with the Constitution, be determined only by an international treaty and cannot be subject to the amendment of the law. Similarly, the establishment of a special status law based on the formation of naval forces is seen as groundless because these issues are regulated by the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. There are, in fact, too much warnings to article 9 of the Law regarding the budgetary relations of Sevastopol and the state budget of Ukraine. In this section, the Law does not correspond to several articles of the Budget Code. Similarly, the procedure for exemption from the position of Sevastopol’s city head is not the same, for the Law refers to some conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on this matter. When the Constitutional Court of Ukraine provides an explanation and interpretation of the Constitution. On these grounds, therefore, the President of Ukraine believes that the law must be repealed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister's report is complete. Thank you, Sergey Petrovich, for you. Please, Vitaly Oluiko, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u28	Honourable National Deputies, the Ukrainian Act on the City of Sevastopol was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 23, 2005. Following the veto, the Supreme Council of the Third November 2005 reviewed this law with the President's proposals and adopted it in a new edition, taking into account part of the proposals made by the Head of State. On December 1st, a repeat proposal by the President of Ukraine to the Act on the City of Sevastopol, which the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting on December 21, 2005 and is today proposing to the National Deputies. After thoroughly examining the repeated proposals by the President of Ukraine, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the proposals. The main motive is that they offer a fundamentally different model of execution in Sevastopol of executive power and local self-government than in a project supported twice by Parliament. According to the Committee, the main issues raised by the President of Ukraine, the constitutional provisions of Ukraine and the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the same special status of the city of Kiev, are: this is a problem of defining the special administrative territorial status of Sevastopol. People's deputies, members of the committee disagreed with the President's proposals in this part, because according to article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of December 25, 2003, the city of Sevastopol has a special status in determining the administrative and territorial system that is governed by the laws of Ukraine. It is also a problem to define the characteristics of executive power and the election of officials in the city of Sevastopol. The problem of the budgeting of the city of Sevastopol is also a fundamental issue. The Committee believes that the possibility of determining the special order for the formation of the budget of the city of Sevastopol has been given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the articles already mentioned in the Constitution and by the decision of the Constitutional Court. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, firstly, the requirement for the adoption of this law is contained in article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine, secondly, it is necessary to determine that local self-government in Sevastopol must provide for the right of the community to choose the city's head. And the last. The consideration of this issue caused unprecedented public activity in the city of Sevastopol. Hundreds of petitions from citizens to support the bill continue to come to Parliament. With this in mind, the committee is asking to support his proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. This is the first time during consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u29	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u30	For the first time in the committee’s consideration of the bill, such a proposal was unanimously supported. It should be noted that a draft has been drawn up by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, who proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact this law in a new edition, taking into account the comments made and proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u31	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in for three minutes. Sign up, three minutes. Please sign up. And invite the national deputies to the session room. Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u32	Please give the floor to the deputy, Mr. Vernidub.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u33	Yes, Ivan Verni Dubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u34	Verni Dubov, Sevastopol, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear comrades, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has voted twice in favour of the adoption of the law and, unfortunately, the President of Ukraine has vetoed twice. This is the last time we have adopted this law by 281 votes. There is virtually nothing left to write to scientific and expert management, because the law has been clearly worked out. It is based on the Constitution of Ukraine. Next year, we will celebrate the decade of the adoption of the basic law of the State, the Constitution of Ukraine, and the law on the town of the hero, the status of Sevastopol, which the Constitution clearly refers to as the law that needs to be adopted, has not yet been adopted. I call on all members of the people today to overcome the veto of the President and adopt this law. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u35	Domansky, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u36	Please give the word to Sevastopol Cicchanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u37	Chicanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u38	MP, Chicanov, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Sevastopol Act has been under review in the Supreme Council for seven years, and the Supreme Council cannot solve it for that simple reason because it depends on it, but depends mainly on the various Presidents of Ukraine. It is only when the public of the town of Sevastopol, when the territorial community begins to exercise self-reliance, that certain official obstacles arise immediately that prevent this autonomy from being realized within the framework of laws that must exist in Ukraine. I call on all deputies to support the veto under this law, in the end, to adopt it and allow the community of the town of Sevastopol to exercise its rights within the Ukrainian legislative field.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u39	Ruzicki, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u40	Anton Ruzicki, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine”. Please give the floor to Deputy Tkalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u41	Tissue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u42	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine Dear colleagues, I think, the Minister of Justice has made a clear and clear statement about the inadmissibility of adopting the above-mentioned law, because there are serious issues that this bill does not regulate today. Moreover, in view of the political situation that has taken place today, we consider that such a law is inappropriate and that if it is adopted, we will require another veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u43	Yes. Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u44	Please give the floor to my colleague Zaiczko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u45	Yes, Bunny, please. Microphone, Bunny. Is there a bunny?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u46	Victor Zaichko, 225th District, Sevastopol, Litvina People's Block. Dear colleagues! Dear Sebastopols! Today is the third time we have considered the issue of the hero city of Sevastopol. And I address my colleagues, all those who want and see Sevastopols as citizens of Ukraine. I am considering today's vote whether sevastopols in the State of Ukraine are fully citizens? Let's answer that. And this will be understandable to all Sevastopols, Crimea and other regions. I want everyone to support and say no to the law that implies no adoption in our production today. I would like us to be guided by the Constitution and, above all, to do so again, by the citizens of Ukraine of Sevastopol, my countrymen, and to give them the right to self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u47	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, voting will take place in such a sequence. First. The first will be a vote by the President of Ukraine on the rejection of the law. The second is a proposal by the veto committee. And the third sentence, if the first two don't find support, is about a new editor. Therefore, I ask you to listen carefully to the vote. A vote is taken by the President of Ukraine on the rejection of the Ukrainian Act on the City of Sevastopol. Registration number 3187-1. Please identify yourself. [[10:44:11]] For-90 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on the City of the Hero of Sevastopol. Registration number 3187-1, please vote. [[10:44:45.]] For 276 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 58, Communists – 56, “Our Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 40, Block Timoshenko – 16, SPU-24, National Block – 19, SPDU(o) – 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, “Rebirth” – 11, National Movement of Ukraine, “Reforms and Order” – 0, “Ukraine” – 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, Postfraction – 19. I am voting on the third proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the City of Sevastopol in a new edition, taking partial account of President of Ukraine's proposals, registration number 3187-1. Please vote. [[10:45:45.]] For 279 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 56, Communists – 56, “Our Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 38, Block Timoshenko – 16, SPU-25, National Block – 21, SDPU(o) – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 4, “Rebirth” – 13, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 1, “Only Ukraine” – 10, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 2, Afterfraction – 18. The Ukrainian Act on Laws and Legislative Activities, proposed by the President of Ukraine since 15.08.2001, registration number 0894, has been announced for consideration. Justice Minister Sergey Petrovich Glavatius. Get ready for Basil Ononepenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that the veto applies to this law, as announced by the head of the Supreme Council on August 5, 2001, by President Kuchma. And we have to look at it right now, we're supporting the veto that President Leonid Kuchma imposed at the time in view of these things. First. The Law on Legal and Legislative Activities is written conceptually on an old Soviet methodological basis, which does not recognize the legal distinction or differences of nature, of legal nature. We are the Constitution as the fundamental act of society, the Constitution as the established treaty of society for the formation of power and the definition of its powers and the ordinary law. This goes through all over the law with a red thread and does not distinguish between the legal nature of the highest social act and the ordinary act adopted by a simple majority in Parliament, leads to the fact that this law distorts the whole substance of Parliament's legislative activity. On the basis of this non-definition between the Constitution and the laws amending the Constitution, which are one nature and simple laws that are adopted by a simple majority, at least 226 votes, has led us to fail to achieve the objectives set by the Ukrainian Constitution, particularly the purpose of dominating the rule of law in society. I don't have time to count all the laws that don't fit the Constitution. First, it follows that making changes to the Constitution under this law must be in line with international law with international treaties. This cannot be done because our Constitution forbids it. The Constitution is not in line with the order laid down by this law regarding the introduction of simple laws, customary laws, and their validity. This law, which is challenged by the President, distinguishes between official publication and official publication, when the Constitution requires official publication as a starting point for effective publication. As far as the others are concerned. In many positions there is either a narrowing of the authority of the existing organs or an extension. But most important of all, since 1 January, changes to the Constitution have become effective, things that are completely lacking in this law are emerging. This is also true of the notion of the Supreme Council Regulation, which is the order of adoption of laws. This also applies to the way the veto is applied; it is different from in this law in the changes to the Constitution. This is about the order of the President's signing of the laws, and in the changes to the Constitution, he's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u49	Allow the Minister of Justice to complete his opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u50	The changes to the Constitution extend the powers of the Supreme Council committees, but the law does not provide for this because it was adopted in 2001. It's not the same for committees to provide control functions to carry out the billing work. So there is no need to pass this law today, because changes to the Constitution change the order of laws, their adoption, their publication and their entry into force. Thank you for your attention. Hence, it is suggested that we reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, head of the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Before the vote. Who will speak from the committee, dear fellows? One minute. Please, wait! None. Well, please, as long as the head of the committee comes along, please sign in. Three minutes to ask. Out of the way. Let's get out of here. Sergei Petrovich, there's an answer. Please sign in. On the board. Jankowski, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u52	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u53	Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies! We've just heard from Mr. Head's reporter, and we really want to, personally, I'd like to say that the previous minister was a good, wonderful, Mr. Zvaric. But he respected both the Supreme Council and the National Deputies, so it was somehow easier for us to understand and help carry out these draft laws. But Mr. Head, I want to tell you, this person has begun to evaluate everyone, from the Supreme to the lower levels, the courts, and to accuse them of being corrupt courts; he has begun to evaluate all decisions of the Supreme Council that this is not the case, and he is only right. And that's why, I think, honourable national deputies, that this gentleman should really be appreciated in the Supreme Council, given to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not currently discussing the Minister's activities, but we are currently considering the law, registration number 0894. With this in mind, I would ask, if there are any questions, to ask them. Anatoly Domansky, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u57	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u58	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Catherine Samuel I just want to encourage my colleagues to support this bill. But from my point of view, the MP, Vladimir Mikhailovich, can speak at this moment all he thinks. I want to say that today's authorities reaffirm that it represents the interests of Kuchma, both in the presidential and the Kabinian structures, and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because, look, the veto was imposed by President Kuchma, the veto is also supported by President Yushchenko, which means the apple from the apple didn't go far. Nothing to expect from this power. And so I propose: we must, as the cross was placed on the previous authority, we must do everything in order to begin the healing of society. And overcoming the veto in that sense also gives us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u59	Anton Ruzicki, please “Our Ukraine” faction. It's us for the reasons, I understand, we're speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u60	Anton Ruzicki, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine”. Please give the floor to the Deputy Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u61	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u62	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, the subject of this Law is extremely important, because every day we see how it suffers, and actually our work, because the very procedure of legislative activity is not regulated. Hence, the quality of legislation suffers, although it is clear that there is no longer much need for laws but for quality. By the number of laws, the Ukrainian Parliament probably accepts them more than all Europeans combined. But the more qualitative the legislative act itself should be, which regulates the legislative activity. And so, of course, by upholding the idea that there should be a law that regulates the creation of other laws and regulations, the more we have to deal with the quality of this Law. So by supporting the whole concept, by the way, in which there's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u63	Yes, thank you. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko is head of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I think today is the most important bill that is very necessary for the Supreme Council for Ukraine as a whole. His fate is extremely complex. I will. Starting in 2000, he conducted a proper examination through the Supreme Council and promised the President. On July 11, 2003, the veto was not overtaken, but the Supreme Council did not support the President's proposal to reject the Law, which is confirmed by an appropriate withdrawal from the Supreme Council. I believe that the committee has done a huge job, and especially I am grateful to the former author, former deputy Alexi Yushtyk, who worked in the vocation which was the author of this bill and participated in the work with our committee. You know, during Ukraine's independence, we passed thousands of laws. If you count the other legal acts, it's hundreds of thousands. People have become confused in this mixture of legislative acts and regulations. Walter said: “If there are many doctors in the country, something is wrong in this country. If there are many laws in the country, something is wrong in the country.” Thus, it is the only comprehensive legislative act that would help the Supreme Council to adopt balanced, well-founded laws in accordance with the Constitution. Think of our history of enacting laws in this session. When we adopt one important law, the President promises. We take the law again, we take the veto, the president promises. In general, the President refused to sign a law that was directed by the Supreme Council. This is not a normal situation. The committee has therefore prepared the draft law and is submitting a session of the Supreme Council. There has to be a single approach. It's not like every housewife cooks a bursque of their own recipe, and each one thinks that it's a nice Ukrainian bursque. We must prepare our laws according to a single recipe. And today, this bill, it gives us the opportunity to prepare balanced laws in the future. That's why even such a proposal is made, in the absence of time, I'll say, part of the seventh article of the 30th draft is to be supplemented by sentences that, if the President of Ukraine has not signed the text of the law, this law is officially published in three days by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and published under his signature. I think that's the right approach, that's the principle position. And we need the President to follow the Constitution, the Supreme Council, the government, and then the Ukrainian people as a whole will.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on Laws and Legislative Activities is put to the vote. Regarding the rejection of the Law and Legislative Activities. Registration number 0894. What, what? That's not bad. I'd like to make a statement. About the rejection of the law. [[10:59:39]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Laws and Legislative Activities in a new edition, taking partial account of the President's proposals. Yes. [[11:00:11]] For 230 Decision taken. So the law was passed in a new order. Yes, Your Honor, yesterday George Korniyovich Kruczkov informed us that we need to make some clarifications in the law on amending certain laws on intelligence. We agreed that these clarifications would be announced today, and then we will take the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Georgi Korniyovich, please. Your attention, Your Honor, is vital.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, have you received a letter from this question? Yeah. I'll just remind you what I said that we passed a law amending some of the Ukrainian law on intelligence. For technical reasons, where the article is concerned, article 8, paragraph 7, of the Law on Operational Search Activities, for technical reasons, has come up with a very principled position which stipulates that intelligence authorities cannot inadvertently detect and identify traces of serious or particularly serious crime, documents and other objects that may be evidence, preparation or commission of such a crime, since this does not refer to the function of intelligence agencies. We ask that these words be reinstated there, because otherwise we will have the President's veto, we will delay the adoption of the law. I'm asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to take this into account, please vote, please. [[11:02:02:02]] For 268. Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning Assistant Consultants to the Local Council, registration number 3477, has been announced. [[second reading]] Reporter Vitaly Oluyko, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u68	Dear National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 30 November, reviewed the draft law amending the laws of Ukraine concerning assistant consultants to the local council. The bill is intended to provide for the rights of a local council member to have consulting assistants working on public policy. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comment on the bill. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning assistant consultants to the local council when considering the second reading to be adopted as a whole. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt the draft law in the second reading and generally as a law. No warning? I'm putting this motion to a vote. Registration number is 3477. Vote please! [[11:03:55]] For 324 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the provision of State assistance for the care of a child until it reaches the age of three, the registration number 6464, the report of the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Alexander Vasilovich Bondarchuk. Please. Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u70	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Dear President, the People's Deputies! The Supreme Council Committee on Social Policy and Labour prepared Bill 6464 for second reading. It is a bill to amend the provision of State assistance to care for a child before he reaches the age of three. In the course of the drafting of the bill, we have supplemented the provisions of Bill 6464 of Katherina Samojlik with the provisions of Bill 6464-2, submitted by Rudzkowski. In addition, 19 proposals were considered, of which almost all were taken into account. The second reading is thus proposed by a bill that not only allows the mother to receive care for the child when she goes to work, she will receive a person who is actually carrying out this assistance. This assistance will also be provided to each child before he or she reaches the age of three. The Committee requests that amendments be supported and voted in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! The proposal for a second reading adoption committee and, as a whole, the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine on the provision of State aid to care for a child before reaching the age of three. Registration number 6464. Please vote. [[11:06:11]] For 339 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Act on External Economic Activities of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the term of special sanctions]] The rapporteur is the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investments, Mr. Anatoliyovich Demjochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! A new version of the draft Law amending article 37 of the Law on Foreign Economic Activities is proposed for your attention. After the first reading, we carried out work and significantly improved the bill. In view of the fact that European law in the case of the granting of powers to administrative bodies to apply any restrictions, including sanctions, requires a clear procedure in the legislation, the new draft law is aimed at the introduction of a clear, understandable mechanism for the application of special sanctions, which would also ensure the right of actors in external economic activities. Rights of actors. In particular, the law specified the grounds on which sanctions could be applied, and the mechanisms for the lifting of sanctions were sufficiently comprehensive. The actions of a type of sanctions such as temporary suspension, the suspension of external economic activity is to be limited to three months. The extension of these sanctions is only effected by decision of the court. I would like to point out that sanctions are applied by the authorities of our State, so to speak, and the extension of more than three months is only proposed to give this prerogative to the court. Eight amendments were made in preparation for second reading. All amendments are taken into account. No comments were received from our Scientific and Expert Office of Legal Affairs. The Committee proposes that the bill be adopted, that article 37 of the Law on Foreign Economic Activities should be amended on second reading and in general. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! The proposal for a second reading committee as a whole, as a law, is put to the vote, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economic Activity, registration number 3300. [[concerning the term of special sanctions]] Please vote. [[11:09:27]] For 308. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 8223-1, is being announced for consideration. [[on the customs procedure for goods]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Vladimir Demjochin. While Demyohin is coming, please, Stephen Cloud, of the procedure for dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u74	Stepan Cloud, Ukrainian National Party of Kostenko I wanted, Your Honor, to pay attention to the previous law that we passed. It totally contradicts the essence of the development of the rule of law, do you understand? When within three months some officials may ban activity. It is only for the court to do so, for in three months it is possible to destroy the economic activity at all, and within three months it will not matter who approves or removes the sanctions, it will no longer matter. That's why it's wrong. And I think we're going to have to ask the President to veto this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u75	Thank you, Stepan Ilkovich. I fully support you. But here was the Supreme Council's will for 300 votes. Go back? We've already made our decision. We can't. Please, Vladimir Anatoliovich Demjochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u76	You know, I'm a little trailer for the previous law. By this logic, our entire government, the Cabinet of Ministers, all of our public authorities, can destroy any business we see this year. There's annihilation. Well, then the courts are even worse. Well, I'm going back to the first, the main question. Bill 8223-1. The Committee considered the bill, prepared for second reading, concerning the procedure for the processing of goods by customs. The main objective of this bill is to ensure that the requirements of the article 7 agreement are met. This will provide an opportunity to improve customs procedures, customs tax control issues, and the adoption of the bill are also aimed at ensuring the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation when entering the World Trade Organization. We've received 24 proposals from the people's deputies, all taken into account. I would like to point out that all the proposals of the General Legal Office are taken into account, except for two. I also take note separately of amendment No.22 of the Vasadze People's Deputy, which has been taken into account editorially. Given that most of the proposals have been taken into account and taken into account editorially, the Committee proposes that the bill be adopted on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u77	Dear people's deputies, no one insists on their amendments? For clarification? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the customs procedure for goods]] [[second reading]] Registration number 8223-1, please vote. [[11:14:10]] For 268. The law is passed. Announcing the project. Well, they're not given away. The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna. Please, we were about to consider the amendments to the 2005 State Budget -- there are no documents. Please, the committee thinks so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, according to our agenda, there are two bills: number 8334 and number 8334-2. Yet, according to article 6.2. 14 The Supreme Council Rules, the second reading of the bill, are submitted within 14 days of the adoption of the bill in the first reading. These bills were adopted by the Supreme Council on December 15, the first reading. That is, the relevant time frame for consideration in the second reading of the bills has not yet arrived, since the committee has been asked to amend and amend the law. Therefore, the committee did not prepare the table, since the proposals made by the national deputies still go to the committee. In fact, we have no right to narrow down the legislative initiative of the MP Corps. So we can look at it and put it before the committee only after the deadline has passed, and we will process all the necessary documents. We will prepare the table for the second reading, introduce all the amendments to the deputies and present it to the Supreme Council Hall. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that we do the following if possible. We have the Law on Amendments to the Law on the 2005 State Budget, which we have determined that one percent of the funds that have been received from the privatization of the associated “Croat Mining and Metallurgical Combined” are directed towards the city of Krivi Rig. And we need to clarify this bill about making changes to article 1, because we have determined how much money is directed directly to city budgets, but, local budgets, but have not determined the change to article 1, where income and expenditure rates should be brought into line with article 102.3. It's actually a technical readjustment. And I ask, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that we support this document, these clarifications, it's registered at number 8642. Today we have considered this issue again at the Committee, and we ask that this document be put to the vote, so that we can clarify it from the right figures. No other changes in this bill are actually foreseen. Only clarifying the figures contained in the first article and in article 102, which is marked 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, let's address these issues this way. Now we're voting for clarification because we've really adopted the 240 million law, if I'm not mistaken, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u81	But then, in the first article, we don't see any changes in income and expenditure, and then we'll talk about two of these bills. No warning? I ask you to calm down, Your Honor, we have adopted the Law that 1% of the value of selling "Cruvistali" is being sent to the Curve Rig to solve urgent problems. We made a decision, but we had to make a change to the article of the first budget, which provides for a refinement in the income and expenditure portion of the budget. That's why we need to vote on this, and then we're going to have a discussion about two bills that had the commission of the committee to prepare for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on a proposal to clarify the Law on the Allocation of Money to the Horn of Curve 240 million. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:19:03]] For 227 Decision taken. So please, now, now, let's talk about other laws that we were going to consider today. Please sign up, five minutes. Here comes the recording, sign up, five minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u82	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u83	George Ponomarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u84	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, in these two bills, it is a matter of saving money from the privatisation of the “Cruvoristals” in one bill, all to pay for savings, the other to save money and the budget of the Pension Fund. I think there's a minister of finance or a deputy minister who should say, guys, don't roll your lip, 24.2 billion from "Crucials" is gone. She went to settle 9.6 billion deficits in 2005, 9.2 billion to settle the 2006 deficit and to return 4.2 billion to Pinchuku. They're going to sell all the other common good, and it's going to go like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u85	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u87	Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the government has already resolved this issue by making proposals and getting our support for the 2006 budget. But we confirm our political support for the allocation of funds to the city of Curve Horn for social tasks. Because we believe that this is a very important action. To make the inhabitants of Krivi Rig feel satisfied that the state really cares about their needs, although I am convinced that this can be done in 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u89	Yes, Sergey Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u90	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Sergey Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, indeed. Under Regulation 14 days is given to make proposals for second reading. However, I would like to draw attention to the responsibilities of the committee’s head, Ludmila Pawnee Suprun, that there was an appointment of the Supreme Council, which has spoken, in the transcript, to prepare this bill for consideration at this plenary week. For my part, in view of the fact that certain comments were made regarding the reimbursement of funds to previous owners of the “Criminal”, I, as the author of the legislative initiative, have made some changes to my bill, taking this into account. Hence, there is no reason not to vote in favour of this bill in the second reading. The task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be carried out. I think that the honourable colleagues, and now for the radio audience, are talking about the return of savings to citizens at the expense of the funds received from the reprivatisation of the “Criminals”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u91	Yes, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u92	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues and, to a greater extent, TV and radio listeners, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, this is how we do it. How to keep an eye on those who want more than enough, how to make a constructive decision, is a rather complex subject. That is why I turn to poachers and all who are interested and concerned. We have now decided that 240 million grivens we give to the Horn of Crimea, 168 and the surrounding territories 72 million grivens. And that's a normal decision. The author was absolutely right, the representative of the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania, Gurov Vadim Nikolaevich, who insisted that it should go to the territory where the enterprise was and which should live on the basis of that enterprise. And in view of what we consider to be further, we, the faction, believe that all the money from privatization must be channelled to the benefit of the population. The only thing is likely to be considered by the budgetary committee in order to comply with the procedure and to consider the matter at 16 hours, for example. And that's going to be normal, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u93	Colonies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u95	Nestor Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u96	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, let us not live by two standards. It was the responsibility of the Speaker of Parliament to consider the bill at the same time as Bill 8589, which was successfully reviewed and voted yesterday. Why is it that the bill, which provides for the repayment of 20 billion grivens of our citizens' contributions to Sberbank, is unfortunately not of interest to any part of Parliament today, but to the Government of the past. Yeah, because no one wants to give that money to people because they don't have that money anymore. 10 billion have been earmarked for the repayment of debts, which the authorities, this orange power, have committed this year and 10 billion for the repayment of debts next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u97	Assadchev, please. What? What?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! In order for us to adopt these laws, we need to repeal the Budget Act, which we have adopted, and the costs of the Crimsons, I want to remind you, this year almost 7 billion have gone to pension payments and next year almost 9 billion have gone to pension payments. So let's take the money from the pensioners and make the decisions that the authors are offering us, all the more so that the authors don't give the macro-indicators what will be inflation, which is not inflation, it's hyperinflation, but somehow the bill's authors are shutting it down. I don't think we should retirees take their pensions, we've voted budgets, and that's why we're going to be -- we're going to be spending, we're going to be distributing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I made a technical mistake here, the Colony passed on the rights to the Shufresche, and the Shufresch had another minute, because it was written after the Colony. So you have one more minute, please. Shufrich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u100	That is, the power has been very clearly directed by the money, the money of the people. Instead of returning contributions to Sberbank, they were aimed at paying off their own free debts. Today they say there will be inflation. I want to turn to those who say that it was they who warned about the inflation of the adopted budget for the following year and voted for the same budget. Besides, it's about the Horn of Curve. 240 million bracelets given to the Horn of the Curve, of course, that's good. But so much is given to Lviv next year, and nothing is sold in Lviv. Isn't the one billion bracelets we've offered to give to the Horn of the Curve worthy of curvature for living, actually breathing with ore and metal? Vladimir Mihajlovich, we insist that our law be reviewed, voted, and that it be discussed in the budget committee. And today, Ludmila Suprun covers the theft of the Ministry of Finance! The money was stolen from the people. And someone has to answer for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. Now I ask everyone to calm down. And let's do it this way. Supr Ludmila Pavlovna, we will assign the committee today during the break, Ludmila Pavlovna, to hold the meetings so that we can have it, and let the Supreme Council decide to remove the tension so that we can continue to work peacefully. But there will be a Supreme Council with a sense of responsibility for the consequences of any decision it makes. Let's put off the 16th hour discussion on these two issues. No warning? Because there's no subject to talk right now. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax for Persons is being announced for consideration, registration number 5038. [[about an inheritance]] Vitaly Hometicnik, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u102	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It is suggested that the committee’s second reading of a bill on taxation of the income of natural persons derived from the adoption of an inheritance and from transactions in the sale of immovable and movable property be considered. I would like to remind you that on the first reading of the National Deputies, all three bills were adopted: 5038, 5038-1 and 5038-2. And according to a separate protocol, the Supreme Council has prepared a single bill that uses the positive work of all three bills. Thus, it is proposed not to tax a person’s income on the sale of not more than once during the reporting year of a housing, apartment, or part of an apartment, room, garden, or land area if the total area of the objects indicated does not exceed 100 square feet [100 sq m]. If the area of the immovable property exceeds 100 square feet [100 sq m], it is proposed to tax at a rate of 1 percent of the value of such an object. I will remind you that, according to the legislation in force, 13 percent of taxes are planned from January 1st of the following year. Income is also offered from the sale of cars, motorcycles, and motorbikes at a rate of 1 percent if real estate is sold once a year. In the following year, it will also be 13 percent if this bill is not adopted. As for an inheritance, it is suggested that a zero tax rate should be applied to the value of any object of such an inheritance, which is a further reduction in tax pressure, when it comes to inheritance. The bill also takes into account the proposals made by National Deputy Feldman for the inheritance of a person who is a member of the first group or who has the status of an orphan child or a child who is deprived of parental care. Also included are the suggestions made by a national deputy named Lapin, who is not subject to taxation in the form of money or property donated by one member of a marriage mate to another. So we took into account the authors' proposals, the main proposals made by the authors of the other Lupina and Feldman bills. There were 18 suggestions for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u103	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u104	Out of 18 proposals, 17 are included. Therefore, the committee, taking into account the importance and relevance of the matter covered by the bill, suggests that it be accepted in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax, Registration No. 5038, is submitted to the vote for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. [[about an inheritance]] Please vote. [[11:32:46]] For 313 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax, registration number 7494, is being announced for consideration. [[on the settlement of the issue of the taxation of investments by value added tax]] The rapporteur, Kiroyanz Sergey Georgievicz, is the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u106	Dear Head, dear colleagues! It is proposed to consider, in a second reading, the draft Act amending the Law on Value Added Tax. [[on the settlement of the issue of the taxation of investments by value added tax]] This bill provides for the reinstatement of the rule that has been removed from the Ukrainian Act on Added Cost Tax, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 25 March 2005 by the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005 and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine. Such a rule stipulated that the transfer of core funds as a contribution to the statutory fund of a legal person to form its entire property complex in exchange for its corporate rights, including the import of basic funds into the customs territory of Ukraine other than excise goods or their export outside the customs territory of Ukraine, was not subject to tax on added value, that is, the changes to the budget stopped the operation. It's her action. The termination of the legislative rule in the middle of the year, when the relevant investment agreements were already in place, certain business rules of the game contributed to the consolidation of a number of investment projects, the review of them with a certain negative. with certain negative consequences. For Ukrainian businesses, there were usually references to judicial institutions. The adoption of the proposed bill will help to improve the investment environment in Ukraine and create a comprehensive investment infrastructure, increase investment efficiency and have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of society. I would like to point out that to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee was asked to submit an appropriate bill as soon as possible to return the status quo. The committee received three suggestions from the Ukrainian national deputies. From Slabenko two suggestions. The first is to paragraph 3.2. 8, this proposal by the committee was rejected as changing the concept of a bill adopted in the first reading, and the second, regarding the taking of the law, it was also rejected. The proposal of the Ukrainian national deputy Soloshenko is included. After considering a bill at its meeting, the committee proposes that the Supreme Council support it as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u107	Sergey Slabenko insists on his amendment? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u108	Sergi Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Well, first of all, there's no big bill here, and the whole point of my amendment was to make sure we were able to guarantee that we were importing high-tech equipment, and I suggested that this equipment should not be older than 3 years. And secondly, to make it, if it's high-tech, it has to be valued in an appropriate amount in the equivalent of the euro. In doing so, I understand that the committee can, when considering my proposals, correct the amount that we will appreciate the foreign investment that Ukraine really needs. I was thinking that, to date, I would suggest that this bill should only be considered in a second reading with an understanding of the transfer of individual amendments to third reading or definition of an article that you would like to change. So I'm going to propose to support my proposal right now, and keep the committee working.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u109	I'm putting to the vote amendment number one Sergey Slubenka. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:20]] Z-62 The amendment is not counted. You insist. Sergei Slabenko, third amendment, please. Sergei Slabenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been thinking since the entry into force of this law. This law takes effect -- my proposal went back to January 1st, 2007. I got out of the next one. The budget process ended in Ukraine, we accepted the budget. According to the calculation of the budget, we took into account the amount of tax added to the value to be paid to Ukraine, to be collected in Ukraine. And in turn, it should go to the part where we pay pensions to Ukrainian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, without the proper accounting of the Ministry of Finance, we are now placing the State Budget in such a situation when, once again, pensions are called into question to citizens when savings and other social benefits and guarantees that we have foreseen in the 2006 budget are called into question. So I ask you to support my proposal regarding the time of entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u111	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u112	A few words about the amount that was budgeted by the law adopted in the 2005 budget. That was the sum of 10 million. It had no impact on pension payments, but we had the characteristics of all countries that were involved in investing in our country as a country, the characteristics of a country that was changing the rules of the game and changing the business conditions for production and for working in our Power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u113	Assadchev and now let's determine the vote on the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a distinguished reporter, dear friends, really, it's bad: changing the conditions of the game itself during the game, that's what I confirm. Indeed, it is necessary for high-tech equipment to be imported into Ukraine without VAT, but that is not the problem. And the problem is that because of this preference, any equipment, any goods, and then they're sold in Ukraine, with tax avoidance. And when this hole was closed, today we collected twice as much VAT as we did last year. Since this issue is not really addressed in the bill, how can we avoid paying taxes? So I think this is going to have a serious impact on the income part of the budget, and we can't vote without a comprehensive solution to this problem right now, because we're actually going to fail the budget. And I would very much ask, at least the calculations give Minfin or send him to the third reading, or we're just tearing down the income part of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u115	I put to the vote Amendment No.3 Sergey Slabenko, which is that this law takes effect as of 1 January 2007. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:45.]] For-96 The decision is not taken. A second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. [[on the settlement of the issue of investment taxation and value added tax]] Registration number 7494. Please vote. [[11:41:21]] For 290 The law is passed. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now consider a draft Act amending Ukraine's customs tariff for regulating the market in petroleum products. Registration number 7645. The committee has sent a letter asking for a postponement of the consideration of the matter in connection with the need for its work. We take this proposal into account. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being tabled. [[on the promotion of the production of petrol by motor mixers]] Registration number 7710. Another reading. Anatoly Ivanovich of the Committee on Finance and Banking takes the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u116	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. You are aware of the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian laws to encourage the production of motor-mixed petrol. I would like to remind you that this bill was adopted on the first reading of October 18, this year and voted twice in the second reading room. The situation today in the energy market is forcing us, the Ukrainian national deputies, to quickly adopt laws to reduce the energy dependency of our country. Finally, we need to take advantage of the positive experience of countries in the world, which gives a lot of attention to the search for alternative fuels, including bioethanol. The gradual increase in bioethanol and biodiesel produced from biorenewable agricultural raw materials will soon significantly reduce the use of imported crude oil in the production of petroleum products that will contribute to the energy security of our nation. The proposed bill deals with the production of mixed gasoline using bioethanol-based additives is the first real step in this direction. The draft of the bill was prepared for rereading, and a broad discussion was held by specialists from various ministries, departments, and companies in the oil industry. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 20 December 2005 considered proposals that came up with a second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws on Incentive of Motor Gas. Of the 8 notes are 7, one is included in part. In doing so, I would like to report that the point of continuing the lease of state-owned liquor companies under the insistence of many deputies has been removed from the law. The general conclusion is this. First. Biofuels, biofuels, are the future for all countries, especially countries that do not have enough oil. The other one. Natural companies operating in Ukraine are not in a great hurry to introduce new technologies in this area, although they do not deny their prospects. Therefore, the National MPs of Ukraine consider it appropriate to take the first steps to stimulate the production of biofuels in our country by setting the excise duty rate of 30 euros per tonne. At the same time, with the aim of avoiding budget losses, it is proposed to regulate January 1, 2007. On the basis of the above, we offer to adopt the law in the second reading and in general. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u117	Honorable National MPs. What? All adjustments are included. So I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7710. [[on the promotion of the production of petrol by motor mixers]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:45:49]] For 240 The law is passed. Announcing the draft Law on Mortgage Bonds, registration number 8141. Reporter of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Mr. Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Let's cut to the chase.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u118	Your esteemed head, your esteemed colleagues, is being brought to your attention in the second reading procedure by the draft Law on Mortgage Bonds. On November 30, we adopted this bill in the first reading, I think, 250 votes. Short. Despite the fact that mortgage bonds are one of the main instruments of the stock market in developed countries, they have not yet found practical application in Ukraine. The main reason is the lack of a proper legislative framework. The situation, in turn, inhibits the development of the mortgage lending market, including its socially significant segment as housing, mortgage lending. Once again, I would like to point out that this law has nothing to do with the mortgage and, especially, with the lands of agricultural destination. The committee’s second reading procedure included 26 suggestions and comments, one amendment of National Deputy Sharov’s amendment on the grounds for the liquidation of a specialised mortgage institution. The amendment is rejected because the liquidation of the company is prescribed in the Ukrainian Civil Code. The findings and observations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate and the presentations on its adoption procedure were analysed in the first reading of the Ukrainian National Deputies and most of them are taken into account, especially with regard to the licensing of the Governor, the rules laid down in articles 15, 21 and the amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Regulation of the Securities Market concerning the licensing of the Manager of Mortgage Coverage. More qualitatively defined mortgage requirements, including comments by National Deputy Igor Sharov on the liability of executing liabilities under Article 3 and Article 16, accounted for the position that mortgage creditors and, accordingly, ordinary bonds may be in the form of financial institutions that, according to legislation, have the right to lend loans and loans, respectively: banks, credit unions. insurance companies. Most amendments are technical. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a second-reading bill and generally as a law of Ukraine, taking into account the technical and editorial observations of the Legal Authority. Dear colleagues, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u119	Honorable National Deputies, since all the amendments made by the National Deputies are taken into account. The committee proposes to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of the Law on Mortgage Bonds. Registration number is 8141. I'll put this motion to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:48:48]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote. Who would like to return to the consideration of draft Law 8141, please be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I'd like to support you, because this is a very important bill. [[11:49:13]] For 272
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u121	We went back to reviewing the draft law. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill for the draft Law on Mortgage Bonds. Registration number 8141. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:49:40]] For 281 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is being announced for consideration. [[on the status of legal persons]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Leapin Kseniya Mikhailnovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! The bill deals with such a painful situation today as the legalization of professional associations and the registration of social associations, political parties, the legalization of religious communities, and the registration of charitable funds as legal persons. In the course of drafting the bill, a number of proposals were made, first of all, by representatives of the trade movement. We held consultations. Today, a compromise position has been found. And they actually proposed a form of legalization through the administration of justice, with a single state register being incorporated into the system by obtaining a state sample. I mean, all the opportunities to work as a legal person. In addition, we have made many technological additions to facilitate the process of state registration, such as today’s problem for religious communities. Because a citizen who has not received an identification number on religious grounds can't actually register today as a natural person entrepreneur because the required attribute is an identification number. In this bill we allow you to enter passports instead of identification numbers. So we're unlocking this problem that's created. And I also want to say that in the course of our work, it was so violent that unfortunately, I particularly want to mark for the transcript and ask the national MPs to support this bill in the second reading and in general with the comments that I'm about to make. Regrettably, there was an editorial error, there was paragraph two, third draft law in the following edition, and the words “banks” were stolen among the acquisitions of legal personality, not after the state registration, which is totally natural for professional associations. I ask you not to take those words into account. So the banks remain, their acquisition, the status of the legal person after the state registration. And in paragraph 4 of this article, I ask that the words “State authorities and local self-government authorities” be discarded, because the Ministry of Justice cannot register public authorities, i.e. itself. That is, the registration of state authorities will take place through government registries. Please support me with these editorial rights that I have read.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a law, the draft Law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons, Entrepreneurs, registration number 4389-1 is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:53:30.]] For 319 Decision taken. The law is passed. The draft Law on State Land cadastre is announced for consideration. Please, Ivan Tomic. Let's make it quick.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u124	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, has been introduced in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council since October 6, 2005 by a revised draft law on the State Land cadastre for re-reading. Honorary colleagues, in view of the legal authorities ’ observations, as well as the inadmissibility decrees, are now discussing the possibility of adopting a vital State land cadastre for Ukraine in the Supreme Council. That's the first one. Article 15, articles 18, 20, which define the powers of the Land of Rural and Rural Councils, Kiev and Sevastopol. In line with chapter 4, it is necessary to complete the article separately to determine the order in which the Earth’s State cadastre is introduced. Taking these changes into account, readjust articles 12, 37, 61, 21, 24, 28, 29, 34, 35, 41. The committee proposes to refer these articles to the third reading, and the State Land cadastre Act should be adopted in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u125	But we do have a draft Law on Inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u126	Well, I'd like them to call back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u127	Anatoly of Mokrousov, please. Ivan Fedorovich, please sit down. Anatoly Mokrousov, microphone or stand by, ground the draft Decision on the Inadmissibility of the Draft Law on the State Land Cadastre. Justification. Dear colleagues, we have to vote now, then we'll go get the ballots.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u128	Honourable deputies, proposed by the State Committee, have twice been rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine because of their inadequacy with the laws and regulations of local government. At the same time, agreed with local authorities, the bill was twice approved by us in the first reading by 402 deputies for the first time and 253 for the second time, in the absence of votes against. Following the last rejection on October 6, this year, the Supreme Council proposed a working group by the State Commission of Ukraine in the drafting of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee bill. The working group, with the participation of representatives of local self - government, drafted a harmonized draft law that took into account the rights of local councils regarding the introduction of a State land cadastre at the local level. This position was supported by participants in the “round table” recently held by the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, with the participation of the National Deputies. Nevertheless, the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has submitted to our consideration a bill that is substantially different from the one agreed and voted by the deputies in the first reading, duplicates most of the clauses that have been repeatedly recognized by the Unpleasant Supreme Council of Ukraine, disregards the comments that I and other national deputies have made and violates the rights of local self-government bodies as defined by the Constitution and other laws. Another attempt is being made to usurp the authority of the local councils in the area of the conduct of the State Land Cadastre at the local level in the hands of one State body, the State Commission of Ukraine. I think it is necessary to draw your attention to the attempt to introduce a violation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Rules, a bill that has been substantially revised without taking into account the comments made. Since my proposals and the suggestions of other deputies in the development of local self-government were completely ignored. In this regard, I feel it is necessary to make a decision about the dissatisfaction of the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u129	Dear national MPs, the first to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, I think you've got a certain amount of incontinence going. I'm going to say that the first one is to vote on the proposal for inadmissibility. Let's do it in a row. Well, they argued, now it'll be next. My dear fellows, you don't work here on your first day! The proposal in the form of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote by the authors: the People's Deputies of Mokrousov and Klimpus, on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre. It's about inadmissibility. [[11:59:17]] For-27 The vote now showed that 27 people voted in favour of the draft decree. We still have some kind of unacceptable motions for a ruling. The author is Boris Bespalij. This is draft regulation number 5394/p5. Please, Boris Jakovitch. [[What? Well, he has to make a statement, make his argument!]] Then Viacheslav Koval.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. I want to say that our position in this case was exactly in line with the profile committee that John Fedorovich Tomic gave. The point is that the issue of real estate registration has nothing to do with the question of the State Land cadastre, and they're being removed from this bill. That's what we insisted on. Because there is, indeed, a question of who should register the real estate: whether the Ministry of Justice should do so, according to its territorial departments; whether it should do so by the State and its territorial departments; whether it should do so by the authorities of the local government, which, for example, I and Viacheslav Koval insist. But since these positions are removed from the law, and this is the result of our work together, and I want to welcome everyone, local self-government, the reasons for the inadmissibility that we have formulated are so regulated. In addition, the profile committee went to meet everyone because they're proposing a third reading delay a whole series of articles, which are two or three positions of principle, and the rest of the articles may need editorial changes. So a large number of third-reading articles don't mean a large number of differences, they just define good legal techniques, and in this part, I think the law can just be supported, because this is exactly where it was removed. And what we've offered, the motivations of inadmissibility, they're accounted for. Now I wanted to add two things, just like I'm going to have to settle, this is for the stenographer, when I'm working on it. This is the first, where all authorities are authorized to conduct the earth cadastre, though the government administrations, though the local authorities, though the district councils, though all others. There is such a formula that they have to solve other issues, according to legislation. It's the wrong formula, it's only supposed to be the answer to the questions that are within the jurisdiction of the Law and nothing else. This is a requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 19 part two. And the other, well, that's why we're going to have to rework these moments. But this is exactly what you can do in preparing for the third reading. Therefore, by generalising what is said and supporting its own, it means that the colleagues who have worked together in this direction and the position of “our Ukraine” and the position of Viacheslav Koval the National Movement of Ukraine, which is the co-author of our proposal, are to adopt the bill now in the second reading, referring to the third reading of the articles that need further work. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u131	Are you filming the vote on inadmissibility? Yes, thank you. Viacheslav Koval, please. But I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues, the National Deputies, of the Committee's decision of 29.11.2005: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we accept it in second reading and in general as the Law. So I would ask John Fedorovich to report the committee's decision, not his own. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u132	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, National Deputy Koval, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the third year in Parliament is the drag on of the country’s land cadastre in Ukraine. Today, we are on the verge of reading this bill. The essence of the dispute: The Statecomem insists that the cadastre introduce it, both at the local level -- the village, the village, the city, and the regional area -- the ARC and the state. Current legislation has determined that the land cadastre at the village, village, city level is run by executive bodies of rural, rural, and urban councils. They register land, issue property documents, and use land. According to the Ukrainian Constitution, local self - government authorities exercise the rights of the owner of the land on behalf of the Ukrainian people. The question is, how are the councils going to carry out these constitutional powers if the cadastre on the local level is passed on to the State Commission? The councils will not have the necessary information about the earth. An absurd, unconstitutional proposition. At the same time, by offering to monopolize cadastral in the organs of the State Commission, no one thinks about our population, the people of Ukraine. The State Commission wants to create 662 cadastral centres in areas of regional importance. And we have only 4.9 million citizens making land rations contracts. What are we going to send them out of all the shells to the district registration centers? A variety of land supplies for the citizens of rural, rural, and urban areas will not be available. Couldn't we have come up with something worse for our citizens before the election? The person who was at the registration office knows that people take turns at night to obtain documents, and they go to the clerks for a few days for their money paid. It was a long time ago. More money is already being paid for the registration of the State Act than for the making of the act itself. Government documents do not issue to the boards, and they have books on the registration of leases. Who, and when, will stop this vacchanal in the state? We have to reject this bill. Provide the councils with the right to have their own information about the land. The cadastrary at the local level should be carried out by local councils. So I suggest we transfer it to another reading. And, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, there was no agreement. Because I'm just the person who took part in the round table, we've been discussing this issue, trying to explain to the State Commission this negativity of this step. But the cart is there now. The bill is put to the vote in that old version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u133	We're putting it to a vote about inadmissibility, aren't we? Kowal. Viacheslav Koval, do we vote against the draft decree? I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre, author of the Koval People's Deputy. Well, he insists. Perhaps other arguments affected. [[12:06:36]] For-50 The decision is not taken. We'll now consider the matter, then the procedure. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the national parliament, is a committee proposal, and I will read it out, which he accepted, on 29.11.2005. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept in the second reading and generally as a law. I'm voting on this proposal. That is, the adoption in second reading and generally as a bill of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre, registration number 5394. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:07:32]] For 180. For - 190. The decision is not taken. Let's do it this way. Let's do the second reading again. We need to figure this out. Well, please, Ivan Fedorovich, please. May I have your attention, please? Tomich, please, microphone, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u134	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, Ukraine needs a national land cadastre, and I ask, 90% of the articles agreed, to be accepted in a second reading. The ones I made the offer, move to the third. And in the third, we're going to accept and have a land cadastre.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, since there are firm objections here, let's do it this way, because we can't make a decision out of a voice. There is no committee decision. So let's do this now, let's vote, let's go to second, second rereading and let him work out the finals, make his proposals to the committee. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. Let's make a decision not to burn down the law. Please vote. [[12:08:52]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Head of the Counting Commission, Valérie Mishur, Permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u136	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I ask the members of the Counting Commission to take their seats, the vote will start at 12 o'clock 10 minutes, it will continue for 30 minutes, there are 4 names in the bulletin, and there is one square where you can express your opinion that you don't support anyone. We invite you to the vote. The vote starts at 12: 10 a.m. and 30 minutes continues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, we are adjourned to 12.40 minutes, please be actively involved in this vote, which is a positive one. Yeah, break till 12 o'clock, 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u138	Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Announcing the question of the election of judges. The rapporteur is the head of the committee Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u139	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy considered the appointment of the Chief of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court, and the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court on the election of judges. For consideration by the committee, these judges passed the Higher Qualifications Commission. There were no claims at the committee meeting. Those judges who didn't go through the committee, we brought them back to work. And today you have a number of draft rulings, such as Decree 8637 on the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis: to the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Trazko Valentine Andriyevna; to the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Velidchuk Vasil Mironović; to the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd, Potopenka Viktor Ivanovich and Surovicka Ludmila Vasilovna; to the Court of Appeal of the Sumskie District of Krivorenk Viktor Ivanovich; to the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Mamin Oksana Viktorovna and Horoshevsky Alexander Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Litvinenko Inna Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal in the Cherkas region of Viktor Mikolaiovich Road; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region of Rudomotov Svetlana Georgievna, Salaam Hennady Anatoliyovich, Shahov Olga Grigorovna, Vitali Vasilovich School; To the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Zuravla Alexandra Alexandrovitch; the Court of Appeal of Sevastopol Andrejchenko Allon Anatoliyevna; the local Bahchisarai District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimeakov Yuri Mikolayayovich; the local Lenin district court of Vinnice Tokar Lidija Volodymyrna; the local Novomoskov Regional Court of the Dnipropetrovsk Region of the City of Dmitr Ilić; the local Yellow District Court of Mariupol Donetsk district of Kiryakov Natala Pavlovna; the local district court of the Kyiv district of Denisenko Natalija Alexandrovna; the local Sverdlov City Court of Luhansk, Babenko Svetlana Shotovna; the local Strysk District Court of the Lviv Region of Sasa Stepanović; The railway district court of Lvova Melnichuk Olen Jaroslavna; The local Tatarbunar District Court of Odessa, Sivokon Tamara Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u140	Please invite the national deputies, the secretariat, to the session room, to make an announcement. Dear National Deputies! Submitted for the vote, please prepare for the vote, draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 8637 on the election of judges. Please vote. [[12:46:38]] For 281 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u141	Draft decision 8638. It is proposed that the judges be elected on an uninterrupted basis: to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Gurin Mikol Ivanovich, Sergeichuk Oleg Anatoliyovich, Harchenk Vasil Vasilovich; to the Dnipropetroval Administrative Court of Appeal, Martinenko Alexandr Vasilovich; To the Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal Bistrik Hanna Mikolayovna, Denisova Anatolia Alexiyovich and Sitnikova Aleksandra Fedotovic; to the Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Alekseiev Viktor Alexiyovich, Dimerlija Alexandre Alexandrovitch, Zolotników Aleksandra Sergiyovich; and to the Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Emilian Valentina Ivanovna, Melnik's Larissa Volodymyrna, Sirenko Olga Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u142	Dear National Deputies! If there's no warning. Please, if you have any warning, give me a name. Please, Stretovich. Please, Stretovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u143	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union of Our Ukraine. Vassil Vasilovich, as we understand you correctly, you said to select the appeal courts on an uninterrupted basis. Yeah? Is this not the term of appointment of judges for the rest of their lives, namely, the Court of Appeal? You didn't talk, so it sounds like they've already passed a five-year term, and they're supposed to be working overtime in appeals courts? Please explain the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u144	That's right, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, because we don't consider the appointment of judges in the first term for five years, that's the question of the High Council of Justice and the President of Ukraine by decree, and we're choosing the judges who are recommended today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u145	Yes, who else has a warning? Colonies, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u146	Vasil Vasilovich, I have a question, a clarification. You're a fan's family. There's a name that's not understood. Please specify your last name. Third, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u147	Dimmerliy Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u148	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u149	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u150	Yes, the honourable national deputies are put to the vote by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 8638]] Please vote. [[12:49:37]] For 329 [[Applause]] Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u151	Thank you. Project Regulation 8639. It is recommended to elect judges: Kyivsky's interdisciplinary appeals court in a timely manner – Korsakov Hanna Valeriyivna, Polishchuk Volodymira Yusefovich. Scargs, there's no claim to them either.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u152	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8639]] Please vote. [[12:50:27]] For 312 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, you have on your hands the 8640 decree on the election of the judges of the local Pecher district court of Kyiv to Smik Svetlana Ivanovna. But I ask you not to consider this question, the committee did not recommend it to the judge in certain circumstances, there need to verify certain facts, and, in addition, since it is not recommended, it has written a statement that is sick and asks to postpone consideration of the matter. I think we need to consider that and come back to that question later.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any other suggestions? It'll support the committee's proposal, right? Postponing the consideration until the committee is working on it. Yes, the question is closed. Let us welcome, fellow judges whom we have chosen to serve on an untimely basis today and wish them success. [[Applause]] A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u155	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations carried out the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Veterinary Medicine for consideration in the second reading. A task force was created. A number of suggestions and amendments were made to this working group. A total of 164 amendments were made by eight deputies. Most of the changes are taken into account. However, 86 are unaccounted for. This is mainly from Deputy Mikhail Vasilovich Loboda – 35 and from Tomic Ivan Fedorovich – 23. These proposals are not taken into account because they were not specific, that is, they are of a recommendational nature. And according to the Rules and Procedures, questions need to be asked, whether they are supported or not, because a specific proposal is being made. In general, the draft bill, to our deep conviction, meets the requirements of international legislation, and so we ask that the bill be adopted in a second reading and in general. This is the decision of our committee. I would like to mention the special amendment made by Deputy Sas and Tkalenko regarding the creation of a specialized central authority on veterinary medicine. This question was discussed separately on our profile committee. Most of the votes -- seven to two -- were supported by this proposal. And that's why: because, according to the MEB, veterinary authorities have to be independent, they have to make competent decisions and put some pressure on commercial structures, governments that don't have the authority to do that. So, honourable colleagues, when I finish my report, I would like us to support this bill -- this is the committee's decision -- in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u156	Who insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account? Mikola Melnik insists. Mikoli Melnik's microphone, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u157	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I hear they want to throw away the 7th National Veterinary Authority. I insist: you cannot create such a separate body that would be subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers. Worldwide, veterinary medicine is subordinated to the Ministry of Agriculture. There is only one difference in Estonia. Hence, in article 7, paragraph 1 is required to remain in the law. That's why I'm asking you with this point we are. The Socialist Party will vote, and without this point on the State Department of Veterinary Medicine, we will not vote. I'm asking you all to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, this amendment was discussed in the committee, I repeat, in very detail, and we put it to a vote. The seven deputies “for” support of this amendment and only two, from the Socialists, were “against”. So please, I'm asking you to take this amendment into account in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u159	Yes, Tkalenka, please, microphone. After the amendment, which one is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u160	I'm talking about the same amendment. Respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u161	What's the amendment, what's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u162	This is an amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u163	Here's the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u164	So it's the number 64. The point is that Amendment 61 states that the State Department of Veterinary Medicine carries out the Office of the Ministers with a special mandate as the central authority of the executive branch for veterinary medicine and veterinary medicine. territorial organs. Here, in article 6, we are talking about a special body. The point is that the Constitution does not provide for special organs. We have ministries and central executives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u165	Dear colleague, I'm making an amendment. It is suggested that the Department of Veterinary Medicine be subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers as an authority that should have special powers, even in the situation that has taken place in our country today in the Crimean Peninsula. That is, if there are no such powers, there will be inappropriate decisions. Moreover, the Department of Veterinary Medicine has direct contacts with both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Customs Service, the Foreign Service, the Bureau, and so on. So he must have that kind of authority. And this is a specific organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u166	Yeah, well, please, Tkalenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u167	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich, this is the central authority of the executive branch on veterinary medicine, which will be part of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's all right. But we don't have a special body in the Constitution, we don't know what a special organ is. We can't put that definition in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u168	I understand with you. It's not a special organ, it's a certain authority. Special powers. I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, the Cabinet of Ministers is composed of: Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister and Ministers. There are other central organs of executive power. We have central executive bodies: ministries, government committees, other structures that have the right status. And we have central executive bodies with special status, like that. This way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u170	Special status. We're talking about special status.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u171	Not a special organ. You were right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u172	Yeah, you're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u173	Please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u174	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I asked as deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Mikhailo Vasilovich, to report this bill to the committee. And I want to tell you that it's not only the behavior of the Minister of Agrarian Politics, but, being in bed now, the Deputy Minister of State is sitting on Mr. Baranowski's bed, he's very rude, cynical, wrong, there are witnesses to the committee, he's taking the committee on this issue. And so, dear friends, whatever they're saying today, we see that we've proved this to the Crimea, and so on, and so on, and so on, all over Ukraine's problems, it's just an unfair attitude and a struggle between these two -- the minister and the head of veterinary medicine. So I urge you to support the committee's draft decision, honourable deputies, and everything will be fine. This is for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. A second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. [[new editor]] Registration number 7602. [[13:00:08]] For 254 The law is passed. The law is passed. The word is given to the Head of the Counting Commission, Valery Dmitrovich Mishuri. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, allow me to introduce you to the content of Protocol No. 2 of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Counting Committee of December 22, 2005. The summary of the secret ballot on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine was heard. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine included the candidatures of Verni Dubov John Vasilovich, the Voice of the Voice of John Pantelijovich, the Lithuanian of Oleg Mihajlovich, Marcus of Mary of Andrew. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established the number of Ukrainian national deputies who were recognized, 427, the number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots, 86. In accordance with articles 85 and 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and chapter three seven of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission decided to consider the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as not taking place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the commission we have accepted for the Counting Commission remains in force, to publish what factions have taken ballots that have not been voted on. Then there will be no mutual accusations of who wants the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, who wants the function of a court, who doesn't want to. A draft Arms Law is being announced for consideration. Registration number is 1171-d. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement Services, Sergey Grigorovich Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The need for the adoption of the Weapons Act is dictated by the constitutional requirement that only the law should regulate the legal regime of property, namely, possession of arms. Meanwhile, at present the issue of arms circulation, such as acquisition of property rights, ownership, use, restriction of this right on grounds of social necessity, is regulated by the IMF's well-known instructions, which contradict article 41 and article 92, paragraph 7, of the Constitution of Ukraine and require legislative regulation. The drafting of the bill takes the utmost account of the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers, members of the Council of Europe on the harmonization of national arms legislation for 2004, the Chief Scientific and Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill, I stress, does not introduce anything new into Ukraine's legal field. At the same time, it provides for the implementation of the laws of the Law on Electricity, the Code of Forests, which already foresees the existence of security weapons, allows banks to protect their funds on their own, which will help to overcome monopolies in the armed defence market. The adoption of the bill, on the one hand, leads to the minimization of the militia's acquittal by denying the right to a hunting rifle without a court ruling on the anonymous call of an envious hunter neighbor. On the other hand, the law will allow society to be protected from unauthorized arms distribution. The standards of the law are in line with the requirements of the Constitution and are aimed at its continued implementation. I'm going to point out that the bill has been dilute for more than 10 years, and the IMF has consistently opposed it. Now the Ministry of Internal Affairs, after reviewing the project, has asked the Supreme Council for its adoption, for its adoption. At a meeting of the Committee yesterday, the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority for the draft Arms Act, prepared by the Committee for second reading, was considered. The Committee confirms its decision of 7.12. on the adoption of the bill in second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Let's put a motion to the vote. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Change the vote. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have consistently defended the arms bill since the year 94. This was the point of my election campaign, supported by the voters with their votes. But that's another name I'm proposing in Amendment No. 1 “On the circulation of weapons and ammunition in Ukraine”, this is the first, this is Amendment No. 1. Still, amendments were made, not as amendments to the main parts, but as a separate bill. This is starting with article 344, which is why individual pieces are used, they are implemented into the text, not indicating that it is the authorship of Yuri Carmazin, I think it is not quite the right thing to do. But I'd like it to be the law. And this law should be called “On the circulation of arms and ammunition in Ukraine”. Such remarks were made all the time by the Science and Experimental Authority, and they were talked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u181	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u182	Can I answer that question?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u183	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u184	So Yuri Carmazin made a completely new law, with a different concept. You remember that last year we passed this law, and, well, Yuri Karmazin's version is the law of the Republic of Latvia translated into English. Well, we can get there, we can install, we can get anything we can, we can get everything we can. But he has a completely different concept. And that's why the committee that's been asked to deal with this issue comes out of the concept of the first reading that we've already adopted. We can't take the law for 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u185	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u186	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I thought they'd apologize to me for taking a bunch of texts that were killed there, just stealing intellectual property, writing it down, now they're saying that I kind of borrowed it in the Republic of Latvia. But just so you know, all the European standards are being analyzed to one another, and we're being convinced right here in the hall, including showing that in France yes, and in Germany yes, in the United States yes. Why you stopped, focused on Latvia, I don't know. For the past 30 years, I have not been in and out of this country. So I'd like to make things more tolerant for us. Do you understand? Everyone happens to be, well, rewrote something, so tell me, Yuri Anatolyevich, well, it's counted. But the purpose is for them to adopt the law. Similarly, you cannot say that you have copied something in Latvians that I have not seen in my eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u187	There is an amendment to the vote number one, Yuri Karmazin. [[13:08:54]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Boris Bespali, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u188	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! Our faction and I support this law, but since it's such an important thing and it's very vulnerable to weapons, I have a few specific suggestions, one I'd like to make now and the other I'd like to make separately. First Amendment 38. There, antiquarian and historical weapons are given, as well as historical ones, to the antiquities. In fact, it's a year-old thing. Historical weapons are characterized by age and antiquarian weapons are valuable. For example, for a museum, this is of serious importance. So my proposal is, in this case, simple and editorial. I suggest you write antiques, historical weapons and so on throughout the text. [[by whom at least]] I mean it doesn't need, I think, any revolutions in the law, and I would agree with that, because it's really different things.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u189	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u190	The committee agrees. Then the following revisions of Boris Bespalogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u191	Thank you to the Committee on Mutual Understanding, which, by the way, has been demonstrated in every proposal, I have hundreds of amendments included. The next amendment is the principle. That's 118 revisions. Section 9 of the second section states that businesses, organizations, and so forth are allowed to use weapons according to legislation. The point is that legislation in a broad sense also refers to the legislation of individual ministries, for example, the laws and regulations of local governments. But since these are weapons permits, the arms permit should be granted only and exclusively in accordance with the laws adopted by the Supreme Council. It's not a trifle, because it's a weapon. Therefore, in this case, I propose that the word “legislature” be replaced by the word “law” so that no one here has any doubts, because the word “legislature” is, once again, about weapons. Please take that into account, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u192	Well, that's what I'd say. We've been looking into this. However, since there are still decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers, there are other issues that concern licensing, apart from laws, the Committee believes that it would be appropriate to leave the “legislature” option.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u193	I'm voting on Amendment 118 of Boris Bespalogo. [[13:11:55]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Boris Bespali, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u194	Thank you. I have the next 179. So it's about those people who are not allowed to have guns. And it says to those who have been sentenced to imprisonment. They may have been oriented toward old criminal legislation, since there are also forms in the new one that are as close as restrictions of will and arrests. I think that people who have received criminal punishment in the form of restrictions of will or arrest should also be deprived of the right to bear arms. And I don't think that was technically considered. If anyone thinks that those who have restricted their will have previously called it “chemistry”, they should carry their guns with them, for example, I do not agree with this, and I ask that this be taken into account, after completeing the “freedom of the will” statement also “condemnation of a person of arrest or restriction of will”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u195	Well, that's not particularly principled. I think the hall will take this option. We can basically let that happen, but most importantly, it's a person's conviction to be deprived of their will, of course, that the gun should be removed. To the judgment of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u196	I'm voting on Amendment 179 Boris Bespalogo. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u197	Well, let's support it. We don't mind. In the interests of compromise, let's support it. [[13:13:51]] For-94 The compromise didn't come out, unfortunately. The decision is not taken. Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u198	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, I just think it's a coincidence that we didn't vote in favour of forbidding the possession of weapons by people whose courts have convicted criminals, but not in prison, but given them restrictions of will for up to five years, it's also criminal punishment or arrest for up to six months! I think there's nothing to vote on. But now 184 revisions. So do I. It is now predicted that people with a criminal record are armed, which is then removed or put out. I think it's wrong. If he was a criminal criminal, he has no right to have and carry weapons. And so I suggest that it be here as a person who has been convicted should not have a weapon. And if a person is rehabilitated, it's a different matter. It's not repayment, it's the rehabilitation of the innocent. I'm against giving guns to criminals. So I'm asking you to consider 184 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u199	The point is that a person who has been punished can no longer be considered a criminal. You forbid people the right to reform and live in a normal society. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u200	The committee rejected the amendment. And he thinks it's absolutely right. He's been punished -- all of it, he's a normal citizen, he's entitled, including to weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u201	I'm voting on Amendment 184 of Boris Bespalogo. Now, one minute, now. [[13:15:50]] For-27 The decision is not taken. City hall, microphone, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I want to say to my friend who wants to become a moralist in this country, Lenin and Stalin and Cloud from Lukyanenko, on the one hand. But I don't buy any of them. On the other hand, in Ukraine today, the Ministry’s minister has been stealing from the cartels for two years and has been feeding all budget members products from his warehouses. And the fact that he's not convicted is not his fault, is that he doesn't work like Lucenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u203	Are there any other amendments? Please, Boris Bespali, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I am taking the floor on the basis of the Rules, because I have made over 200 proposals to this law, almost all of them included. So I have the right to work with the text, not just to have conversations here. And I think this law is so important because it's about weapons, and we have to think not only about the citizens we give it to or don't give it to, but about other citizens who will live in an environment where people with guns walk around them. And we don't care who gets it. In this case, I want to argue 210 amendments, where this is about, that guilty persons are responsible according to legislation. This is not a trifle, all lawyers know the difference between law and law. And I don't want responsibility to be set up, let's say, by the same police department. Responsibility should be established only by the Law. Please allow the committee to accept 210 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u205	Let's agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u206	Yes, is there a vote, if the committee agrees, shall we not vote on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u207	We agree, we agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u208	Well, committee, committee agreed. Let's count it. Yes, please, Bessom Boris microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I may feel that perhaps I am looking too closely at the Weapons Law. It seems to me that it is the Weapons Act that we should look at. So the next amendment is 305. Here are the rights and duties of gun users and it is written, that is the most principled amendment of all. I'm asking for your attention. What does the committee offer? Use weapons in accordance with the order prescribed by the law in force. I insist that the use of weapons can only be made in the order prescribed by the Law. Otherwise, we'll have the order of use of weapons, with all due respect, but they can set up local councils, separate interior ministries, separate department of executions and so on. In this case, well, think about what it's about, who gives the right: how do you use a weapon? So when can you shoot? I apologize for being straight and honest. Only the law can do that, so I think 305 amendments can't be disregarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u210	Well, I'd say yes, not all cases can be regulated by the Law, especially with regard to law enforcement. Thus, law enforcement officials have a position and order that is approved by the law, the law on militia, and the law on the use of weapons. But it is not the Law, it is a provision for application, or statute, or something else. It's not straight, you can't call it law. So we take into account that we need to expand the concept and do it, leave the choice of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u211	The vote is amended by 305 Boris Bespalogo. [[13:20:07]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Please make the next amendment, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I want to be clear here. I think the session room's a little bit deceived. The procedure for the use of weapons is determined by law. The law may provide that individual instructions are given for consideration and are already approved by the Ministry of Internal Affairs with a punitive statute, and so forth. But we write in the law that this is provided for by law. And as it says here, the chief of the police department may grant a permit for the use of weapons. It's just a thieving rule, if you want to be completely honest. You can't vote for that. And we had to work out on the committee. And this is the last time I want to say it. The 329th amendment of the same meaning, but weapons and ammunition are stored until the final decision is made. Once again, the order is to be established by law. Even the statutes of the army have a level of law. Therefore, it is simply impossible to vote in favour of such an order because we give weapons to anyone, whatever decisions we make and make our world dangerous. The committee should take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u213	The committee considered the matter. Please say disposal, this is a question of the disposal of weapons, ammunition, this is a matter of government, government structures. And once again, we can't regulate everything in such a kind of shallow, small household way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u214	A vote is taken on the amendment of Boris Bespalogé. [[13:22:08]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Please, Boris Bespali, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u215	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 333th amendment, but I, well, that's the reason I won't motivate her anymore, because there are many things voted that don't support the law as a whole. I'd like to pay attention to the committee. No one's suggesting that we push the little things into the law. There are illegal acts, but what these issues have to be regulated by the laws and the limits of these, they are still provided for in the law. The law states, for example, that the internal organs, there, must keep their weapons in accordance with their position, which are approved. It's all done, it's done. Just as it is written in your book, you are told that the use of weapons should be granted not only by law but also by individual, let us say, by services, that is, by themselves those carrying weapons will establish a rule. Come on. Wild West. It's the Wild West Act. So I'm asking you not to vote in this paper, but, since it's important, back up the second reading and there carefully deal with these things. We don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u216	So I'm answering. The law cannot provide for a small, soft regulation of its application. You suggest that when the law is drawn up, there, up to two or three meters to the law enforcement officer, you have to draw the gun and so on. That's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u217	Yes. What other amendments? Who insists on their amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u218	The committee does not support this. The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u219	Please, Andrew School, repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u220	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just want to point out that in this situation we are really talking about the Law on the Use of Weapons. Every moment of use of a weapon, when a police officer does so, a service investigation is conducted, when an ordinary person does so, a criminal case is under way. So I don't think these amendments have any grounds, so I propose to vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u221	Yes, please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u222	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. I'm going to talk about Amendment 344, and I'm going to talk about Amendment 341 later, because this is the defining point. I suggested that we write that this law does not extend to such weapons as nuclear, chemical, biological, other weapons of mass destruction. Objects and devices, structures or mechanisms that are not designed to be used as weapons, even though they may be used as weapons. Firearms that were manufactured before 1870 launching devices, bows and arrows designed for sporting purposes, military equipment and equipment, pyrotechnic equipment, launching devices, explosives, other than ammunition, explosive agents are all the procedures for the circulation of objects and devices listed here, are set up by other normative acts. This has to be written down as to how to define a weapon, but the definition of a weapon, they took me to Amendment 341, and then I'm going to justify it in 341.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u223	The committee believes that the amendment by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin does not correspond to the concept of the law is another law and the whole amendment is drafted, so to speak, in one chapter is a subject of another law that we have not adopted or considered. The committee is therefore determined to reject the amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u224	A vote is taken on the amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:26:24]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u225	Yuri Carmazin. The language goes to 341. I define that such a weapon is a device or an object designed or manufactured to destroy, harm or otherwise affect a living or other purpose. Then what is a firearm? This concept is practically not in this law because it says “it is driven by the instantaneous release of chemical energy from the charge of dust or other charges.” So weapons are defined through weapons. That's the wrong definition. Firearms are a device or object capable of being used as a weapon from which, by means of an explosive force of gas or air pressure, or any other propulsion force, a metal projectile, a bullet, an arrow and so forth, or a health-related or irritable agent designed for mechanical, thermal, chemical or other purpose at a distance. The main parts of firearms are viewed as firearms. Isn't it clear that we have to define? Otherwise, we'll have problems applying it. So I don't know why the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u226	Read page four of the law, paragraph eight: “Arms of fire are weapons in which a projectile is brought into motion by the instantaneous release of chemical energy of charge, dust or other fuel mixture.” Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u227	A vote is taken on the amendment of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:28:26]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Please, what are the other adjustments? None. There is a motion for a second reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a bill of the Arms Act. Registration number 1171-1, please identify yourself. [[13:29:07]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Now, I'm going to make a motion to re-read the draft Arms Act, registration number 1171-d, please identify yourself. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:29:37]] For-153 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on combating trafficking in persons and engaging in prostitution]] Marcus Maria Andriyovna, deputy head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! To implement Supreme Council resolution 3131 of 29 November 2005, a working group of the Committee on Law Enforcement Services prepared for second reading a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code by the Ukrainian National Deputies Stretovich, Bujko and Markusz. [[on combating trafficking in persons and engaging in prostitution]] The bill aims to bring the criminal code of Ukraine into line with the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 4, 2004. In the opinion of the Committee on Amendments to the Bill, the aim of the bill was complete, comprehensive, and rational. The nouvelles proposed by the committee of work are systemic and greatly expand the subject of right-wing regulation, including new forms of crime and crime that will enable effective international cooperation and effective cooperation in the detection and investigation of crimes committed by organized crime groups. The bill decriminalizes the rule of responsibility for systematic prostitution by excluding the relevant provisions of article 303 of the Criminal Code and by bringing into line with the structure of the codes of incorporation into prostitution. In the process of drafting a bill from legislators, 13 legislative amendments were made by the Ukrainian national deputies: Moses, Bandurka, Markus, Sinchenk, Derkac, Potek, Alexyuk, School, Kisse, Stretovich, Buiko, and others. 11 of these legislative amendments are taken into account in full and two amendments, the national deputy of the Ukraine of Kisse, partially counted. According to the Chief Legal Authority, the bill can also be adopted as a law taking into account the comments of the administration. The committee proposes to adopt the draft draft in the second reading and generally as the law of Ukraine proposed in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u229	What? What is the correction? Please, Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u230	Volodymyr Stretović, Christian Democratic Union. I want to remind everyone that this is a law that we developed together – Stretovich, Buiko and Marcus. I would like to state that the committee, at the last minute after the agreement last night, changed the final text that was issued today to inform the people's deputies. Thus, in article 149, paragraph 2, the word “trafficking ” was lost. I mean, as Mrs. Marcus put it right here, this rule fits in for us to implement a protocol against countering trafficking in human beings. And it says here, here's article three, I'm reading this protocol: human trafficking, that's recruitment, transportation, transfer and concealment. Why this is happening, I don't understand. As far as I'm concerned today, it's clear that some Ostapec at the Committee on Legislative Security is working, which is stopping this bill from being tabled. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we cannot work in this way. One text was agreed on last night, and it was completely delivered this morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u231	I can explain. Dear colleagues, indeed, the alternative was agreed upon, as my colleague Stretovich here said. I think it's some kind of technological error, and I'm not denying that the word "trafficking in people" has actually fallen out or that there's already a list of these species, there's recruitment and so on and so forth. That's why I think you can accept the bill by adding the word "trafficking in people" because that was really the option that was discussed yesterday and the final version was accepted with those words.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, such misunderstandings have been settled. Please, George Buiko. Please. Invite the national deputies to the session room, we'll make the decision now. George Buiko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u233	George Boiko, Communist faction. As co-author of this draft law, I officially claim the forgery of the project that was introduced into the session room. Yesterday, and we have a text that was agreed upon, not only concerns 149, there are sanctions in 303 and other details that completely undermine the bill's actual opposition to human trafficking. So I propose that we conduct a service investigation, not to look at it today, but to put this project out for the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u234	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u235	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head! There's a question here that we're actually legitimizing prostitution through this bill. Let's say that we cancel the legal responsibility, the criminal responsibility for prostitution, that is, for putting ourselves in use for money not once, and so on. Who is responsible for this? I'd like to know what the political forces are interested in, that when AIDS is in the country, we're still taking responsibility for prostitution. No one knows how to deal with this scourge. That's the first remark. And the second. We have a point made by the Chief Legal Authority. I'd like us to write everything down right now. And the right thing to do now was to make a proposal -- until this bill is done. Let's deal with these comments because they don't every time write science notes. Law enforcement. It cannot be accepted as a whole. And once again, we couldn't take criminal responsibility for prostitution when we have it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u236	Please, Maria Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, I understand that today, even if this bill is put to the vote, I see that there is already a certain part of the House that will not vote, a certain point here. Therefore, I do not object to this bill being withdrawn today from the voting and the postponement of the vote for the next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u238	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, the committee and the authors of the project propose to postpone its consideration for the next plenary week. With that in mind, let's do it. And I'm asking the management of the apparatus, to conduct a service investigation, why they're replaced by the provisions of this law. Yes, everything, the bill is being postponed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] The reporter is Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u239	Deputy Koval, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration of the implementation of the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee completed its work on November 1st and prepared for second reading in accordance with the requirements of Article 6.6. 2 Regulate the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It should be noted that in preparation for the first reading, the draft law was considered in committees and factions from which 263 proposals and comments were received, most of which were taken into account by the committee before the first reading, and the draft law was voted by the constitutional majority. In preparation for the second reading, the schedule of the plenary session is carefully worked out. Practically all the proposals made in the discussion of the draft law in the plenary session are taken into account. In addition, proposals were received from the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster; on culture and spirituality; on science and education issues, on the part of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Rudenka, Chikal, Cadyuk, Tereshuk. In the second reading, 192 suggestions were made to the comparative table. This is 123, minus 72. The rejected proposals are not really that many, given that one of the rejected proposals is repeated 17 times and the other is repeated seven to ten times. Unaccounted for mainly because they do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine or repeat the legal rules of other laws refer to the Supreme Council Rules or are subject to the regulation of other laws. On every rejected proposal, there is a legal basis, in practice, all proposals that do not conflict with the Constitution, the law, and the committee are counted. The bill was carefully implemented over almost two weeks with the Chief Legal Authority and the Editorial Department of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and submitted for your consideration without their notice. The committee requests that it consider the draft law prepared for the second reading and adopt it as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, one is an amendment, I must express it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one observation that, more faithfully, changes are made to the table of comparisons that you consider. With regard to the appointment of heads of secretariats and secretariats of committees, this is article 55. That is, it is proposed in 55 articles, where an article is called the structure of committee secretariats to report: Secretariats are headed by executives who are appointed and dismissed from office by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Supreme Council Committee and the Chief Executive of the Apparatus. That is to say, leave the double subordination that exists today, because in many deputies, committees raise questions about this amendment. So we decided that the committee decided, after considering it yesterday, to offer you such an editorial, to leave a double line. This applies to both paragraph 4, and paragraph 5, and paragraph 6 of Article 55, which is called the “Structure of Committee Secretariats”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u240	What are some warnings of correction? Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u241	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u242	Excuse me, Yuri Carmazin, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u243	Yuri Carmazin. I believe, sir, that the committee has worked well, but I have a small complement. They wrote that they seemed to have taken into account the amendment 70 of mine, article 16, paragraph 7. Indeed, it is written that you prepare suggestions for their systematization. And the word "codification" is not written. I ask you to add the word “codifications”. This codification legislation is used. One. I beg you to agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u244	We don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u245	Yeah. And codifications. And the next question is the 170th amendment. I'll tell you right away. I foresee in this amendment that the committee heads report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine or every six months, or a year, because we have had cases when the committee's vice-premier minister of Ukraine was head at the same time a deputy, while also managing business structures. So let's not make this happen, let's predict some kind of reporting. At least let them report once a year for half their activities. Otherwise, it's going to be complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, there are 24 committees in the Supreme Council today. The future of the calling may decide that there will be 27. Or ten. It could be different. But the committee reports on its work to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And every day he goes to the rostrum or the committee head, or his representative, and he reports a bill or something. Then the Supreme Council's apparatus analyzes the committee's activities, and we all get a review of the bill. If necessary, if the head of the committee is not working well, it will be seen by the entire Supreme Council and the Governing Body, and it will be decided by the appropriate nature. That's why we don't think it's appropriate to hold a large amount of plenary meeting time with committee heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u247	Are you insisting on your amendment? I'll take the vote on the amendment. He's taking it off. Takes off Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. Please, Carmazin, what's the next correction? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u248	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to say that there will be no need to vote for the amendment if these control functions are performed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, his first Deputy and Deputy for the Committees. And then we have committees whose heads we don't see in the rostrum, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. There are committees, I don't want to call them right now. Pick it up and look. So why are these committee heads there now, they're not in the hall at all. Where are they? Then we'll have to film them. And none of you are in control, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. So I want to, let's write it down, you control it. All of it. No questions asked, and I'm taking down my offer. Thank you for your attention. But I want everyone to work in this room, not just count. Do you understand? Now they're all going to the election, and they haven't done the work yet, they haven't reported back. So how can we ask the question that these are committee heads? That's why I asked that question. And I'm asking you not to vote for this amendment, but you need control anyway. Your control, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and your deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u249	There's control. Information on performance is provided. The Supreme Council should probably be evaluating the work of the committee head more often. That's true. What are some other warnings? I won't. The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7613, is put to the vote. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[13:45:40.]] For 288 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Television and Radio Broadcasting System of Ukraine, registration number 7539, is being announced. [[new editor]] Sergey Makarovich Pravdenko, head of the committee Dear colleagues, a very important bill. I'd like your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u250	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, you have before you the work of a great team, a work that has been going on for more than a month. I spoke to the leaders of many factions before going up to this rostrum today. It was very important for me to count the votes because it was rereading the second reading. I really don't want the work of the working group by negative voting, sorry I almost didn't. Under the tail, I'm sorry. And when you count it all, some say so, it's going to steal television, private. I say, well, I'm sorry, my dear friends, to offer a faction of Communists, which, by the way, is written in the form of a state enterprise that is not privatized. If you talk about it, someone's talking about their footage, it's their business. But I know that the proper language in Ukraine has not yet passed. And I know living examples of this, when tens of years are led by groups and they haven't stolen a penny and so on, and so on and so forth. And you can steal under any law, after all, it depends on your personality, and it depends on many other things, not just the law. Others do not want to because they are in power today. Others think that tomorrow they will be in power for what we are in society, although, by the way, the Council of Europe requires us, not what it requires, but what it recommends to have social television. “Reforms and Order” – for, the Lithuanian People's Block – for because we understand the progressiveity of this law, it is not accepted tomorrow, not for one day, Communists – for but not enough votes. So I'm asking very much, let people boil these things down, don't let channel owners be afraid of healthy competition, because that's the idea that I own a channel or something, and that's going to be a strong competitor. It's going to be strong in 3-4 years -- not tomorrow, it's not easy. In addition, on July 1, the following year, we predicted that we would not create in the election of these colleges. However, in the interest of keeping the law and the chances for the February month I, on behalf of the working group, ask you to postpone the vote and this is a matter to be postponed to February of the following year. But then you have to put it, or, or. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal that we should now vote and make a decision, adopt a document, adopt a law. If, God forbid, we don't take it back again and vote as much as we need to. Because we're going to carry it forever. The committee has a conclusion in its second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the proposals of the majority are absolutely taken into account, let's make a decision on this point. Please correct Shurma. Let's do what we can. He'll ask the national deputies to the session room and we'll be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u252	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Fifth article on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. In the first reading, the following edition was adopted: The Supervisory Board consists of thirty persons appointed to 15 by the Supreme Council and 15 by all - Ukrainian social organizations. I propose in the first part of the five to determine that the quota for MPs is 16 people, and at least half of them should represent the opposition forces. In a new edition, 15 people were proposed by the Supreme Council, and a standard of 8 from the parliamentary majority. If we follow democracy, if we want to go where we're being dragged to a civilized Europe, in fact, most of the quota should be from the parliamentary opposition. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be voted on. From the Supreme Council 16 persons and not less than half of the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u253	Dear colleague, we have considered your correction to be as sound as possible. But 15 from the Supreme Council, 15 from public organizations operating on a national scale for at least three years, have appropriate documents. They can name as many as 200 candidates, but then these 15 drawbacks, so they don't create, I'm sorry, the ground for corruption. And 15 from the Supreme Council, not 16, 15. A comparison between the public and the Supreme Council. But 7 – from the opposition, 8 – is the majority. Seven is from the opposition. One. The other one. Fifteen from the public. This is a potential field for opposition. Work, the future opposition. How many of yours are there, how many of them, I think. But still most -- there's a majority. Opposition. Eight, seven. We couldn't have divided by seven and a half. Thank you. Please either transfer or support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u254	Let's do that. There's a committee decision, we'll make a committee decision, and then we'll carry on if we do. Any more repairs? One minute, Sergey Makarovich, there's still an amendment. Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u255	Igor Šurma. First of all, I'm going to insist that amendment number 35, which provides for the majority of the parliamentary opposition to vote in numbers. And the second. Software policy. I propose that the new article 17.1 “Policy of speech” should include at least 60 per cent of the time when the language is spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u256	What kind of correction is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u257	64. The other one. Part of the air, when spoken in Russian, should be at least 30 percent. And the third. Films of Soviet times and films of Russian production should be given in the original language and possibly in the Ukrainian titres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u258	I'm voting on the amendment of the first 35 Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u259	I don't personally have any objection. As the room decides, I do not personally deny it. [[13:52:57]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Now the 64 Igor Shurma. 64, I read it: “The part of the air time when the language is spoken in English should be at least 60 per cent. The other one. Part of the airtime when spoken in Russian should be at least 30 percent. Films of Soviet times and films of Russian production are given in the original language, perhaps with Ukrainian titres.” There can be no “possible” law. But I'm still putting 64 amendments to the vote. [[13:53:54]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Now, if you'll have your attention. I put to the vote the proposal of the committee, the first proposal of the second reading committee and, as a whole, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the System of Social Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, registration number 7539. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[13:54:34]] For-119 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote a second proposal from the executive responsibility of committee head to refer to the second rereading of draft law registration number 7539. [[13:55:07]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions? Please: "Regions of Ukraine" - 31, Communists - 52, "Our Ukraine" - 4, National Party - 38, Block Timoshenko - 18, SPU - 1, National Block - 13, SDPU - 18, Ukrainian People's Party "Rebirth", National Movement of Ukraine - Zero, Reforms and Orders - 3, "Only Ukraine" - 5, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 0, non-fractional - 9. Yes, please, the committee is active. Please, Leveko Lukyanenko, microphone. Dear colleagues, let's continue our work for 15 minutes. In the second reading, we need to consider three small laws. Now we're going to vote on them and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u260	Yulia Timoshenko, Lukyanenko Dear colleagues, this law is essential in principle to Ukraine. In parallel to the television and radio companies that are now in existence and that are in the hands of individual businessmen and they are conducting their separate policies in the media, in the electronic media, it's radio and television, the public that we're talking about, it's very necessary, it's in all European states, to conduct cultural and state policy independently of the financial dependence of other television and radio companies. This text may be imperfect, but it is. But the law itself is very necessary. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose that we put this bill to the vote again to complete the future with a view to improving it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u261	I think we're going to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. I would like to announce today that there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council in 15 hours, with the participation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, the leadership of the temporary special commission for the drafting of Bill 3207-1. Please don't leave the session room. We have three other decisions to make. We continued our work for 15 minutes. The Conciliation Board will meet on the 3rd floor. Dear colleagues, we need to make three decisions about repealing the bills that we discussed in the first reading. This is a draft law on the introduction of additions to the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[about the circle of notes]] Missionary Victor Lavrentiovich will brief you. I'd like to mobilize, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, on January 19th of this year, we adopted in our first reading a draft of the Civil Code Amendment Act. [[questions from the circle of verbs]] Yes, the author and experts failed to formulate a final edition for the second reading so that it would not conflict with the unified billing law and the simple promissory promissory notes of the 1930 Geneva Promissory Conventions to which we joined. The changes adopted in the first reading of article 198 run counter to the requirements of a unified law. In addition, if the promissory note is presented to the person to whom it was handed over to the holder of the bill. This person, after paying for the bill, will not gain the right regression. And in general, the unhappiness of the bill, according to the unified law, is not the basis for declaring it invalid, and this bill requires that the bill be commercial, secured. Therefore, we cannot contradict international conventions that are part of our legislation. And that's the nature of the promissory note like that. Taking into account the above, on the basis of articles 3, 2, 4 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the decision of the Supreme Council of 19 January this year on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Supplements to the Ukrainian Civil Code, registration number 5616, should be repealed. [[about the circle of notes]] Sergei Matvienkov, author of this bill, understood this perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please be mobilized, dear colleagues. Let's make a decision and support the committee's position. Invite the national deputies to the session room. A motion is put to the vote for a committee to repeal the decision on the adoption of the draft Law on Supplements to the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[about the circle of notes]] Registration number 5616. Please vote. [[14:00:26]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two more papers, please. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information proposes that the draft Act on the Development of the Radio Information Area of Ukraine be repealed, registration number 2009. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. Motives are known. Please vote. [[14:01:00]] For 235 Decision taken. And the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information also suggests that we cancel our decision to adopt in the first reading of the draft Act on Information Openness of Governmental Authorities and Senior Officials of Ukraine. Registration is 2082. The explanation will now be given in this regard. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u264	Yuri Anatolyevich, you are personally our great legislator in all areas. The proposals outlined in this concept have long been taken into account in the Information Act of Ukraine, and in general a number of other laws. And there's still a small part left that needs to be taken into account in the next legislation. And if we adopt at least 10 laws on, called “Transparency”, it doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u265	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u266	I repeat, Yuri Anatolyovich, why did you come to me, dove? Go where you need to go to the Kabmin you've assigned. You're not pianist here before the election. Thank you for your attention. Even if you say "sweet" 10 times, you won't get sweeter in your mouth. I repeat, this concept is out of date, it's four years old. Very carefully and 99% is included in the current legislation. Please support the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m0.u267	I'm voting on the repeal of draft law, registration number 2082. Please vote. Dear colleagues, don't vote, he'll hang like a debt that doesn't give anything. [[2:02:37]] For 177 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear National MPs, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed until 4:00 p.m. At 15:20 a meeting of the Conciliation Council will take place on the third floor. I would ask the authorized representatives of the MPs and factions to be present at this meeting.
