ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. The 403 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Karnauha Mikli Vasilovich and Pinchuk Viktor Mikhailovich, who were 45 years old. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them success and good health. Dear colleagues, the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 13 December 2005. Seven issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: one law was passed, seven bills were passed as a basis, three bills were rejected, a Day of Government of Ukraine was held on the issue of “On the Status and Prospects of the Protection of Cultural Heritage Monuments” and “Fifth Anniversary of the Closure of the Chernobyl AES”. Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputies Alošin Valerija Borisovich, Moisik Volodymira Romanović, Ratushna Mikhail Jaroslavovich and Cibulka Volodymira Mikolaiovich from the Ukrainian People's Party. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kiroyans Sergey Georgievic, into the membership of the deputy faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. [[All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputies Burjak Alexander Vasilovic, Burjak Sergey Vasilovic, Vasadze Tariel Shakrovič from the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and their membership in the deputy faction of the Block of July Timoshenko. [[All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party]] Dear National Deputies! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 The Rules, Wednesday, take 45 minutes for the presentations of authorized members of the parliamentary groups and factions to make statements, messages, and information. I'd like the factions to file a statement. Let me announce the questions that have come from the national deputies of Ukraine. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Jurya SOLOMATANA to the President of Ukraine on the more than twofold delay in sending to the Council of Europe a letter on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. For – 167 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. Here comes the vote, please. For – 196 The decision is not supported. Puts the vote to the vote. And now I'm going to ask you a question. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine for the removal of Eugene Reddenek from the post of head of the Zaporozhye District Administration and for drawing him to the legally established responsibility for systematically corrupting the Ukrainian nation and for fuelling international hostility. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. For – 138 Request not supported. Vladimir GOSHOVSKI to the President of Ukraine for information on the carrying out of a gang attack involving the use of weapons on the national MP of the third call, Nina Pokotilo and her husband. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. For – 188 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. For – 226 Decision taken. Vladimir MATWEYEV to the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister, Secretary of the RNBO, Attorney-General for the protection of the interests of the State and the restoration of the rule of law regarding the privatisation of the State Shareholding Company's public stock package “The Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. For – 195 The decision was taken in support of the request. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. For – 214 The decision is not taken. Alexander GOLUBA to the President of Ukraine for the preservation of the Museum of the Eminent Ukrainian Painter John Chróstecki in the city of Pochayev of Ternopil. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. For – 155 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. For -172 The decision is not taken. Igora ŠURMI to the President of Ukraine on the inclusion of the professions of “phthisiatr”, “phritisiatr”, “phritisiatr” and “phritisiatr” in List No 2 on production, work, occupations, positions with harmful and difficult working conditions. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. For - 249 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. For – 275 Decision taken. Oleg BESPALOVA to the President of Ukraine regarding the obligation of employees of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine to provide a written reply to a request from the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Paul Eugrafov, regarding the imbalance in the pension security of military personnel. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. For – 142 The decision is not taken. Mr. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister for the removal of the Zaporozhye area outside the category of pay. I'd like to vote in favour of the request, please. For – 263 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. For – 263 Decision taken. Jaroslav KENJORA to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the shameful phenomenon of the absence of Ukrainian book production at bookstores in the Supreme Council. Alexander MASSENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister for the purpose of addressing the resident of Poltava in order to ensure the implementation of the Law on the Social Protection of the Children of War. LEVEL GLUCHIOVSKI to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the provision of bookshelves by the Ukrainian bookcase in the premises of the Supreme Council. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister for the reform of the system of government executive services. Mr. Andria POLITA to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the Budget Committee on Predicting the 2006 Budget in the State Budget of Ukraine, funds for the construction of the second branch of the Chernobyl-Hmelnicky watershed and the installation of a watershed in the town of Hmelnick. Victor TURMANOVA and Vasil HARA to the Prime Minister on issues related to the elimination of coal enterprises. Anton KISSE to the Prime Minister for the additional allocation of funds for the development of the engineering protection of the city of Reni Odessa. Vadima GUROVA to the Prime Minister on the threat of the environmental disaster in Krivbas due to the insurmountability of the problem of reducing mineralized mining waters. Valery CHICHOVA to the Prime Minister on the elimination of the structures of ministries and authorities involved in the realisation of property with the aim of creating a single transparent market for material assets. Victor MUSIJAKI to the Prime Minister for the status of implementing the “Children of Ukraine” program in the area of overcoming iod deficient diseases. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the provision of funds to complete the construction of a medical complex at the central district hospital in the village of Romanov Žitomirsk. Michael BAUERA to the Prime Minister for the payment of damages caused by natural disasters to the holdings of the Novoseltsky region of Montenegro. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General's Office, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the State Roads Service for Traffic and Lawlessness, which took place in the children's enterprise “Sumioblavtodor”. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister for the constitutional rights of the inhabitants of the Chaplin district of the Hersonian region to safety and health of the environment. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister on budgetary resources in the State budget for 2006 for the implementation of the provisions of the European Regional Language Charter ratified by Ukraine or in minority languages and the provision of a Charter of Charter Ratification to the Council of Europe. Georgia KRUCHKOVA to Prime Minister, Secretary of the RNBO for the conservation of the Open Shareholder Society “Saturn Science and Production Enterprise” as a unique complex for the production of equipment needed to ensure Ukraine's security and security. Deputies' groups to the Prime Minister in relation to the insufficient supply of fuel-based fossil fuels to citizens of coal miners of the decommissioned mines of the Donetsk region. [[RIBAK, TURMANOV]] Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister for the construction of a thermal power station in the village of Birka, in the region of Poltav, which was destroyed by the explosion on December 3, 2005. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister for preventing the decline of the coal industry of Lvivščina and the degradation of the cities of Czervonograd, Sosnovka and the village of Gojnik. Vassila HARA to the Prime Minister on the implementation of article 85 of the Constitution on the approval by the Supreme Council of State Social Development Programmes. Vitalia MOYCA to the Prime Minister for amending legislation in accordance with the Final Provisions of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring timely payment of wages. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister for the lack of funds to raise gas in the village of Tagancha in the region of Cherkas region. Eugene Filindash to the Prime Minister for the financing of a project created in the city of Shakhtarsk by a new sewing company. Mr. Mikli Nightenka to the Prime Minister on the failure of the Ministry of Finance to implement the decisions of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council on strengthening the social protection of citizens. Victor Taran to the Prime Minister for the reorganization of the Lisenka Music International School of Music into the High School of Performing Arts and its status as the National Institute of Education. [[TERRITO]] John BASTRIGUA to the Prime Minister for the settlement of double taxation of enterprises. Mr. Vladimir ZAPATANSKI to the Prime Minister for the gasification of the village of Velika Korniha Mikolai. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the socio-economic crisis in the Valley region of Kirovograd, which has become one of the reasons why peasants are unable to work on gassing their homes. MICHELLA TO THE Prime Minister for the insufficient implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the construction of pipelines and the gasification of rural settlements. Leonidas SERGEANT to the Prime Minister for the unsatisfactory payment of fines for uncreated workplaces for persons with disabilities by an open-ended mining and metallurgical community of the “Criminal” and some other companies in the city of Krivi Rig and inadequate government funding for rehabilitation of persons with disabilities in the Dnipropetrovsk oblast. Georgia KRUCHKOVA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the unsatisfying state of preparation for the industrial disposal of Ukrainian stockpiles of anti-personnel mines. Deputies' groups to the Prime Minister on the debt of salaries to employees of enterprises in the city of Torez Donetské region. [[HARA, TURMANOV]] Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister on debt from earnings to employees of the State Enterprise “WatutinUglRestructuring”. [[THE DAVID, THE COMAR, and others]] Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the completion of the gasification of the Kalanchik district. Larissa POLAKOVA and RAISA BETWEEN THE Prime Minister for the creation of a system of assembly, analysis and processing of indicators for monitoring the situation with regard to the use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances “National Drug Observatory”. Mikoli CATHERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the Kobzarik Litharka Litharka at Cosatian Public Education School No. 9 of the Vinnitsk Region. Anatolia Rachánské to the Prime Minister, Head of the Federation of Trades concerning the use of measures to prevent the collapse of sanatorium treatment and rehabilitation in the sanatoriums of Ukraine. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for insufficient funding of the budgeted subsidies, as well as “Programme for informing the general educational institutions, computerisation of rural schools” and the acquisition of school buses in the Kitzman constituency No.203 of Cherniewsky region. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the elimination of the pension balance and the increase in the pension size according to the pensioner’s employment contribution. Mr Mikoli HARPOČKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the illegal withdrawal from state property of strategic objects, namely high-pressure gas pipelines and their transfer to the balance sheet of the closed “Sverodononian Association of AZTO”. Vladimir RIBAK to the Prime Minister for the lifting of the Ministry of Transport and Communications Orders No. 540 of September 12, 2005, No. 588 of September 27, 2005 as being in conflict with legislation. Vassila NADRAVIA to the Prime Minister for the payment of the debt on the payroll of the employees of the banks in Lugansk. Victor HORBAČOVA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Board of Directors on the increase in salaries for military personnel and staff members of the Board of Directors. Efima FIXA to Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, on the solution of the socio-occupational problems of the citizens of the garrison Belbek military unit No. 4515. VADIM MISSURA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Ivano-Frankov District Administration, regarding the delay in the construction of socio-cultural objects in the transmission state and the gasification of the Rožnetów mountain villages in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. LEVEL GLUCHIVIH to the Prime Minister for a government decision to review the rent for the stay of the Russian Black Sea fleet base in the Ukrainian town of Sevastopol. Mikoli CATHERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General for environmental degradation in the town of Nizhin Chernigów. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, on the debt of wages to younger medical staff of the Institute of Heart and Surgical Surgery, Amosova, in August - November 2005. Valery BORZOVA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Kirovograd District Administration, on the elimination of the threat of an extremely ecological situation in the Kirovograd area resulting from the critical condition of the clean-up facilities at the Lighthouse plant “Calculator” and the liquidation of the debt owed to employees of the company on salary Mr. Vladimir ZAYZ to the Prime Minister for the completion of the gasification of the villages of Matviyovtsi and Grinkovci in the area of Ternopil. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the continuation of the construction of the historical museum in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. Ms. Alexander KARENKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Wynnick district government administration for the provision of central water supplies to the inhabitants of the town of Mogilov-Podilski. Valery BORZOVA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Kirovograd District State Administration, for the completion of the gasification of the village of Charive Bobrinecki. FIXA to the Prime Minister for the abolition of Part 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1 of 3 January 2002 “To increase pensions and other social benefits to individual categories of pensioners financed at the expense of the State budget”. Sergia CHICHANOVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister to delay the issuance of a licence for the operation of the Speleo sanatorium “Salana symphony” in the city of Soledar Donetské region. Anatolia LOVINA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Environmental Protection of the Environment for the financing of actions in the area of South-Dniprov region's exceptional environmental situation. Vladimir ĆENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Melnik for the preservation of the Počapina sugar plant of the Lysian region of the Cherkas region. Sergia CHICHANOVA to Deputy Prime Minister Melnik in connection with the illegal actions of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy regarding the removal of state-owned enterprises “Sadovod” and “Radgosp – Osipenko” from the Sewastopol Industrial Zone. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, Minister of Defence, for delaying the execution of the decision of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Michael BAUER to the Attorney General regarding the illegal examinations of the Radkow Public Education School in the region of Czernovetsec. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the head of the Chief Bureau of Forensic and Medical Research, on the abuse of the official position of some of the staff of the Izumi Interstate Prosecutor's Office when considering the appeals made by residents of the city of Isum Kharkiv. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the situation of the death of a citizen of Shevchenk at Lubna Railway Station. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, concerning the unlawful conclusion of the lease between the Ternopil State-Communical Network and the Cromwell private enterprise. Mr Leonida GRAČ to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Supreme Council, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the purposeless use of the budget allocated to the creation of the Russian editor of the State Broadcasting Company Crimea. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney-General regarding the situation surrounding the privatisation of the Odes Porting Company. John TOMIĆA to the Attorney General for the improper investigation of criminal cases involving the theft of farm property, “Smola” in the Kyiv region of Borispil. Mr. Vladimir MacKEENKA and Mr. Komara to the Attorney-General's Office, Head of the Board, Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence on the matter, said the Minister of Internal Affairs about Leonid Kuchma's negotiations on the transfer of power. LUKJANENKA’S left to the Attorney General on the gravity of the criminal investigation of the direction of the Malsoltanian Rural Council in the district of Kijiv. Valeria Assadchev to the Attorney General on a lengthy, unbiased investigation of a criminal case. Georgia SCUDARA to the Attorney General regarding the misconduct of the head of the Kramator City Department of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Donetsk district of Solodun and the investigators Mikhin and Kozlov. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Attorney General for the examination of the actions of the employees of the Winnick District Attorney's Office for the facts cited in the address of shareholders and employees of the Open Shareholders Association “BudMateriali” of Vinnice. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Board for the unlawful possession of State property in the treatment and prevention complex of Feofania of the National Academy of Sciences and Unlawful Activities of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Obollonian District of Kiev and the Oblonsky District Department of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev, aimed at transferring State property to the National Academy of Sciences of Private Structure. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General on the legality of energy companies. Alexander BONDARCHUKA to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Head of the Supreme Court for actions by officials and officials that impede the execution of the judgement. Leonidas SERGEANTA to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, on the illegal actions of the Department of State Executive Services of the Dnipropetrov City Department of Justice regarding the removal of the government of the merger of the joint owners of the multi-story Cosmos. A group of deputies to the Attorney General's Office, Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the illegal actions of police officers against members of the Crusade on 22 November this year in the city of Kiev. [[ISAIAH, THE KING]] Eugene FYLINDASHA to the Attorney General, Head of the National Television and Radio Board, to ensure that the requirements of national law are met by the National Television and Radio Council. In connection with the construction of the house in its territory, which is likely to be called Janukovića, Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General for violations of the rule of law, disregard for the historical, landscape and architectural values of the park’s Feofania. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Attorney General on the attempt to discredit the activities of the Office of Drug Control in the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Odessa region for the detection of drug crimes through the help of prosecutors. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney General on the abolition of the Henprocurator’s office from a parliamentary request regarding the involvement of former prosecutor Kyiv Kuzmin for unreliable information regarding the illegal construction of a house in Mariin Park. SLABENKA to the Attorney-General on the facts of the illegality of the creation of a closed shareholder association, the “Severonational Union of “Azot”. GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the Attorney General regarding the inaction of the prosecutor’s office in Kiev, printing a copy that does not correspond to the reality established by other authorities of the State and the silence of the corruption of officials of the executive body of Kyivrad. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Attorney General regarding the response to the inflammation of interreligious hostility and the possible involvement of the party: Progressive Socialist Vitrenco, “Soyuzu” Kostusiev, “State” Vasiliev, “Brotherhood” of the Korchin and Orthodox Brotherhood of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate until the burning of the chapel on the site of the construction of the Greek-Catholic Temple of Christ in Kiev. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Kiev City Head for the armed attack on the People’s Deputy’s Deputy III calling Nina Pokotilo and her husband, forcing them to alienate the land on the street of Pripetski in Kiev. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General for illegal activity by officials of the Zaporez district clinic in developing the terms of the tender for the purchase of state equipment and expenditure and uncontrolled law enforcement from the Ministry of Economics. The Anatholic of RACHANS to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Industrial Policy, the Head of the State Foundation, the Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, on the ground of dissatisfaction with the request to prevent the destruction of a unique venture of hard-won construction in Odessa. Tamara PROSCURATO to the Attorney General regarding the situation in the education sector of the Drabów district of Cherkas region. Teams of deputies to the Attorney General, Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption for the Investigation of Criminal Persecution by Alexander Gerasimenko. [[TOMIC, PANASIAN]] Deputies to the Attorney General on the use of administrative resources by the heads of the Interregional Academy of Personnel Management in the creation of party centres and paramilitary groups. [[JUCHNOVIAN, FELDMAN]] Yulia YOFFE to the Attorney General, Head of the holding-meine Foundation for the sale of a dormitory in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, evicting residents without the provision of other housing and the legality of the operations of officials and officials of the Regional Office of the State Property Fund and the closed-circuit association Eagle. Anatolia PISTARENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, regarding the unauthorized selection of the gravel-sand mixture from the border rivers. Gregory SURKISA to the Attorney General, Head of the Wallin District State Administration for the arbitrary capture of the territory of the Lutsky branch of the Ukrainian Blind Society. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Lugansk District Public Administration, on the liquidation of arrears on the payment of salaries to former shareholders of the “Shakht “Zedawiska” company of the Donetsk region. Mr. Mikoli KULCHINSKI to the Attorney General for a critical situation and violations of the open stock company Bilšovik and the prosecutor’s office in the district of Kiev. Yulia IOFFE to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, on the failure to execute a court decision by officials of the Babushkin District Department of State Executive Services of the Dnipropetrov City Department of Justice. Vassil Hara to the Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine on the legality of the Presidential Decree “On the Day of Freedom” of 19 November 2005. RAISES TO THE AUTHORITY OF HUMAN RIGHTS, Minister of Foreign Affairs, regarding the consideration of the petitions made by the citizen of Skripko regarding compensation for the murder of her daughter by a Dutch citizen. Valentina MATWEJEVA to the Head of Public Administration of Ukraine’s affairs on improving the living conditions of the preschool teacher’s family. Jury CARMAZIN to the Secretary-General of the RNBO, the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the Kiev City Chief of Staff for the limited number of officials of the Kyiv City State Administration and the law enforcement authorities of the constitutional rights of citizens to work, entrepreneurial activity, information on the prohibition of the distribution of printed media and the creation of monopolistic advantages for predetermined businesses in the press trade. The Anatolia of Korczynski to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the violation of the constitutional rights of a citizen by the Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the Lviv Railway in connection with the failure of the Court of Appeal. CATHERINA SAMOLIK to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for beating up believing police officers. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Minister of Finance on the implementation of article 46 of the Act on the Amendment of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2005 and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. Dmitry PAVLIČKA to the Minister of Education and Science on the extent to which Ukrainian literature is taught in educational and vocational institutions. Gennady RUDENKA to the Ministry of Health for the maintenance of the district hospital in the village of Radivonovka, in the region of Poltava. LEFT BIRUKA to the Minister of Justice on the violation of the Constitution and the Law “On political parties in Ukraine” by the political party “Regions of Ukraine”. Larissa SACHANKO to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing on the protection of the constitutional rights of war veterans affected by the illegal settlement of the issue of privatization of housing. Anton KISSE to the Ukrainian Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of raising the level of social protection of Ukrainian citizens who participated in nuclear tests in the atmosphere and underground during military service. Boris SLEEP to the Ministry of Health for the annulment of the Order of the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of October 10, 1998 “On the Approval of State Sanitary Rules and Standards of Working with Visual Display Terminals of Computing Machines”. RAISES OF THE wealthier to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding violations by members of the police of the constitutional rights of citizens during a peaceful visit to Kiev on November 22, 2005. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the creation of the Executive Directorate of the Social Insurance Fund for the Temporary Loss of Employment in the District of the Rhine region. Alexander GOLUBA and Vladimir SIMONOVA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the efforts of the management of the “Post Office” to close the cost-effective post office in the Donetsk Region. member groups (TARAN(TEREN), CITNIK, TOLOČKO) to the Ministry of Health on the inclusion of the programme “Family Health – National Health” in the national programme “Reproductive Health of the Nation 2006-2015”. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the construction of a passenger platform in the Wilok-Vinogradov race. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Minister of Education and Science for Unsatisfying Response to the Appeal of the Directorship, the Pedagogical Group and the parents of the students of the village of Bilska Vola Volodimirecki district of the Plain region, on the reconstruction of the material and technical base of this educational institution. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Defense for the Inadmissibility of Retirement to veterans of nuclear testing and training in the use of nuclear weapons. Zorya, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the pension insurance of the employees of the Soviet Union of the “Zorya” of the Simferopol region. Igor KALICKEN to the Minister of Economics, Kiev City Head, for the transfer of the house along the street. An Old Waterman in the municipal property of the city of Kiev Teams of deputies to the Minister of Justice on the harmonization of legislation on the return of employees in debt of earnings. [[COMAR, HOLIDAY]] Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister of Education and Science on the need to settle social benefits for rural teachers. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the improper response of the Ministry to numerous violations of intellectual property legislation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Minister of Defense for the financing of the military town of the F-1662 Radio Centre in the Zakarpatsky region. Jaroslav JEJIKA to the minister of environmental protection for the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the minister in the family, youth, and sports field for the assignment of the international class sport master of pool sports in Russia. Jury CARMAZINA to the Secretary of Defense for preventing the destruction by the deployment of the Western Operational Command Dramatic Theatre, which is the historical and cultural acquisition of Ukraine and the only kind in the SND. Aleksandra CARENKA to the Ministry of Health for the provision of assistance to a citizen named Dichenko, who is in critical condition as a result of the negligence of the medical staff of the Poltavian District Hospital. Anatholics of the Writership to the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing for the violation of existing legislation in the form of land ownership in the city of Smila Cherkas region. Teams of deputies to the Minister of Education and Science on the violation of education legislation by the Interregional Academy of Personnel Management. [[GMIR, SADOVA]] Vladimir BRONNICOA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the Blackwater Disaster’s environmental impact on the village of Mala Bilozorka, in the district of Zaporozhye, which resulted from the fires of poisons on unsuited warehouses. Oleg BESPALOVA to the Minister of Defence on the clarification of article 1, paragraph 12, of the Act on State guarantees for the social protection of members of the military who are released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and their families. Mr. Vladimir PETRENCA to the minister of justice for improving the ministry’s activities. Vladimir YAVORlSKI to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for initiating negotiations in front of U.S. and French foreign authorities regarding the return to our nation of archival materials of a prominent Ukrainian writer and politician, the first head of the Department of the Ukrainian People’s Republic of Vladimir Vinicken. Larissa UZACHENKO to the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the problems of gasification in the Savran district of Odessa. Jaroslav Fedorczuk to the Head of the Detainee Foundation, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the inaction of the liquidator of the Open Shareholder Society “Bortnici Tribal Plant” and violations of citizens’ housing rights. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Head of the Luhansk district administration for the thermal supply of apartments in the city of Novomaśk Lugansk. Mr. Leonida GRAČ to the Head of the Board on the falsification of the signature of the National Deputy of Ukraine Leonid Grač. VICTOR OF DIVORCE TO THE HEAD OF THE LIVING GIVING OFFICE FOR DRINKING DRINK WATER for the inhabitants of the village of Romanov in the Zitomir region. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Head of the Vinnick district government for payment to the villagers of the village of Veliki Krushlinci of the Winnicki district of Vinicki Region for renting rations. Teams of deputies to the Head of the State Road Service on the inclusion of the streets of Artemyowsk in the list of public - budgeted objects in 2006. [[MATWICHUK, POLICHUK]] ZARI KATUSHOVI to Theodosian City Head on the problem of the problem of the transit of the citizen of the village of Szcebetovka. Groups of deputies to the Head of the Supreme Court for violation of article 1 of the First Protocol to the Convention for the Peaceful Rule of Property. [[COMAR, HOLIDAY]] Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Head of the State Tax Administration for providing information on the gaming business. Eugene HURNIKA to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission for refusing to register the Natalia Vitrenco Electoral Block “National Opposition” in connection with the presence in the electoral programme of the situation of a violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Head of the Pension Fund for the correctness of the retirement of former air traffic controller Kamyanec Podil Airport. Jurya DIDENKA to the Head of the holding fund for the return to the state ownership of the state-owned stockholder holding company “Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant” of Mikolayev. The Group of Deputies to the Head of the Pension Fund for the Timeliness of Retirement for Coal Workers [[PANUSIAN, VERNIDUBOV]] Mr Wojša to the Head of the Herson District State Administration on the status of the use of subsidies to local budgets for the construction of pipelines and gasification of populated areas, primarily rural. Teams of deputies to the Head of State Tax Administration regarding violations of the International Academy of Staff Administration of the Higher Education Act, entrepreneurship in the provision of services in the field of liquor, security and transportation. [[FELDMAN, RADIO]] Mr. Vladimir CIBULK to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organizational Work of the Supreme Council, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information concerning the violation by the Attorney-General of constitutional rights to freedom of speech and information by Lux. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the Head of the National Bank on the return of citizens by Intercontinental Bank. Group of Deputies to the Head of the National Bank on the illegal opening of branches of the Interregional Academy of Personnel Management. [[GROMA, KARNAUH]] WOLDODIMARY PEACE to the Head of the Wallin District State Administration for the closure of the crossing of the railway line into the territory of the village of Dródne Kovelski district of Volinsk. Gregory SURKISA to the Head of the Wallin County Administration for the violation of the rights of veterans of the Great Homeland War and for the guarantee of their social protection in the Volin region. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Head of the Odessa District State Administration regarding the submergment of the village of Vygoda Biliai district. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Head of the holdingmain Foundation on a critical situation and violations on an open stock company called Bilšovnik. Mr Wojša to the procurator of the Herson region for the enforcement of legislation in the gasification of the village of Chernink Kakhov. Alexander TKALENKA to the prosecutor of the Herson region for the formal examination of the facts of the sale of shares in a closed stock company of the Blackbaijska farm and the response to the parliamentary appeal. A group of deputies to the prosecutor of Kiev, the Ministry of Education and Science on the breakdown of the educational process in a series of schools in Kiev on 22 November 2005. [[THE PROTOCOL, ISAIAH, and others]] Thus, honourable fellow Members, 165 parliamentary inquiries have been made. By factions, please: Communists 35, Ukrainian Regions 25, National Party 6, Our Ukraine 15, Block Timoshenko 11, SPI 8, Ukrainian People's Party 7, SDPU (o)-25, National Block 7, People's Trust – 4, Reforms and Orders – 4, One Ukraine – 2, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs – 2, National Movement of Ukraine – 7, non-fractional – 7. Dear colleagues, we've spent 45 minutes asking MPs. Now we've got speeches and then we've got motives. Dear colleagues! Now we need to spend another 45 minutes on the performances of authorized representatives of MPs and factions. Vladimir Hare from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. [[united]] Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u2	Thank you. Vladimir Hare, faction of Social Democrats. [[United]] Dear colleagues! Let me make a statement on the Ukrainian authorities' intentions to bury radioactive wastes of foreign origin in Ukraine. This statement was adopted by the XX Assembly of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Respectable compatriots! For nearly twenty years, Ukraine and the Ukrainians have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster. Radioactive pollution has also been observed in Russia, Belarus, and some Western European countries. The heroism and self - sacrifice of Ukrainian firemen have halted a global catastrophe. Millions of Ukrainians have suffered the devastating effects of a peaceful atom and have been granted the status of the Chernobylites. Yet this status does not show the State’s concern for the victims as much as it does for their health. The Chernobyl disaster made Ukraine the most ecologically dangerous, and the Ukrainian nation the most sick. The world community of its time left the Ukrainians alone with the Chernobyl disaster, after closing the CHAES power grids. However, Ukraine’s financial liabilities have not been met today. Learned by bitter experience, Ukrainians would have to take care of their radiation and environmental security. However, recently, while in Chernobyl, the president of Ukraine announced the possibility of being buried in a zone of alien waste alienation. With remarkable ease, the nation’s leadership is ready to turn Ukraine into a European grave of radioactive waste. Maybe this will be the beginning and the price for our nation's integration into European and Euro-Atlantic space. This position of the President of Ukraine is viewed as a challenge for his people. It testifies to the inability of the authorities to deal successfully with the socio-economic problems of the state and shows the willingness for questionable financial assumptions to account for the health of the nation. Social Democrats are strongly protesting these Ukrainian authorities' intentions and claim that they will in all ways oppose and prevent these plans from being implemented in Ukraine. [[United]] SDPU(o) appeals to Ukrainian citizens to protect their constitutional rights, the rights of their children and grandchildren to safe living conditions on their own land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u3	Oleg Zarubinsky of the faction of the People's Party. Prepare Volodymyr Broninkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u4	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian National Block. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Recently, political passions in this room have been removed from society's reaction to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to increase wages for government officials, for employees of the Presidential Administration, for national deputies, for judges. We offered to get out of the situation. The draft decree made by members of the People’s Party faction obliges the government to reverse the previous decision. The minister can't get 20 grand. A bracelet if you pay a doctor and a teacher for everything. But the reaction of society to the appetites of power moves us to take a closer look at the problem of pay in Ukraine. The wager on cheap labour today has become a powerful brake for the economy. The disastrous decline in labour prices, which began in 1992, with the failure of the national product redistribution system through social consumption funds, was a shock to society without therapy. Monetary policies to combat inflation through the severe limitation of money, the freezing of wages, and the liberalisation of money have led to the loss of social security, its compensatory and, above all, its motivational functions. This has resulted in uneducated Ukrainian poverty. It's phenomenal because it's labor poverty! According to statistics, 80 percent of families who cannot make ends meet are families where one or two adults work. This situation has not only blocked the middle class process; it has caused millions of labor migrations, brain drains, and demographic crises. The policy of cheap labour — and more precisely, exploitation and exploitation — has robbed Ukraine of a strong and stable domestic investment resource that is a viable demand for citizens. Let us remind ourselves that Americans came out of great depression with the slogans “The High Wage of Workers – The Best Commercial Principle!” And Ford, by the way, became a Ford just because he made sure that his cars could buy simple workers. The above facts are only a visible part of the iceberg, because beneath the water is a completely distorted structure of self-sustainment, which dominates material costs. The share of wages even in economically active and exportable industries does not exceed 10 percent, and the average per country varies between 5 percent. In a civilized world, these figures are not less than 35 to 50 percent. In view of this, the People’s Party’s faction believes that only a complex change in the wage system can bring economic well - being and social autonomy back to society. The ideology of this reform, its parameters and its components must be considered with the participation of all interested parties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u5	Vladimir Bronnikov of the “Ukraine Region” faction. Please, your performance. Mikola Nightshenko prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u6	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of the Party of Regions of Viktor Yanukovic. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! You have seen in our history many examples of inadequate statements by the leadership of the country. But the last presidential statement he made on 8 December during his visit to the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant goes beyond the generally accepted framework. The President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, expressed political readiness to consider proposals for the dumping of irradiated nuclear fuel, as well as other radioactive wastes from foreign States in the Chernobyl area. This is with my country taking one of the first places in Europe in terms of oncological pathology and thyroid disease. We are a terrible first place in the leukemia of children. All of this is also the result of the Chernobyl disaster. And now talking about the possible introduction of radioactive debris from all over the world is a state ingenuity, if you don't say more. This is a total disregard for national legislation and world practice. What love for a private Ukrainian and Ukraine can he speak of after such a statement. Before making such statements, the President of Ukraine should have wondered whether there were relevant studies, calculations that justified even the temporary storage of national radioactive wastes and irradiated nuclear fuel. The President should know that the Chernobyl area is located on swamps with large amounts of groundwater. You could say it's a real underground sea. If radioactive waste is brought there, it could lead to a planetary technological catastrophe. Radioactive dirt is growing not only in Ukraine but also around the world, and then even the President will not be able to drink clean water anywhere in Ukraine, which is so much and often told about love. We address our citizens: do you want our country to become a European waste dump site? Do you want your children to drink dirty water and eat contaminated foods? The “Regions” party and its faction in the Supreme Council are confident that you do not want such a future for yourself and your children. Therefore, all of us must say no to such ideas of the present power. The “Regions” faction strongly states: even if tomorrow we will be invited to NATO and the European Union, Ukraine will not be a world dump!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u7	Mikola Nightshenko, please, National Block. Get ready for Stanislav Long.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On October 5th of this year, the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, became effective. [[on the payment of war veterans by a crinkled balloon gas for domestic needs]] When discussed and accepted in the Supreme Council, it was taken into account that the aid was paid by a crinkled balloon gas for 10 years, and it was suspended by a government that was formed at the beginning of the year. Well, you have to tell the truth: the government of Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko. And secondly, that the budget had the required amount of money. In November of this year, at the request of the electorate, in order to speed up this process of law enforcement, we made a request to the government. But it turned out to be better, and it worked out as usual. In response to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, signed by Rosenko, the voters were informed that the prescribed Law was in operation and that the regional labour and social protection agencies of the population were given appropriate instructions for this purpose. It's really a state position. But at the same time another department, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, signed by Matviyczuk with a letter, which, by the way, is not registered in Minsk, to the Ministry of Finance of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Crimea, the district, Kiev, Sevastopol City Financial Administrations, has suspended the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of War Veterans with a Plum Bubble Gas. I'm sorry, but the fact is, your team, Victor Andryovich, is looking for reasons for failure to comply with the law you signed. Failure to fulfill your repeated promises to veterans to increase their social protection. In accordance with article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, I am addressing the Prime Minister for the second time today. Yuri Ivanovich, commission the Minister of Finance, Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich, to immediately withdraw the letter and provide war veterans with the 2005 Plumbing bubble gas for the needs of the household. We're going to make another promise that we made to the 60th anniversary of Victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u9	Stanislaw Long from the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine is invited to prepare John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u10	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is deeply concerned about the faction of the Party of “Industrials, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine” that are causing government actions that are actually undermining the prospects for high-tech production in Ukraine, both by foreign investors and by domestic producers in this area. President Viktor Yushchenko successively takes state priorities for investment and innovation in Ukraine. In turn, the government, by completely canceling the spring-friendly regime for special economic zones and technoparks aimed at combating corruption, which is, in fact, partially small in this area, has so far taken firm action against any special conditions for investing in Ukraine. That's why our country lost hundreds of millions of dollars in investment and thousands of new jobs. Global giants of the electronic industry, whose gross income exceeds $200 billion last year, joined the Eastern European working group to coordinate the next investment cycle of mass production in Eastern Europe for alternatives to China and India. As early as this year, Ukraine was their priority. The sudden abolition of the regime of free economic zones and special economic zones and technology parks, the further ineffective work of the government with these investors, has led to investment going to our neighbours, particularly Russia. Ukraine falls out of the next investment cycle for at least 2-3 years and may lose these investors forever. The arrival of such companies in Ukraine would allow the inclusion of billions of dollars in investments, create at least a few hundred thousand new jobs, and produce a higher technological contribution and an appropriate education system. These companies are 100 percent export oriented. At the beginning of their work, they would import 100% of their production kits, planning to develop local production of up to 60% over five years. For them, the speed of delivery of products to consumers, especially in Europe, is crucial. But too slow and complicated customs procedures for importing and exporting and compensating VAT in Ukraine for these investors are unacceptable. Several draft laws have been developed, the main idea of which was to provide tax benefits in connection with the TPR, and the secondary issue of special customs zones comes. Low quality and content of these bills give little chance to be approved. From this point of view, Russia will win. Having no chance in this matter at the beginning of the year, she held negotiations with these investors for a month and passed a law that gives expertly oriented production a special customs regime and defined 15 areas for the creation of such zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u11	Thank you. Thank you. Ivan Sidorovich Boki of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please, your performance. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u12	A statement by the Socialist faction. The Supreme Council and the Government of Ukraine are entering a decisive stage in the 2006 work on the State Budget. As a result of close cooperation between Parliament and the government after second reading, there have been constant changes in the draft social orientation law. Consumer expenditure on the tax base and reduced development costs has been increased. Local budgets have been substantially strengthened. The government budget's revenue has increased by 3.4 billion dollars. Of these, 3.2 billion are earmarked for local budgets. While noting the positive trends in the work on the State Budget project for 2006, the Socialist Party faction also draws attention to a number of positions that significantly reduce the quality of the State's main financial instrument. There can be no justification for the government's position on the implementation of the Law on the Social Protection of Children of War, for which, by the way, they voted as deputies before the presidential elections and today's President Yushchenko, and today's Prime Minister Yehanurov, and today's Finance Minister Pinzenik. We, socialists, initiators, and creators of this law, cannot even imagine how we can vote for it at the same time and now, as government officials, irresponsibly oppose its implementation. Meanwhile, the government has agreed to finance only the free passage of citizens of this category by local transportation, which is actually provided for most people of retirement age. At the same time, the government does not want to make the statutory 25 per cent reduction in the cost of utility, gas, electricity, etc., within the average consumption standards, pension increases, life support or government social assistance paid instead of pension, by 30% of the minimum retirement age. Socialists insist on the step-by-step implementation of the "Protection of the Children of War" law, and next year they propose to introduce a 25% reduction in municipal services. Without this requirement, we will not vote for the budget. The socialists consider it foolish and abusive for the victims of the Chernobyl disaster to be the opposite of the government in the 20th year of this terrible relief event, provided for by law. In general, the practice of suspending a series of laws through the State Budget must be condemned. It's hardly appropriate to channel as many as 3 billion into the Virtual Stability Fund, cancelling the financing of the debt for the purchase of government-produced agricultural products for 94-97 years. We are aware that the adoption of the State Budget Act is crucial for the timely adoption of nearly 12,000 local budgets and the effective administration of the State, so we urge everyone, and the government in particular, to correct the deficiencies noted, to work on the budget, to make it a reliable tool, to implement the growth economic agenda, social progress, and the realization of hopes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u13	Viacheslav Koval from the People’s Movement, from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Movement, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, held the First All-Ukrainian Church-Culture Forum “For the Local Ukrainian Orthodox Church” on December 13th of this year. Ukraine’s national movement has always felt that freedom of conscience and religious freedom are one of the most important gains of the young Ukrainian State. The democratic nature of the legal base of Ukraine, which determines the nature of the development of the religious environment and the state-church relations, is universal. She was able to extinguish the fire of interfaith opposition, to change the way society and the state view the church as a spiritual institution and as a social institution. At the current stage, the National Movement of Ukraine believes that public policy in the religious and ecclesiastical sphere needs to rethink the social and cultural role of the church, identify existing problems and define ways and mechanisms for solving them. We remember that under the spiritual direction of the churches, most of the citizens of Ukraine are under the leadership and that minimizing interfaith conflicts and harmonizing the relationship between religions in Ukraine is a major task for both the State and the People’s Movement of Ukraine. For the Movement, there was and remains a pressing problem of the formation of all Orthodox denominations of the single and local church of the expression of the Ukrainian national idea. That is why it is so important today to overcome the division and opposition between Orthodox churches. Because of the political power of each church, the church divides the religious environment and continues to fuel the opposition in society. The National Movement of Ukraine condemns attempts by individual actors to politicize the religious situation in Ukraine by interfering with religious life, destabilizing between church relations, and then engaging religious organizations in direct participation in elections, agitation for a certain political power. We all remember the previous elections when tons of provocative macularism were removed from the temples subordinated to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. When Russian - oriented religious leaders took a direct part not only in electoral action but also in the Separatist anticonstitutional assembly in Severerodonetsk. The problem is that society somehow forgets the manifestations of these brutal agitation technologies. The People’s Movement has given and will be a decisive reprisal to all the national anti - Ukrainian provocations of this kind. The People’s Movement of Ukraine believes that we display the highest cynicism of influence over the electorate in the holy temples. The unity of the churches for Ukraine is the call of the People's Movement of Ukraine to believers of all religions. We will not be deceived by those who violate Christ’s commands who trade in Ukraine, faith, and conscience. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u15	Oleg Grigorovich Belarus of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Please, your performance. Alexander Goodima will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We have embarked on a special stage in the life of our nation -- the national elections to the Supreme Council and the local councils of all levels. The electoral campaign will launch a constitutional reform that we hope will strengthen the real peoples, enhance the effectiveness of the political leadership system, the state management system. The electoral campaign, which is unique in Ukraine's life, marks the transition from a major, mixed to a party-proportional election system. To the Supreme Council and local councils, citizens will for the first time choose patriots, professional politicians capable of protecting the interests of citizens, not business or clans. Political competition in these complex elections is gaining unprecedented tension. Political parties and blocs have already been identified, leaders among numerous parties. Social pressures are on the rise. But the main downside issues remain unresolved: “What will Ukraine be like after the elections? What will result from this election? How can citizens really be guaranteed their constitutional legal right to choose power and influence power? How can we ensure the consistent political structure of society and parliament so that Parliament expresses the will of the people and of every citizen? How can we avoid a political, economic and social crisis, such as during the electoral campaign, and such a crisis is a threat, even after the electoral campaign? How can we form a viable majority in the future parliament, elect a prime minister for the government of national trust? How can we unite Ukraine, east and west?" VII The political party “Fatherland” and the block assembly, the leader of BUT Yulia Timoshenko, answered these questions and offered Ukraine a new ideology and political strategy, which is a strategy of Ukrainian national solidarity. It is the only possible program for building a just, solid society, a welfare for all. We call on all the healthy political forces to consolidation for the sake of.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u17	Alexander Goodima of the Ukrainian People's Party, please. Prepare Valery Konovaluku from “Trust of the People”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished Ukrainians! Gudima, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. A statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party about the exacerbation of Ukrainian-Russian gas relations. In the spring of the oil crisis, the Ukrainian People's Party warned that Russia's next step with regard to Ukraine would be gas and nuclear blackmail: oil, gas and nuclear fuel are painful weights of pressure on Ukraine for the choice that the Ukrainian people made by electing their President Victor Yushchenk for the European path of Ukraine to WTO, NATO and the European Union. Can Ukraine expect the favor of Gazprom or the Kremlin? Maybe if he listens to yesterday's advice from Gazprom Manager Miller and gives Russia part of his gas transport system, tomorrow's oil transport system, and tomorrow's part of his independence. Was it not for Russia's mercy and support in the Kuchma and Yanukovic presidential elections that Russia was informed three years ago for the reverse regime of the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline? The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party has been in favour of moving to world prices for Russian energy for two or three years. The sooner we realize that Ukraine's energy strategy must be driven by energy savings and integration of Ukrainian energy highways into the European Union, the sooner we can overcome Ukraine's energy independence. For 10 years, we are obliged to reduce gas consumption by 75 billion. At least by 55, secure the Ukrainian and European routes to Caspian oil, Ukrainian nuclear fuel for Ukrainian nuclear reactors. At the same time, the UNP faction is in favour of moving to world prices for 2-3 years for the transit of Russian gas, Russian oil and Russian electricity, the transit of Russian goods by rail and by road, the return to Ukraine of the savings of the former Soviet Union Reserve, the cost of land at world prices for the deployment of the Russian Black Sea fleet, radio-location stations, and so on. We are in favour of a civilized process of normalization of Ukrainian-Russian relations, in which the role of the Supreme Council, according to changes to the Constitution, will be extremely important. That is why an important component of the future Ukrainian Parliament should be the Ukrainian power, which will always be the national interests and energy independence of Ukraine. Alex Goodim, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u19	Valerius Konovaluk from the MP's “Trust of the People” group, please. Prepare Michael Kosiwa.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u20	Thank you. Valerius Konovaluk, 62 constituency, Trudova Ukraine, Donetsk Region, “Trust of the People”. Dear colleagues! Dear voters, radio listeners! With the start of the pre-election race, the country is again, as in past elections, trying to get involved in the turbulent electoral process, the next struggle, forgetting the main thing -- the development of the state, the economic stability and the well-being of the average citizen. We are confident that this situation raises concerns and overwhelms understanding of what the future parliament should be like, what the strategy for further development of the country should be for us to look after, what principles should be laid down for the formation of a new coalition. Given the end of the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the MP group “Trust of the People” calls for all political forces, all political factions, national deputies of Ukraine to reflect on the sums of our work. But to provide transparent information that is clear to the electorate about the results of our parliamentary activities. Most of us are working together for the second time in Parliament and defending the interests of our electorate, so we need to go to elections, not with populist statements and promises, as a second time, but to show the people the real things that have been done during our term. But answer the very difficult questions: Why is Ukraine still in such a demeaning state of development today, why pension, medical reform, and reform of the education system are not implemented. I'm sure people's consciousness is changing now. Everyone feels that they are not strangers to other people’s political games, whose thoughts can be ignored. People will approach the elections consciously, knowing that they are not just voting, but choosing their future. Economic policy does not create optimistic expectations for 2006. In recent years it has been influenced by permanent electoral populism. In fact, the rise in social benefits did not have the desired social effect. Nearly 20 billion dollars, aimed at raising wages and payments, were consumed by price increases and inflation. The following year, it is unlikely that GDP will grow by seven percent. There is no adequate increase in investment in the current year. We want to pay attention, however, to the technological crisis that has turned much of Ukraine's territory, especially the Donetsk-Dnieniprostian regions, the ecologically polluted police, the industrially developed areas of Lviv and Ivano-Frankishte into life-threatening areas and the health of the zone. More than 13 million people live in these ecologically polluted areas, working for the benefit of the state under such difficult economic conditions. We ask for the support of Bill 8561 on establishing an environmental supplement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u21	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Kossov from the Reform and Order Party is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Sergey Weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u22	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies_ Two weeks ago, on November 30, 2005, the head of the Reform and Order Party, Sergey Sobolev, read from this rostrum a statement about the situation in Vinnica. In this statement we have addressed, in particular, both the President of Ukraine and the Attorney General, and we have expected that the response to these events, which need immediate response, will be adequate. However, our expectations proved to be futile. So what happened and happened in the city of Winnitz? After the election, after the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, district government administrations were formed and Mr. Dombrowski, the city’s head, became the head of the Winnick State Administration. All right, in such situations, the city manager’s duties are performed by the city’s council secretary and the city’s performance. This is our one-party secretary, Kozak Viktor Anatoliyovich. Immediately after the city head’s release, a new election is scheduled to take place within 30 days. Yet, out of the commotion and head of the district administration, and part of the city’s deputies, the elections in Winnica did not take place until today, but instead there was a brutal cynical, brutal takeover of the cabinet, well, all of them, as it were, signs: seals and everything else in the city council. And the secretary of the city council was removed from the discharge of his legitimate duties, although there is also an appropriate decision of the court that recognizes his legal right to perform these duties. The “Reforms and Orders” faction reiterates its request to the President to ensure the constitutional right of the inhabitants of Winnitz and to oblige the persons concerned to report on the reasons for the violation of the Law. We also once again call on the Attorney General of Ukraine to immediately examine the facts of the violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine by the individual deputies of the City Council and to bring the guilty to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u23	Sergey Slabenko is invited from the “Our Ukraine” faction. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u24	Sergey Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction, 19 constituency, Wallinsk region. Honourable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine. Allow me to introduce you to the parliamentary faction of the People's Union of “Our Ukraine” on ensuring that the Supreme Council swears by the new judges of the Constitutional Court. The People’s Union “Our Ukraine” claims that it is necessary for the Supreme Council to ensure that the new judges of the Constitutional Court make an oath without delay. We fully share the concerns of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine regarding the delay in this process. The deputy faction “Our Ukraine” is convinced that delaying the procedure for bringing judges to office undermines the authority of the Supreme Council, as it testifies to the political nihilism of establishing a constitutional body. This could create a lot of negative political and legal coalitions where political forces interested in destabilizing the situation, especially in elections. Furthermore, we have to express our concern that the failure of the Constitutional Court continues to be a real problem in ensuring the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. The “Our Ukraine” faction calls on the Supreme Council in tight terms to solve this problem and demonstrate to society the constructive work of the legislative branch of power. At the same time, I was moved to turn to the national deputies. These are the draft decrees of the Supreme Council. I'm looking at the content of these draft rulings, and we're taking a new political stand, which is by dragging the Supreme Council's responsibility to order the decision-making of the Constitutional Court judges. For example, it is suggested that consideration of the matter may take place only in agreement with the Conciliation Board of Deputies and factions. At the same time, it is a matter of question or commitment to the draft decrees directed to the President of Ukraine, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, in which the deadline is set for sending documents to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In some cases, the absence and obligation of the committee to examine the possibility of making an oath by these judges to comply with the requirements. At the same time, we see again that only if there is a conclusion that a committee can then bring the matter to the session room. We believe that making an oath is a political act on which the authorities, who have chosen or appointed their own composition of judges, should bring them into the session room and they must take an oath before us. Let's not turn this into a political debate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u25	Peter Simonenko is invited from the faction of the Company of Ukraine. While Peter Mikolaiovich is coming, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues, one minute, to ask respectable colleagues not to spoil the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to say that we had to demonstrate this principle at the time when there were two candidates for the Constitutional Court judges to take an oath. Then, cynically, beyond all law, the rostrum was blocked, and the Supreme Council was not released. Now we have to answer for that. I want to say again, we have to answer for this now. And you don't have to look for culprits in the Supreme Council. You're going to the election, we're going to the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u26	Respectable voters, after making a statement that offended not only the people of Ukraine. President Yushchenko, concerned, confirmed that he had witnessed not only nuclear disintegration but, above all, the moral and moral breakdown of power. You, Mr. Yushchenko, are few that more than 11 million citizens have died as a result of your reforms and your predecessors since 1991. So for American money, you want to turn the whole country into a grave. I would like to appeal to colleagues today to state that the current authority has also prohibited CIS observer missions from participating in the elections. The extent of the problem goes far beyond the diplomatic cause, and it is that, under diplomatic rhetoric, the leadership of Ukraine de facto creates prerequisites for the breakup of relations and the withdrawal of Ukraine from the CIS. Instead of establishing constructive dialogue and relations, propose models and ways of developing and deepening integration processes in the post-Soviet area and, if there are problems, seek and propose ways to address them. The Yushchenko regime, like its predecessors, is trying to discredit this organization artificially. It is clear that, in meeting the requirements of the US administration, they are seeking to join NATO, but they are rapidly pushing for a deterioration of relations with Russia. At the same time, the opinion of citizens is not taken into account without a clear and approved State policy by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Nor should it be excluded that such unilateral, voluntary actions would lead to social protests against citizens who disagreed with such policies. If problems arise, this is an issue for a normal leader to discuss within the CIS Inter-Parliamentary Assembly. For the patriots of the people of Ukraine, this is the subject of collective and constructive dialogue in the executive structures of the CIS. If necessary, new forms and procedures for dealing with contentious issues should be proposed. The occlusion policy binds Ukraine to Russia in such an artificial conflict, and the irresponsibility of Ukrainian politicians' statements on the gas problem, the presence of the Black Sea fleet, the CIS mission, as well as concrete steps to discredit the CIS run counter primarily to the national interests of Ukraine. Respectable voters trade in your country in your eyes, replacing national interests with personal interests. The main objective is this. These concrete steps are to ensure that the elections are not monitored in an objective, comprehensive manner. The regime is once again trying to steal from our citizens the opportunity to freely and legally choose a power that will determine the interests of the people. We, the communists, propose to include in the agenda and to adopt an appropriate regulation, the registration number of which is 8570 – “On the invitation of an SND observer mission as official observers for the elections in Ukraine”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, dissatisfaction with the answer. Oleg Dragnibok, please, all the documents are ready. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u28	Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union Dear colleagues, on July 7th in Ukraine, there is such a computer game called Operation Galicina. Our Ukrainian teenager, when buying this computer game, is actually given instructions, and he is instructed as a Ukrainian teenager to learn to kill whom you would think of as Ukrainians. And after I realized that after the information was received, appropriate parliamentary appeals were made to all law enforcement structures aimed at removing this game from free circulation, with a view to attracting criminal responsibility to those who caused such a game to appear in the market in Ukraine, there was total delay, total ignorance. I would simply, as for the greater effect of understanding, I would like you to listen to the instructions for the computer game "Operation Galicina", which is freely distributed both to today and to Ukraine. Please listen: “2008. In Ukraine, a new political crisis has moved into the Ukrainian capital by columns of supporters of the loser candidate. But it was just a pale shadow of the 2004 Orange Revolution. Ukraine is putting an end to all NATO membership negotiations and will be heading towards further rapprochement with Russia. Our troops in Belarus are ready to close the Polish-Ukrainian border, and the State Duma has made good use of the Russian army abroad. Our troops are on their way to Dniester along the Polish border, facing the frank hostility of the locals, in some cases the civilian people have opened fire on our troops. Clearly, the enemy is well organized, they call themselves the Ukrainian UPA rebel army. Lviv is surrounded by Russian and Ukrainian troops. After two weeks of street fighting, we control almost all of Lviv.” And so on and so forth. No, colleagues, I want to disappoint you, not Major Melnicken, not anything else you can say, but for a Ukrainian teenager today they recommend in a free sale in Ukraine how to kill Ukrainians. And I was most impressed when one of the answers came. Listen! It turns out that it's distributed by one of the Kiev companies that has a license agreement with one of the Moscow firms, and the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine by Intelzarist provided control stamps to mark 20,000 copies of the CD. Then I'd like to ask Mr. Nicolanek. You're giving instructions and permission for Ukrainians to kill their own people? Is that how you raise the future Ukrainian generation? This is unacceptable, society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask everyone who's still speaking, if there's any audio, video, visual technology, for the Supreme Council to decide whether or not she'll listen. Otherwise, everyone will come here with their own TV. I'd ask you not to. Mikola Rudzkowski, please. None. Yuri Solomatin, dissatisfaction with the answer. Prepare Tamara Proscorat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u30	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The noble people of Ukraine! As a national electorate, I express my indignation at the attitude towards the problem of the funds stolen by Lazarusen, as demonstrated by the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. In particular, I have been addressing these bodies with parliamentary questions about the legal basis for the return from the united states of America to Ukraine of the budget stolen by Lazarusen, the amounts there are significant, which are bloody for the Ukrainian people. [[hundreds of millions of dollars]] In the same procedural documents of the U.S. Attorney's Office and the Central Intelligence Agency that I have and have requested, former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko appears as an associate in the machinations of former Prime Minister Pavel Lazarenko. These official documents show that the United States is eager to see Mrs. Timoshenko in its own court. And it turns out that the stolen Ukrainian funds have already been arrested in the United States and can be drawn for the benefit of the American state, I emphasize, for the benefit of the American state, not the Ukrainian state. Ukraine's back! As you can see, however, the orange ministers are all like a light bulb. Mr. Medvedzko wrote in the letter in the morning: The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine uses all necessary means. Here's the whole answer. So I'm asking Attorney General Medvedzk to give a concrete, essentially answer to my request number 1622/5 of September 7, 2005. The former Minister of Justice, Zvaricz, also took place with a write-off. Of course, this minister was without a diploma, so I'm asking the minister with Mr. Head's degree to come to the question patriotically, in fact. I demand that the Minister of Justice of the Head reconsider and essentially respond to my parliamentary request to Minsk at number 1622/4 from September 6, 2005. As a national deputy, a member of the Company of Ukraine, I demand that all state officials act and essentially investigate the case of Lazarenko and his associates, including the leader of the U.S. Attorney's Office with Mrs. Timoshenko's red-hot heart. I demand to return the stolen millions to the Ukrainian budget! I demand that the guilty be punished! Please consider my request to the Attorney-General and the Minister of Justice to answer my previous questions and not only to me, but also to the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine and to all the Ukrainian people! Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u31	Yes, Tamara Proskuratov is invited to the presentation. All the necessary documents have been prepared in response to dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, distinguished Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished teachers! The deputies of our faction were challenged by the MPs, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education, and the Minister of Finance, and the governors, that so far 57 articles of the Education Act have not been implemented. We were told that this money went, that money got, and I'm reading that on October 1st, the subsidy was listed in full. But so far, teachers have shown this to their telegrams, which I've only received in the near future, that the money is not received. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, if I were not a teacher, I would say, “Your local authority is lying! ” “You’re told the truth, the money is gone, it’s money. And why are they not paid?” For example, what a brilliant answer did the teachers in the area of Žitomir say about the fact that they do not return money to teachers because there is no clear mechanism for maintaining taxes, as well as a social insurance fund for temporary loss of employment, and so on. I think if the authorities don't know how to distribute the money that they already have, you know, you only have to leave work here. Dear teachers! I now call those areas where the teachers didn't get that money. This is the village of Yasenyovka in the town of Makeyevka in the Donetsk Region, the White Ukraine in the Lugansk Region and the answer is not paid because there is no tax-maintenance mechanism. The city of Ishmael Odessa District, Lutsk Volin County, Nedrigailovka Sumska District, Irshan School of the Volodarsko-Volinski District of Žitomirsk Region, Korostišov Agrolist number 40 Žitomir district. Dear teachers! I'm also asking you with a request and a reminder and a statement of the fact that the money is, the money is gone, and so ask the authorities to get this money you've earned, because the answers we're going to get show that the money has already been received. You're being told the truth, you're being lied to again by the chosen you, cooked up by the authorities on Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u33	Yes, Your Honor, the speech is over. With regard to proposals, comments, warnings made by representatives of MPs and factions, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Now we have to continue our work. I'd like to ask that we work all the time, because we spent an hour of 35 to make requests, statements, messages. I want to remind you that there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 12 p.m. on the third floor. I ask the authorised representatives, the factions' leaders to be at this meeting, to discuss our painful issues, first of all the approaches to tomorrow's draft Law on Ukraine's State Budget 2006." It's right here on the third floor. I see there's a lot of motive right now. Please sign in. Five minutes of motivation, please write it down. There's a recording for the reasons for our further work. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Catherine Samuel, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. You, Peter Mikolaiovich, right? Can I give you a word? Please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u35	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In my statement, I asked you to make a decision, the draft decision is to invite the SND mission to the elections in Ukraine as official observers. This is the first time. Secondly, it seems to me that today we should first answer those fundamental questions that concern the whole of society, and what we are going to live for tomorrow. And maybe make the right decision -- and send a delegation to the official Supreme Council to hold negotiations at the State and State institutions that have a bearing on the price of gas. Because it is now clear that the gas crisis, organized by today’s regime, is aimed at further destroying our industrial complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u37	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Then there's Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u38	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. On behalf of our deputies, I would like to draw attention to the fact that two issues must necessarily be addressed today. The first is the order of acceptance of an oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court. The discussion was quite active and the positions were crystallized. He deserves the most careful treatment, of course, the bill prepared by Matthew, our colleague. And secondly, there is probably a point that we should come to today and consider changes in the 2005 budget for the use of funds from the sale of Krivoroztali shares. Again, my colleague in the bloc, the People's bloc of Lithuania, Gurov made a rather interesting proposal — Bill 8334-5, in which he proposes to channel some of the funds to address the socio-cultural, environmental problems of the city of Krivorozhya itself. And that's normal, because the Horn of the Curve, unfortunately, was the most affected by this business. And we need to get the money from the sale to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u39	Lilia Grigorovich, please the faction “Our Ukraine”
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u40	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Well, democracy in Chinese and in Chinese, we've seen it in the past presidential elections, so please give the word to the famous diplomat, Hennadia, Josephovich Udovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u41	Please, Hennaday Josephovich Vudovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u42	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna, for this. Dear colleagues, let's stop playing the map submitted for ratification or in a note submitted on the ratification of the charter of languages of national minorities and rare languages. It's given, read the report, it's on the website, it's on the web site of the Council of Europe, it's given, it's given, it's given, and so on and so forth. We're still playing this gallows and in these, I'm sorry to talk about it, but as an anti-president, it's anti-presidential. The second, yes, I, indeed, this charter was ratified.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u43	Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, Faction BUT, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u44	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u45	Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u46	Thank you. I would like to respond on behalf of the faction to the performance of our "uni-Ukrainian soloist" and say that the difference between man and bird is that man is endowed with intelligence and should think what he is saying. It's about that provocation about Julia Timoshenko. I wanted to remind you that there is nowhere to turn. Come to me or I will come to you, and I will give you the ruling of the Supreme Court in an exclusive manner, which says that Julia Timoshenko and others have committed no crime, not even an administrative offense. So you don't have to speculate on this subject today, you know, which has long since given away certain dividends. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u47	Yes, Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u48	Thank you. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. I would like to make a few comments about the statement that came out of the rostrum that characterized the minister of education. I'm not going to comment on what was said there today. I would like to say that we should realize that today the Ministry is more working on the construction of the Ukrainian National School than ever before. It is also about reducing those who will pay for their education, and there are real steps that are being taken today, and all society knows about it. It is about developing the possibilities of publishing books in Ukrainian that have never been done in previous years, and it is today that the Ministry takes into account the potential of all those living in Ukraine and using their own language. So I think we need to figure this out somehow not from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, and this would be more useful to resolve the issue itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u49	Yes, thank you. Unfortunately, time is running out, so let's move on to our next job. A draft decree on the procedure for making an oath to the judge of the Constitutional Court is being announced for consideration. We have three projects here. Vasil Vasilovich, please. Very briefly, I would like to ask that we vote now. Let me inform you about the essence of this question for a few minutes, and then the authors of each project, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u50	Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! You have a draft decision handed down that I have made regarding the order of taking an oath to the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It states that a person appointed to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court takes an oath at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The question of the making of an oath by a person appointed to the seat of a judge of the Constitutional Court is included in the order of the Supreme Council of the day, in agreement with the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups. The Special Committee of the Supreme Council shall examine the materials relating to their compliance with the requirements of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court and shall make appropriate recommendations. That is, a 40-year-old candidate, a senior legal education, an internship of at least 10 years, speaks Ukrainian, lives in Ukraine for at least 40 years. And these materials are then sent for consideration by the Supreme Council. Such a proposal is made by the profile committee not later than 10 days after the date of arrival of the material committee regarding the appointment of the person. The President of Ukraine, the meeting of judges of Ukraine in a 10-day term, I emphasize, from the day that a person is appointed to the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the materials are given to the Supreme Council. A person appointed to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court consists of the text of an oath provided for in the Constitution. After the oath has been taken, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is released from his previous place of employment if the performance of such work or the assumption of his office is incompatible with article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. I think it's very concise and clear and clear. We still have two drafts of Yuri Karmazin's ruling. I think they might report. But it's about making an oath to the authorized, to the President, to other certain officials. With regard to the draft decree, Vladimir Matthews. They're close, they're close. But we did more to improve our draft decision. So please accept it as a basis, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u51	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, please, draft ruling. Dear colleagues, the procedure has been shortened. There's nothing to discuss. Now let's define by vote. We need to move on, so many decisions we have. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, first of all, it is necessary to draw your attention to the fact that an alternative to the present draft decision has been introduced by me for the purpose of establishing, in my view, the pain of the proposed procedure for swearing by the judges of the Constitutional Court in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the main difference between the projects you're proposing is the following: my project, from what my colleague Onopenko has just reported, is the following. If paragraph 6 of draft decision 8562 suggests that a judge of the Constitutional Court is to be dismissed from office only after making an oath, my draft provides paragraph 3 that, and I think you will agree with this, the person appointed to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Court shall swear not later than one month from the date of his appointment to this office for having reached the conclusion of the Committee on the performance of the requirements of section 2 of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And this article says in particular that a professional judge cannot have a representative mandate, embrace any other paid position, do another paid job, and so forth. I think we've all been very satisfied with the fact that over the months we've been constantly in this room, we've been dealing with questions about the compatibility of parliamentary powers with the performance of duties in high government positions by 55 Ukrainian national deputies. You remember how difficult this problem was to solve. So this position should, in my view, be very clearly stated in the decision taken. What I'm offering you. By the way, the project that I'm proposing also takes into account all the right positions that are set out in the draft decree for registration number 6535, which was introduced by colleague Carmazin. Thank you. Please support the draft decision I have proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed in detail several times at the Conciliation Board meeting that we need to adjust this procedure in order to avoid further questions, there is no proper tension. In accordance with the mandate of the Conciliation Board, a project is appropriate by the Committee on Legal Policy. An alternative bill has been introduced, which Valentin Grigorovich Matviev has just reported, and it further details the procedure for the swearing of the judges of the Constitutional Court. The popular deputy Yuri Karmazin has introduced a project that is of a broader nature. It's about taking an oath, including the President of Ukraine, that he's going a little beyond our conversation. But at the same time, I would like to point out that the procedure for swearing by the President of Ukraine is determined by a separate decree. So there is no need for us to accept this document. But since the initiative by the deputy has been discovered, the draft responses we have to consider. In order of order of order, please note, I will put the vote to the vote. The first one will be an official draft by the Legal Policy Committee, the author of the Vasil Vasilovitch Onopenko project. This is Project 8562, so that we don't have any contradictions and contradictions here, I'll put it right away. May I have your attention, please? I will immediately put to the vote for adoption as a whole. I am voting for the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of taking an oath to the Constitutional Court judge, registration number 8562, author of the National Deputy Vasil Onopenko. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. I'd like to make up my mind! For – 124 Let's write it down, 124. The decision is not taken. I'm putting to the vote a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the order of formation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine an oath by the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, registration number 8562-1, to be adopted as a ruling. Please vote. This is Valentina Matthew's project. Please vote. For – 249 It's been decided. I don't see any big differences there, dear colleagues. For 249, the decision is made. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 55, Communists – 56, People's Party – 44, “Our Ukraine” – 6, Block Timoshenko – 0, SPU-25, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, National Block – 18, SDPU(o) – 17, “Trust of the People” – 11, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “Ukrainian” – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 6, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues! We agreed that we would make the right decision with you. But we accepted him, because we didn't all vote, I don't understand. Let us now consider the following questions. I, the honourable colleagues, when voting, said that in order for us to have no differences, we would immediately put on the whole. In general, the draft regulation was voted first and the second was voted in general. Dear colleagues! Please pick up the transcript, I remember what I was saying. Ivan Alexandrovich, you don't have to. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote the agreed proposals that had been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u54	I strongly deny the claim that I am lying to the session room. Come up now, the stenographer, and pick her up. Please check. About what? Three minutes, please sign in. Ivan Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u55	Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u56	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to remind you that under the signature of the acting minister in foreign affairs of Oriska to the Electoral Centre, a letter has been received that he reports that there is no reason for the official invitation of the designated mission, i.e. the mission of the SND States, to observe the parliamentary elections in Ukraine. That is, it is forbidden for representatives of the SND mission to be present in Ukraine during the elections. So we proposed Project 8570 on the invitation of the mission, the Supreme Council's decision, the mission of SND observers as official observers for the 2006 elections. First, invite, as official observers, the election to the councils of all levels in Ukraine in March 2006 a mission of observers from the SND. Second, to assign Lithuania to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine appropriate invitations in accordance with Ukraine’s respective legislation. And the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u58	Calinchuk, please. Vassil Calcutta.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we've already voted, the question solved, the more so in the bill, the more clearly written procedure in Matthew's ruling. For example, a member of the jury should withdraw all other powers just as the national deputy does. So I think we should not discuss this issue further, this is a question that we have already voted on, it is accepted, but we should go on and consider the other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u60	Mikola Odynik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u61	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that when there were comments, yelling from the hall, you somehow didn't respond to the fact that if there was a remark, you couldn't put it all together. You put it all together. It seems that someone is keen to see this decision adopted today never again. Why does this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I would like us to support the President of Ukraine in his proposal. The difference between these two documents is only one, which in the first document is the authorization of the judge of the Constitutional Court after he takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project suggests that it first has to perform all the formalities, place the authority in the previous workplace and then be sworn in. Please tell me it's not done here. Please, Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u63	Please give the floor to National Deputy Onopenek Vasil Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u64	Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u65	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I say what's wrong with the judge. In order for a judge to withdraw his obligations, he would have to go through a qualified commission, through the High Council of Justice, through a committee, and consider it on the Supreme Council. And only a month is given to make an oath. Next. The last position is that you cannot take an oath if there is no one in office. This is already contrary to the law itself. Therefore, it was necessary to be accepted as a basis, and it was indeed possible to make this determination more perfect.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u66	Dear colleagues and Vasil Vasilovich is honorable! You're a committee of legal policy. The law states that an oath is made on condition of the presence of the President, the Prime Minister and the head of the Supreme Court. You want to abolish the law by decree. Is that how it works? I think in this case we need to make changes to the law, and then we need to make a decision. A legal order has been made by law. And, dear colleagues, I beg you, please don't bring politics here. Let us consider tomorrow the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Supreme Council and then the oath of judges. This is my position, I'm telling you about it. All of it. Please. Regarding the offer made by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. The President of Ukraine expressed his position that the President of Ukraine had stated that Ukraine was ready to invite observers from any country or international organization, including the SND, to the parliamentary elections. [[There's a material lying in front of me just by accident.]] I quote the President's direct words: “In application of international law, we are ready to invite as observers people of goodwill from every corner of the world, including the SND.” Well, the question is, do I understand? [[B in m in s a l in]] I've quoted the President's words, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we are under review. We agreed not to take breaks because we spent an hour of 40 minutes taking a break, dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, for us, the President's main position, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues. Well, we're of good faith. I read you the position of President of Ukraine -- what do you want from me?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, let's make a political decision, let's do it this way. Since I quoted the President's position, which is that any organization, any country can participate in the observation, so as not to undermine the Supreme Council, let's now consider inclusion, and let's not look at this issue. Today, there will be a meeting with the President of Ukraine at 3 p.m., and we will find out where we stand. That's how it works.? No warning? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution 8570 on the invitation of a SND observer mission as an official observer in the elections to all levels in Ukraine in March 2006. Please vote. For – 201. By fact, please: “Ukraine” - 55, Communist - 56, National Party - 33, “Our Ukraine” - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 7, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, National Block - 19, SDPU (o) - 17, People's Trust - 4, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, “Ukrainian One” - 1, “Reforms and Order” - 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 8. I'd make a difference, let's have a consultation, let's calm down. And then you'll see. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 1 of the Law on Exports of Black Metals and Wastes is being announced for consideration. Anatoly Seminoga. Ah, Sergey Burjak. I'd like to ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to meet at the appropriate meeting right now, please. Well, that's how we arranged, the honourable colleagues that we worked with today, asked questions and made an hour of 35 hours, 40 hours. Then we will not take breaks in order to consider other legislative acts. The leaders of the MP factions and groups are requested to meet on the third floor to hold an advisory board. The Head of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to go upstairs, the representative of the President in Parliament, and the representative of the Government in Parliament, please also take part in the meeting. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk will continue to preside over our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, please sign up for motive, three minutes. Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u68	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, well, I personally supported this proposal with most of my colleagues. Although, I have to tell you, in principle, it would probably be enough for the President to make the same decision that he's willing to invite anyone who wants to come or who wants to invite someone. That's why I don't see any particular problem. There is the President's opinion that you and I have expressed our point of view. Let's hold consultations, without too much fuss, and vote again. I'm not going to change my position myself. I voted in favour, and I will vote in favour, because I believe that the more representatives in the country, the more calm and normal elections will actually be. So I don't see a particular problem here, and I don't think it's possible to make a problem out of it that doesn't allow the Supreme Council to work any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u69	Lilia Grigorvovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u70	Lila Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear friends! I would like to address those colleagues who block the rostrum and want democracy and even more democracy in our next parliamentary election. I would like to remind them that democracy is first of all a procedure. The President made his proposals, did not support what you asked, only 201 votes in favour. So let's demonstrate this desire for democracy, which should be fixed by observing our election by honourable representatives from the SND, first and foremost, by our conduct in this room. I'd like to release the rostrum and start working, but I didn't support your offer. Let's follow the logic of the majority that didn't support your proposal. It's a democracy. You're going to be democratic here, and we're going to have democratic choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u71	Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u72	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear colleagues, this is probably not even about blocking the rostrum, not how I understand that we, Parliament, have expressed our position of mistrust to observers from SND countries. This is not even the case, although the position of Parliament is quite clear. Expressed. The point is that the laws of the Soviets should now be considered. The Soviet laws, and again the blocking of Ukraine’s becoming a member of the World Trade Organization, begin. I want to remind the people of Ukraine that 148 nations today are members of the World Trade Organization. I want to remind you that since Ukraine is not a member of the WTO, the World Trade Organization, we will lose at least $11 billion every year. It's pensions, it's wages and so on. I have a question for our friends at the Supreme Council. Who do they serve in such a case?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u73	Please, Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u74	Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. I don't think there's a problem at all today, and Parliament shouldn't decide who to ask. Because, as an international practice, all who want to participate have to go to the Central Electoral Commission and get permission to observe elections in Ukraine. That is the practice. And that's why it can be from any country that asks whether it's any group of individuals or any other representative, or whether it's individual people that can do it. And that's not a question. So I don't understand why I came up, even though I voted for the SND to be invited, because they don't make any weather, like all the other observers. They're just expressing their vision. And they vote for people who show their attitude toward political parties who will take part in the electoral issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts. As I understand it, the point is to the next. The closure of the rostrum is not now in connection with the previous vote, although this is the case that has not been included in the agenda of the day's draft decision to invite observers in the next parliamentary elections and local council elections from all interested parties, including from the respective mission of the Commonwealth of Independent States, but it is about the social laws that we are about to adopt with you right now -- and about the removal of metal scrap, and about the export of raw materials. Is there a Burjak? Please, it's Burjak's microphone. Report from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, proposed for consideration in the second reading of the draft Law amending the article of the First Law of Ukraine, “On export duty on waste and scrap of black metals”, which envisions a gradual reduction in the rate of export duty on certain wastes and scrap of black metals from 30 euros to 18 euros per tonne. The reasons for reducing or canceling the export, import, and export duties are these. First, export duties, including metallurgy, do not work with countries of free trade, and this contributes to the development of re-exports. Second, the inside price is about $170, and the export price is $215, indicating the imbalance in the interests of metal collectors and consumers in the internal market. Third, in the first half of this year, metal scrap exports decreased by 29 percent compared to the corresponding 2004 period. And finally, the last. The adoption of this law will allow Ukraine to speed up the negotiation process for Ukraine’s entry into the WTO and remove the quantitative restrictions on exports of metal products. And I'm going to tell you that I did, one amendment came from Matvienkovy Sergy Anatoliyovich, which predicts an increase in the rates of export, import duty from 25 to 35 euros per tonne from 1 January of the following year. At the committee meeting, the proposal was rejected. So I propose to support this bill in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here we have a draft of Matthewnkov's decree on the inadmissibility of this law, but it's not. Yes. One amendment was rejected, once again by the people’s deputy Matvienkova. I therefore put to the vote the draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment to article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals, registration number 8316/P1, the author is the national deputy of Matvienkov. Please vote. For 96. Not accepted. I'll bet on it. By factions, please, by factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 25, Communists – 50, People's Party – 2, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Block Timoshenko, Socialists, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, National Block Lithuania – 1, Social Democrats – 0, “Trust of the People” – 3, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “One Ukraine” – 6, “Reforms and Orders” – 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 5, non-fractional – 1. I put to the vote the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, the Act amending the article of the First Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals, registration number 8316. I'd like to make up my mind. For -153. The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? To the others again. I'm proposing to the committee that the bill be sent back to read again. I'd like to make up my mind. For – 136 The bill was rejected. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law “On Export of Customs to Live Animals and Leather Raw Materials” is being complied with, and the registration number is 8317. Please. Sergei Burjak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! It is proposed to consider in a second reading the draft law on the export of customs to live animals and leather raw materials. The committee received two proposals from Ukrainian national deputies: from Vitaly Mike to a mechanism to reduce the rate of export duty on livestock, that is, the rate is reduced by four percentage points each year to 10 percent. The bill’s first reading reduces the rate by 15 percent each year to 0 percent. The above proposal was rejected by the committee. The second proposal came from Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko about the validity of the law after Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization. In its first reading of the bill, this law takes effect on January 1, 2006. This proposal was taken into account. We considered it logical. So there's a proposal from the committee to support this bill in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u79	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Vitaly Ivanovich Majko, is there a need to argue? Please, the microphone. He's taking it off. The author of the amendment, Myko, withdraws his amendment, so I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee on acceptance in second reading and in general, as a law, to amend the Ukrainian Law on Export Customs to Livestock and Leather Raw Materials, registration number 8317. I'd like to make a statement. For - 168. Not accepted. What's the profile offer? Who is responsible for resending the second reading? I'd like to make a statement. For – 165 The decision is not taken. Overruled. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 0, People's Party – 19, “Our Ukraine” – 31, Block Timoshenko – 26, Socialists – 18, Ukrainian People's Party – 18 People's Block Lithuania – 11, Social Democrats – 0, “Trust of the People” – 4, National Movement – 15, “One Ukraine” – 9, “Reforms and Orders” – 5, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 4, non-fractional – 5. There is a draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax, second reading. [[on transactions in the sale of agricultural products]] Registration number 8089. Reported to the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vitaly Hometicnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we consider a draft Bill No. 8089 completed for the second reading. The bill proposes the introduction of a single reference document, free of charge to the owner of the agricultural product that was produced or produced by the local authorities. And according to the Ukrainian Income Tax Act, benefits are distributed in respect of the payment of income taxes derived from the alienation of the specified product. The committee is working on this bill, taking into account the proposals made by the people’s deputies during its first reading discussion. In particular, it is proposed that the form of help, the term of action, its issuance and application be established by the State Tax Administration in agreement with the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources and generally approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. After considering the bill at its meeting and taking into account the only amendment that came to second reading, the committee invites the Supreme Council to accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in this way, we see that the amendments that have come are taken into account by the profile committee. We have reason to vote on the adoption in the second reading and in general as a law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax of Persons. [[on transactions in the sale of agricultural products]] Registration number 8089. Please vote. For – 110, Not supported. What's the committee's offer? To the others again. I'm betting on sending the bill back to read again. Please vote. To – 184, It's also not supported, it's deflecting. Let us turn to the issue of ratification. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on inland waterway navigation is being complied with. Registration number 0295. First Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Cibenko Vasil Grigorović, please. Please Vasil Grigorovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u82	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on inland waterway navigation, signed in Zagreb on April 16, 2004, will be presented for your consideration. The establishment of an inter-government bilateral agreement with the Republic of Croatia on inland waterway navigation is prompted by the need to establish a contractual legal basis for regulating the relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Croatia in the area of river passenger and freight transport. The agreement defines the arrangements for regulating the relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Croatia in inland waterway navigation. In particular, it is assumed that each contractual party provides the same regime for ships of another contractual party as it provides its vessels with regard to the use of inter-hospital parking, port access and port facilities and equipment for loading and unloading vessels, landings and landings of passengers. The agreement becomes part of national legislation, creates a reliable international legal mechanism for regulating river transport and trade relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Croatia. Acquiring the validity of the agreement will contribute to the inclusion of additional volumes of transfers, further development of inter-State and business relations. The draft law is in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice and is supported by the Supreme Council’s professional committees, such as the European Integration, Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications Committee, and the Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would ask the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine to support the draft ratification of the above-mentioned agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u83	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Have a seat, please. From the profile committee, Oleg Grachev is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on inland waterway navigation was signed in Zagreb on April 16, last year. From Ukraine it was signed by the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine at that time by Grishenko. The establishment of an inter-government bilateral agreement with the Republic of Croatia on inland waterway navigation is prompted by the need to establish a contractual legal basis for regulating the relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Croatia in the area of river passenger and freight transport. Ratification of the agreement will further develop and strengthen mutual cooperation in river transport and trade between Ukraine and the Republic of Croatia on the principles of freedom of international commercial shipping and competition in the transport market. The agreement becomes part of national legislation, creates a reliable international legal mechanism for regulating the relationship between river transport and tourism between Ukraine and the Republic of Croatia and contributes to the revitalization and further development of bilateral inter-State ties. The implementation of the treaty will not require additional material and other costs from the state budget of Ukraine. As has already been said, the main scientific and expert office, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, on European Integration issues, supports the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that it be accepted. Our committee considered the bill and approved its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u85	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on inland waterway navigation, registration number 0295. Please mobilize, we vote. For – 247 Thank you. The law is passed. The deal's ratified. There is a bill on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access to defence. Registration number 0297. Reported by the deputy head of the Security Service, Belov Alexander Fedorovich. You don't? Please, from the Committee of Players, Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u86	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access in the field of defence was discussed at the committee meeting and recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a memo signed in London on September 6th last year by the Secretary of Defense then Marchuk. Acquiring the validity of the terms of the memorandum will facilitate the creation of legal rules for the exchange of secret military and political information, where necessary, within the framework of individual contracts and contracts. The implementation of the memorandum will allow for adequate State control over compliance with State-by-State legislation in the secret information exchange process. The memorandum does not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine; its implementation does not require the adoption of new laws or amendments to the current legislation of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management and the National Security and Defence Committee support the ratification of the memorandum. Our committee, too, I've talked about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u87	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, we'll vote, we'll determine. I'm voting on the draft law. We'll figure it out. I am voting on the draft law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the exchange and mutual protection of information with limited access in the field of defence, registration number 0297. Please vote. For – 188 We didn't make it. Who's in charge of coming back? Please vote. For – 194 We're not back. Let them work on the profile committees. The factions? Please, by the factions. "Regions of Ukraine" – 0, Communists – 0, People's Party – 24, "Our Ukraine" – 33, Block Timoshenko – 21, Socialists – 23, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, National Block Lithuania – 18, Social Democrats – 0, "Trust of the People" – 12, People's Movement – 14, "One Ukraine" – 12, "Reforms and Orders" – 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 4, non-fractional – 6. [[United]] The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on free trade since 29 December 1994 is being complied with. Registration number 0306. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Economy, Marzny Andriy Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. With a view to liberalising trade relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Uzbekistan on 25 June 2004, the Protocol on Change and Supplements to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on Free Trade was signed on 29 December 1994. The ratification of the protocol will allow the establishment of a free trade zone in bilateral relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Uzbekistan by cancelling the Free Trade Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on free trade since 29 December 1994. The adoption of the bill will constitute an essential and necessary component of the development of bilateral relations on a stable and long - term basis between the two parties. The tasks of this protocol are to facilitate the liberalisation of mutual trade, the expansion of the mutually beneficial trade regime, the provision of a level playing field for fair competition in the field of trade. The specified protocol reinforces the intention of the parties to the agreement in the interaction and establishment of a free trade zone without exclusions and restrictions, as well as the promotion of commercial and economic policies in the field of industry, agriculture, the abolition of duties, taxes and congregations that have equivalent action and quantitative restrictions on mutual trade. The specified bill was drafted by the Ministry of Economics, agreed without notice by all departments involved, departments. The adoption of the law will ensure the validity and make it possible to implement the provisions of the said Protocol, contribute to the development and strengthening of bilateral trade and economic relations, to the strengthening of cooperation between contractual parties and to the expansion of the circulation of goods between Ukraine and the Republic of Uzbekistan. Please support the prescribed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u89	Thank you. Andrew Viktorovich. Why did we wait 11 years for ratification?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u90	Well, the point is that the free trade agreement was signed in 94 years, and in 97 years before the agreement, the Protocol on the Elimination of Free Trade and within the framework of the concept was signed, within the framework of the SND on the development of the free trade zone, a protocol on the elimination of removals, which was signed only last summer in 2004. So a year went by for ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u91	Right. Thank you. Have a seat. First Deputy Head of the Committee in Foreign Affairs, Grachev Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u92	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Fellows, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft law on ratification of the protocol “On amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on Free Trade” of December 29, 94”, which was signed on June 25, last year by the Prime Minister of Ukraine at the time. The purpose of the law is to create legal grounds for further strengthening and developing an equitable and mutually beneficial trade and economic relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Uzbekistan, to give them a long-term and permanent character, to make effective use of the economic and scientific and technical potential of the two States and to increase the well-being of their peoples. The implementation of Ukraine’s proposed law does not require additional, material, and other expenses. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment support the adoption of the law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided to recommend the bill before the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts it. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u93	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we vote? Puts to the vote the adoption of the Act ratifying the Amending Protocol and the additions to the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on free trade since 29 December 1994.” Registration number is 0306. Please vote. To 261. The law is passed. The treaty has been ratified. Thank you. Let us go to the section on returning to consideration of previously unsupported issues. I am voting on who to return to the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Command of the United NATO Armed Forces on Transformation and the Supreme Commander of the United NATO Armed Forces in Europe on the use of Ukraine's strategic transport aviation in NATO operations and training.” Registration number is 0296. I'd like to make up my mind. For – 185 We're not back. According to factions: “Regions of Ukraine” – 3, Communists – 1, People's Party – 32, “Our Ukraine” – 28, Block Timoshenko – 18, Socialists – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 17, National Block Lithuania – 8, SDPU(o), – 0, “Trust of the People” – 4, National Movement - 16, “Dina Ukraine” – 12, “Reforms and Orders” – 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 7, Postfraction – 7. I am voting for the return to the consideration of the draft Law on the ratification of the framework agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, registration number 0307. Please vote. To – 137. We're not back. Not the place that Professor Cherniak says. Let us go to the chapter for inclusion in the agenda and decision - making. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the tax base, registration numbers 8373, 8373-1. Please vote. For - 129. Dear colleagues! I'll explain. Here's the thing. We agreed to move away from the incorporation into the State Budget Act for the corresponding year, including 2006, the exclusion or inclusion of additional laws, because we often write in the State Budget: to make changes to such laws and a whole set of laws, about 50 or 60 laws to suspend the action. [[on taxation]] So the final Conciliation Council has agreed that let's do this, we will be guided by the rules of the Rules and the Budget Code, so that the State Budget Act does not modify, amend or abolish other laws, but do this separately. That is why it is suggested that we consider these bills outside the State Budget Act today. So with this explanation, who is responsible for coming back to the consideration of the matter? For – 169 We didn't get the required number of votes. Let's do some more consultations. And I put them both in. Both of them, the first and the second, for inclusion in the order of the day, they were treated immediately. If we talked about it, we'd talk about it separately. There are people. When the laws are upheld, people are, don’t worry. Don't worry. When supported, you see 270 votes. So, dear fellows, we still have a whole bunch of laws to work with. The factions? Please, in factions: "Ukraine's Regions" – 0, Communists – 0, People's Party – 31, "Our Ukraine" – 25, Block Timoshenko – 20, Socialists – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, National Block Lithuania – 6, Social Democrats – 0, "Trust of the People" – 11, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, "One Ukraine" – 12, "Reforms and Orders" – 10, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 9, non-fractional – 4. Let's do some more consultations and see. Should we turn around and put it on? I repeat, they're different, but they're alternative, they're meant to be included in the agenda. Turn around? Let me put it separately. Let me put it. Who, in order to include in the agenda the bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the tax base, registration number 8373, has been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. For – 135. Not turned on. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill No. 8373-1 on amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving the tax base]] The drafters are Homutinnik and Burjak. For 103. At the request of Vitali Homutinika, we've conducted a rating vote, so let's work out another agreement. to amend the Taxation Act, because on this basis it is necessary to build the State Budget Act. We need to put in the agenda and consider a whole series of laws to amend the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget. [[on the use of the money from the sale of the shares of Crimsonstalls]] Registration numbers 8234 8234-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. I'll put it to a vote. 8334. 8334! I am voting for the inclusion of these bills in the agenda. Please be supportive. We're voting friendlyly. For – 197 The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 7, Communists - 55, People's Party - 29, "Our Ukraine" - 0, Block of Timoshenko - 23, Socialists - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, National Block of Lithuania - 14, Social Democrats - 19, "Trust of the People" - 9, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, "One Ukraine" - 7, "Reforms and Orders" - 0, Industrial and Business Party - 6, "Afterfractional" - 4. [[United]] Who, in order to return to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily laws amending the Law on the 2005 State Budget, please vote. [[on the use of money from the sale of “Criminal” shares]] To -258. We're back. In order to include in the agenda the amendments to the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget, registration numbers: 8334, 8334-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 please vote. For 262. Included in the agenda. Let's take a look. The results of the vote are the answer to the question of who says the session should be closed. If there is a wish, then. So let's go over these projects. Bill No. 8334 will be reported by national deputy Shufrich Nestor. Prepare the Voyage of Volodymyr. Please. Short procedure: three minutes
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u94	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear fellow countrymen! You know, today is different with the process of reprivatization of the country as a whole and the “Criminal” in particular. But what happened happened. The Krivorojstal would have returned to the people of Ukraine, then something unexpected happened, the Krivorojstal sold out and clearly the people of Ukraine were no longer involved. We have great respect for all peoples of the world, including the peoples of India. But, of course, we hoped that, after a rather questionable return, the "Criminals" would still come true, at least some of what was said at Maidan and the "Criminal" would remain with the Ukrainian people. It has passed it on to others, even to friendly countries and peoples living in the territories of those countries. But what are we witnessing today? Today we received about 24 billion dollars. Thus, if it is the money of the people, to my firm conviction, they must be devoted to the people of Ukraine. I propose in the bill that money be transferred to Sberbank to pay off the stockholdings. So what does today's "orange" power and so-called government do? Today they say that seven billion should close this year's budget deficit, and the rest of the money, minus what should be returned to previous owners, should be allocated to offset the budget deficit next year. What will this result in for the people of Ukraine? He'll get his debts next year. Gentlemen, if you're broke, admit it and don't take what you can't do. The property from the hammer is sold in two cases: when the client has died or when he has failed. You've become bankrupt, you've taken people, you've chosen people, you've taken the last of them. We had a unique situation, a unique chance of reducing the public debt to our own people by 20%. Instead, you're trashing national property, you're preparing Ukraine to dump European and world nuclear wastes. You brought us the avian flu, you brought us the abdominal typhoid. The Minister, who is responsible for this, says that he has taken up toilets in his ministry. That's all you can do. Give the money to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u95	Yes, please, Bill 8334-1, reports Wojsz Vladimir. You don't? Then, please, next Bill 8334-2, reports Sergey Sass. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u96	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. National Deputy Sas, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! It is clear that the coming of funds from the privatisation of VAT “Crioristal” are not provided for in Ukraine's 2005 State Budget Act, i.e. they are not planned. So we are convinced that these funds need to be directed towards addressing the state's pressing social problems. Once again, we should not talk about the importance of the problem of the need to return savings. There are many questions and appeals from our constituents and a huge number of drafts on this issue that each session is initiated by the Ukrainian National Deputies. If we continue to resolve this issue at the same rate, there are now more than 120 billion dollars that have not been returned to our citizens, and at this rate it takes more than 200 years to do so. In view of this, we propose to direct 21.2 billion dollars to compensate citizens for the loss of money savings and 3 billion dollars to cover the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for pension payments. In doing so, we suggest that compensation be made in proportion to the amount of each investor's contribution. In our view, it would be fair for those who have spent their entire lives spending money on old age. In order for people to receive these funds in the near future, we propose that the government and Treasury be obliged to count the stated funds of the Ukrainian Savings Fund and the Ukrainian Pension Fund by December 25, this year. And another important aspect. Refunds to the previous owner, the buyer of Krivoriztali. We deliberately failed to include such a return in our project because we are convinced that these funds cannot be recovered until the criminal investigation of the circumstances of the sale of the combination at a reduced cost is completed. Because if it turns out that, in the process of sales and further economic and financial activity of the combination until its return to state ownership, there have been gross violations of current legislation, the damage to the state must be compensated. We believe that the result of our proposals will be a substantial improvement in the material condition of our fellow citizens, most of whom are pensioners. In addition, part of the funds will be returned to the State Budget. The adoption of the law will ensure that the funds indicated are not spoiled or embezzled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u97	Thank you, sit down, please. Next bill 8334-3. Klitchenko Igor reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u98	Igor Klitchenko, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear MPs, dear friends. The government that we have in the state right now, and I think it's gone, it spits at us in every case that's possible. Today it's a matter of great importance -- there's no government. They're dealing with some kind of question, they need to get to NATO, somewhere else. They spit on us when we made two decisions not to sell Krivoriztal, three days later the question was solved: we are not here. We need to be so specific about the government laws that they today make, as they apply to our parliamentary laws. And that's why it's more specific now. Yes, indeed, we will not be able to cover the savings with one sum, and we may still have to overcome the veto of the President, which will impose on this law, which we will certainly adopt today, but our proposal will. We've decided to raise pensioners, the Pension Fund lacks 2 billion 800 million of these funds. We need to give them that money right now so that our pensioners, our parents, our family don't look at us, sorry, like idiots. Second, today we need to help a destroyed, destroyed village. As the orange village has already destroyed, it has not been possible to destroy even all previous authorities, who have also made some efforts since the year 17. So it takes 2 billion dollars, I think, to leave in order to save the village and prepare it for the spring, and I'll be there, and I'll see who's there, and, Minagropolitics, if we can manage that, 2 billion. The rest of the money must be spent on saving the citizens. And the last. Don’t give money to people who have already paid for this factory, let alone the price they wanted. That's not fair. It's like borrowing money from a neighbor, then never giving it away. So, first of all, you have to give it to the former owners, and the rest of the money is divided as I suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u99	Thank you. Bill 8334-4, Vladimir Zubanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill just predicted the return of money to those owners who bought it in 2004. It's already been removed, it's done, the money's returned, so I'm proposing that this issue be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u101	That is, in view of the fact that the money returned to the bill, we did not catch up with the government. That's why we won't vote him. I see. Bill number 8334-5, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u102	Gurov, Krivbass. Dear colleagues! Respectable poachers, who I am sure are now listening very attentively, are now faced with virtually the fate, at least in part with that caravan called the Crimsonstal. Well, what I want to tell you. Many laws that have passed out how to share the money that has been received from privatization. I think all these laws have the right to life, all without exception, equally or more. But my law is slightly different from the rest. One thing I want to say is that "Criminal" is not just a lot of quality steel, it's not just iron, it's not just rolling, it's people. And the fact that Krivoroztal, as a flagman, was considered to be both positive and financial in terms of both the budget and, in general, the wages of the smugglers of Krivorostali. But there is also a negative part, i.e. it breathes the whole city with neither air nor oxygen, and a heated mixture, which is from “Koksohima”, from the explosions at “Incagoka”A, from the domain furnaces, from the marten furnaces. So naturally my constituents say, "Yes, those who work for the Crimsons get some money for it, and perhaps a little more. But what do we suffer for all the others we breathe of this abomination?" - and I want to say, it is without exaggeration. You will see, in principle, what comes from such work. We, from the Horn of Krivo, in 10 years, have the highest rate of tuberculosis, the highest percentage of oncosa, and especially in recent years, is the sharp increase in child mortality. That's why I'm offering you 1 percent, you'll understand, out of 5 billion workers and residents of Krivbass ask, not just merciful, but humanly believe that they've probably earned all their life to put new equipment in hospitals, which could be children to make sports grounds. In short, we need to raise this question in Krivbass, because they are very hopeful about our solution. There is a positive decision, the only one for this bill of the budget committee that requests its adoption both on first reading and in full. Thank you for your attention, I hope you'll be able to make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u103	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill number 8334-6, Gabrieluk Vasil. None. Dear colleagues! Here are the following three bills that apply to the same subject, and they'll practically repeat previous projects. So let's put them in the agenda right now and we'll talk about all ten of them. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues! We have three further draft laws in this section aimed at channelling funds from the reprivatisation of the KLA KIMK “Crioristal” to return citizens' savings, registration numbers 8287, 8287-1, -2. Please include them in the agenda, now we'll listen to the information, we'll discuss all ten of them, and we'll identify ourselves. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda, we vote. For – 137 Dear colleagues, now, let's move on. I repeat, they're complementing the same projects -- projects implemented by a group of people's deputies about the return of labour savings. One of the projects says that a certain amount of these funds should be allocated to finance youth construction and so on. So let's include, let's talk about, and then by voting, we're already going to take down these questions, and today, we're going to vote for each other. Which we're going to support, we're going to support. Let's put that in the agenda so they don't hang out with us. Please vote. Vote. We vote, it's a day-to-day inclusion. And then we'll talk about it and figure it out. For – 147 Not included. By factions, please: “Ukraine’s regions” – 9, Communists – 52, People’s Party – 28, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 2, Socialists – 25, Ukrainian People’s Party – 0, National Block Lithuania – 17, Social Democrats – 1, “Trust of the People” – 4, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “Ukrainian” – 5, “Reforms and Orders” – 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, non-fractional – 3. Well, there's no big deal that we didn't include, because the previous ones that we're discussing are these proposals, except for youth construction. Then, I think, if we take something, we can make these proposals and look at them in the second reading. Yes, from the profile committee, it is meant by the Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Budget Committee. But you know that there's a meeting of the Conciliation Council going on right now, and I would like to ask my colleagues not to attack the government very much, because right now the entire composition of the government at the head of the Prime Minister is also on the Conciliation Council, where they're looking at problems related to the 2006 State Budget. So let's be understanding about this. Yeah, then let's move on to the discussion. Please, Taran Victor. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Well, the question of the return of savings and the channelling of the funds of the Creatures to the return of savings is clearly to be decided. I want to say how much time will allow me that the Supreme Council has always taken a consistent position on the return of savings. As long as Kuchma was President of the 12 Bills, the Supreme Council adopted it, and he vetoed all 12 Kuchma. But the Supreme Council consistently adopts this issue. This issue has consistently stood up and this is what I say to Ukrainian citizens. What I'm saying is that this is where the National Deputy Sass said that if they were to return at the rate they're returning today, it would take more than 300 years. And here's the "Crowristal." “Criminal” is the only unique opportunity to make a breakthrough in this matter. Because even today 50 dollars are given, the same 50 dollars are given each year to investors, but people are good, even those 50 dollars are already being eaten by inflation. I mean, they're not the 50 bracelets they used to be. And when we look at the budget today, we're back on the same 600 million dollars that can't solve this problem. And that's the impression, here you said correctly, that the Honorable Colleagues have been resold, but I think it's already been translated into their own accounts. It has already been privatized in its own accounts and the only thing that people have not noticed. People did not notice how it was redistributed in the pockets, how it was reselled in the pockets and is what it is. And so today the Supreme Council has a unique opportunity, regardless of political views, regardless of factions, groups, to stand firm again. I want to say that the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and your factions as well, but only our faction has passed the bill of Turchinova, Sasa, Belarus, dying of the great regret of Michael Pavlovsky, your humble servant. We've all introduced laws, and to the honor of the Supreme Council, they've all been passed here, and they've been supported by the Supreme Council. But we will continue to be consistent. We just don't have another way today. Today I would call for absolute solidarity, I would urge that today. So that we can be clear in this position, even if it's a bill of some kind. In the end, you could even bring them together, separate some positive moments from a national MP. But we simply do not have the right to depart from this room today without taking a clear and firm stand on this matter. At least our position, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, was here and will be firm: people have to return everything, it's a moral debt of the state. And if we want to declare ourselves a state of law, we have to do it. I don't want to agitate you, you're the one who did this. But we will stand to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u105	Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I'd like a rhetorical question to offer to all of us. Return savings to all who have a savings book? Even for the two and a half thousand millionaires present in Ukraine? Even for the few citizens who have already made their way to the so-called middle class and have an annual income of over 50,000 dollars a year? I urge you: let's take care of, first of all, the disadvantaged, for example, the disabled of the Great Motherland, the black people, and so on -- who have been in line for years on a car. Give everyone the car right away. The other one. To the residents: to the disabled of the Great Motherland, to the Chernobylites, to the first category, who, on the basis of these incomes from the housing budget, are now being built under the Chernobyl laws and the Chernobyl programs, will be waiting for a hundred years for this housing, to give to such people, to the population immediately, to buy and pay! I'm about to give up some of the money to improve the environmental situation in the Crevice Basin. Not everyone knows what this term is: “chemical equivalent to x-ray”. Scientists working on environmental safety know about this. Yes, by the number of these chemical equivalent x-rays, in this region 50 to 100 times more of a load than, even, in the Chernobyl area that we're begging for every day from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Finally, help those who are already on the brink of life and who need help from the State and from our society. Even those who enter into life. That's why I'm an ardent supporter of the fact that some of the money from the sale of the “Criminals” we've focused on lending under a small percentage, or at all without a percentage of housing for young families - the future of our Ukraine. So my conclusion is to direct the money to those who have fallen into Ukraine's budget, first of all. To support the needy, no one else but this source will be able to help. Second, to help young people get into life, even with their own apartment, and to work for our state. And thirdly, to channel some of the money to improve the environmental situation in the Crevice Basin, which is even more terrible, I assure you than in Chernobyl. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u107	Basil Nadrag. Get ready, Smianenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u108	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Because of the lack of time, let me say this in detail. First, I would like to draw your attention to Bill No. 834-5, which is sponsored by my colleague in the Lithuanian People's bloc, Gurov Vadim Nikolaevich. I would like to say that the author himself worked for 35 years on the "Criminalists". And he might say that the company gave him a trip. But he also spent all these years in the city of Curve Horn. So who knows the problem like he does? And I think it's perfectly normal in this situation to make 1%, I emphasize 1%. Not 5, not 10, not 20 per cent to give to the inhabitants of the Horn of Curves so that they can at least partially solve their social and welfare problems. Why? Because there were numbers here, and yet I remind them, they're pretty cruel. In 10 years, the rate of death among the population increased from 14.7 per 1,000 people to 17.1 more than that in the first half of this year, it increased to 18.8. A more horrendous figure: the average infant mortality rate in the region is 15-25 per cent higher than the national average. That's why what Vadim Nikolaevich Gurov is offering, and this is where the entire faction of the Lithuanian People's bloc, this one percent, it's not going to save our country, it's not going to make everyone living in the country happy, but it can really help the specific inhabitants of the Horn of Curve. Therefore, I appeal to all colleagues present in this room: my respected, independent of our political sympathy, regardless of what we want to achieve in March 2006 or in life at all, I think that by addressing the issue of allocation, I stress that one percent of the funds received for privatizing the “Criminal” package will help a particular territory, we will help the Horn of Crimson – the city of duty, the city which, by creating wealth, has not received much in return. Therefore, I appeal to you once again on behalf of the faction of the People's Block of Lithuania, and on behalf of the author, Gurov Vadim Nikolaevich, support. We're going to help people, and that's probably the main purpose of us as members of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u109	Yes, Igor Smianenko, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u110	Igor Smyyanenko, 33rd constituency, the town of Krivo Rog, the MP group “Trust of the People”. I am very grateful to the previous speaker, his colleague Vassili Nadragha, who very well addressed the problem. So I also want to touch on the same subject a little bit. Since the mid-1990s, the city of Krivo Rog has been placing enormous funds in all levels of budgets. It is not only “Crivarostali”, but also “Cravbas” and “The Drought of the Balkans”. All this time, a city with a population of seven hundred and thousands is taking over all the negative industrial activities of these giants. Emissions into the atmosphere of 300,000 tons of pollutants per year, more than 40 million tons of waste, and in addition, discharges, airwaves, changes in the earth's surface as a result of mass explosions in careers. Earth's surface failures, floods, excessive air pollution. The negative impact is reflected in the destruction of houses, the passage of land on in situ sites, the constant upheaval of water-supply networks, and the violation of the integrity of roads. In addition to environmental problems, the city receives nothing. The continued underfunding of urban programmes has led to stagnation in addressing acute social, environmental and other issues. The territorial community of the city, which works mainly in the country's budget-based enterprises, has already become involved in addressing priority urban problems in a secure environment and health. The Horn curve is one of the most unfavourable of cities. The level of cancer and tuberculosis is constantly higher than that of the country. Thus, the rate of tuberculosis in the first half of 2005 was 57.4 per 100,000 population, and the rate of tuberculosis deaths increased 1.4 times. Cancer mortality has doubled. The developmental deviations among newborns, which were 46 per 10,000 in 2004, are of particular concern. In the past three years, child mortality has also been consistently higher than 15-25 per cent in the field and the State. It would therefore be appropriate to allocate the resources derived from the sale of the Krivorozha package to the implementation of the following programmes. Capital repairs of residential buildings, modernization of urban utilities, gasification of remote towns, restoration of destroyed water networks and road painting. The “Trust of the People” Group calls upon all deputies to support the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act, registration number 8334-5, as elaborated on second reading. In particular, assuming that one per cent of the sale of the Krivoroztskawa 242 million greven shares will not be recovered at the end of the fiscal year from the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u111	Thank you. Thank you. Yes, the discussion is over. We'll vote. Dear colleagues, this is where the drafters of the bill were perfectly fair, and there's a whole bunch of them. One of the bills has become obsolete as we have considered it, since the Cabinet of Ministers or the State Property Fund has fulfilled this obligation or obligation, or has committed a debt, as it should be called, and the rest will be voted on. The only, indeed, everyone realizes that this greatest giant of our industry has been created by the hands of hundreds, perhaps millions of working hands, of the people of the whole state and not only of our present state, but also of those nations that have entered and formed in the territory of the former Soviet Union. And that's why, I think it's perfectly fair that the drafters ask the question. What was created by the people, let us at least return some of them. We're going to get the savings back, because if they go back at that rate, there are different forecasts, but at least 150 to 200 years will come back. Of course, they will no longer return to anyone for that term. It is fair to say that those who present the bill participated in the discussion that the people of the city of the Horn themselves should be given their dues, because the ecological situation, what this combination created, on the one hand, was very good for them, but, at the same time, it took away a great deal of health and everything else. So let us approach these decisions wisely and with balance. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law on amending the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget for Ukraine on the use of the money from the sale of the Croatstally shares. Registration number is 8334. I'm going to call the project authors: the author of the project Nestor Schufrich. The court is called upon to reimburse these expenses for the return of citizens’ savings. Please vote. For 204. Not accepted. According to factions: “Regions of Ukraine” – 39, Communists – 50, People's Party – 24, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block of Timoshenko – 14, Socialist Party – 22, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, National Block of Lithuania – 18, Social Democrats – 16, “Trust of the People” – 5, People's Movement – 1, “One Ukraine” – 9, “Reforms and Orders”, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, non-fractional – 6. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act. The registration number is 8334-1, the author of the bill is the national deputy Vojsz and others. Also, part of the funds will be directed to repay the debt, part of the building, and so on for the military. Please vote. For - 176. Not accepted. It is based on the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2005. Registration number: 8334-2, authors: Sas, Hubski, Kuzmenko, Taran. [[Terra]] The essence of the bill is to have all the funds in the amount of 24 billion dollars directed at paying off the State’s debt for lost cash savings. Please vote. For – 208 Not accepted. Puts the vote on acceptance as a basis. It's clear, wait, let's go all the way, we'll consult there. The draft Act amending the Law on the 2005 State Budget is the subject of the vote. Adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 8334-3 of the People's Deputies of Kalinick. It's all about improving the deficit of the Pension Fund, the material reserve, and so on. [[$2,800 billion]] Please vote. To - 150. Not accepted. The bill, as we've agreed, under number 8334-4, the author of which was Zubanov, has already been implemented. So we don't vote him. The Act on Amendments to the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine, registration number 8334-5, by Vadim Gurov. I, the only one here, my dear colleagues, want to inform. There's a substitute for this 1 percent 0.7 percent to send to the Curve Rigg, 0.3 percent to send to the needs of the Dnipropetrov region. Please vote. We have a friendly vote. For 270. The law is passed. The factions, please. Come on. Come back, come back. If you don't have the strength, come back, Catherine Seed, come back! "Regions of Ukraine" – 43, Communists – 55, People's Party – 41, "Our Ukraine" – 16, Block Timoshenko – 19, Socialists – 25, People's Party – 4, People's Block Lithuania – 16, Social Democrats – 7, "Trust of the People" – 13, National Movement – 1, "One Ukraine" – 6, "Reforms and Order" – 6, Industrial and Business Party – 9, non-fractional – 9. Dear colleagues, the committee I've been looking at, I need to inform you about the committee's decision because there was no reporter. I said, in view of the fact that they are now considering the problems of the State Budget for the following year. From all of this series of bills, which he was considering, he was the only one who supported the Gurov bill and suggested that it be adopted as a law as a whole. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law of the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine, registration number 8334-5 of the national deputy Gurov in exchange. So 0.7 to the Curved Horn and 0.3 to the Dnipropetrov region. Please vote. For – 272 The law is passed. It is based on the adoption vote in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the 2005 State Budget, registration number 8334-6, the author of the Bill by the national deputy Gabrieluk. There are five billion subsidies for local budgets, the rest for the return of employment savings. Please vote. Vote. For - 159 Not supported. Dear colleagues, we have adopted one as a law from this series of laws, and if we step out of the rating vote, most of the same bills were passed by Bill 8334-2, he won 208 votes. Then, with your permission, I will re-vote the adoption vote as a basis for the first reading of this bill. Project number 8334-2. Please vote. To 221. We have to work. Dear colleagues, now, now. All right, all right, I'll vote one more. 208 I got 221. The law. 204 insist. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State Budget 2005. Registration number 8334, by Schufrich. Please vote. To – 177. You haven't confirmed your 204 rating, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, one more. I ask you once again, after we have considered seven laws, we have not considered three laws, the authors of which are Stephens, Filindash and Rudzkowski. Let's go back to putting them into the agenda. Who is in favour of going back to include these bills concerning the distribution of contributions received from the privatisation of the “Cruvorostals” for certain purposes, including youth building, please vote. For – 147. Well, the third time it's gone, unfortunately. So when we looked at a whole series of bills, we didn't include some of the 10 bills, unfortunately, we voted a part. Are you still insisting? Well, 221 come on. Who's to go back to the bill of 8334-2, please vote. For - 174. All right, I'm sorry. It's going to be endless, and you see. Nestor Ivanovich, instead of 177 you get even less. Do you need it? Let us turn to the issue “In summary procedure”. Yeah, they're asking the authors to move, we were supposed to have two bills, and the consultations are still going on. So we're now looking at another chapter for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. [[on financing support for tourism development in Ukraine]] Registration number 8231. Please vote. Let's take care of tourism. For 120. A bike microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, this bill is in line with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, he has received a positive exclusion from the Committee on Budgets, our committee is talking about the fact that the Ministry of Culture and Tourism does not use the money that should be used for cinematography. And tourism was reduced by 30 million after the merger of two ministries. So, well, the question is already agreed with everyone, let's vote and, really, this money is going to go away, the money is going to go down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u113	Yes, the honourable colleagues who, in order to return to the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Change in the 2005 State Budget and the redistribution of funds within one Ministry, which is in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, please support. Vote. To 138. According to factions: “Ukraine” - 10, Communist - 54, People's Party - 19, Our Ukraine - 2, Block Timoshenko - 7, Socialists - 17, Ukrainian People's Party - 4, People's Block - 0, Social Democrats - 10, People's Trust, National Movement - Zero, One Ukraine - 3, Reforms and Order - 0, Industrial and Business Party - 9, Non-fractional - 3. It is necessary to include in the agenda and to take a decision today: the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure a case-by-case appeal against the court. Registration number 8497. Please vote. We have a friendly vote, there is no politics here anymore. For – 138 The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 17, Communists – 53, People's Party – 11, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Block of Timoshenko – 14, Socialists – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, People's bloc – 6, Social Democratic Party – 0, “Trust of the People” – 0, People's Movement of Ukraine – 1, “One Ukraine” – 6, “Reforms and Orders” – 4, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 3, non-fractional – 2. [[united]] Dear colleagues, I'll explain again what this is about. The point is that today more than 43,000 pending civil cases and less than 5,000 case-related cases have been brought before the Supreme Court of Ukraine since September 1st according to the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. I mean, almost 50,000 cases. Of course, the Supreme Court, its chamber, will not consider these matters, and those who look forward to an appeal await that hope. And the author of the project, Onopenko, suggests that, due to the fact that there are so many temporary cases, it is only one year before the appeals courts, but not in the courts where they have been considered, as it were, but in other areas that there are no suspicions. Well, let's unload the Supreme Court. This is a bill that is absolutely necessary. I am referring to the inclusion in the agenda of a daily law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that the court's ruling is on a case-by-case basis. Let's help those 50,000 people who are waiting for a fair verdict. Please vote. Vote, Your Honor, 50,000 cases. And they may be followed by more than 50,000 people. For – 141 So let's move on to the simplified procedure. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being complied with. [[on the protection of personal rights and freedoms of citizens]] Registration number 7183. The author of the bill is Stepan Gavrish. None. The committee is Andrew School. Who can say from the Committee on Law Enforcement? Please, the deputy head of the committee, Maria Marcus, will now take his notes. Please, Maria Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u114	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The bill was discussed at the Committee on Law Enforcement, and the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u115	Thank you. Please move on to the discussion. Solomonine, get ready right away. It can't be. Yes, Vassili Ivanovich, please. Kalinchuku gives the word. Vasil Calinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u116	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. During a period of continuous information society, when everyone who wants is able to obtain virtually exclusive information about everything that they are interested in, without making any special effort, the issue of regulating access to and use of information, including the privacy of a citizen, is of particular relevance. So I and my colleagues at the People's Party, the People's bloc of Lithuania, are certainly ready to support any initiative aimed at raising the level of information security, including the creation of an appropriate legal field. But, honourable colleagues, honourable voters, we consider it necessary to highlight a few points that we consider to be the essence of information security issues, especially with regard to the realization of the right to private life of citizens in general and political and public actors in particular. For example, it is about the unique facts of listening to phone calls, collecting information that is uniquely private, and so forth. I have to say that these illegal acts are hardly carried out by ordinary citizens, who are much more interested in the issue of income for bread, so the initiators of information security violations obviously need to be looked at first among the representatives of the economic and management elite, the peaks, which often do not give up the various dirty methods of fighting for power. So the faction of the People's Party, of the People's bloc of Lithuania, believes that the bill on the threshold of the electoral campaign should not live because, in order not to talk there, but what is now happening in the country provides grounds for applying any means of unsanctioned information, spreading it to the media or using it for blackmail and black pyar. But prevention at the legislative level of all kinds of illegal acts is worth, in our view, attention and support. The faction of the People's Party, the People's bloc of Lithuania, is proposing a bill to support in the first reading to correct the proposed measures of responsibility for certain illegal activities in the field of information security, as well as to reconcile this law with the already existing regulatory framework. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u117	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation, registration number 7183. [[on the protection of personal rights and freedoms of citizens]] Let's reinforce the Constitution by law. Vote. For - 141. By factions, please: “Regions of Ukraine” – 19, Communists – 51, People's Party – 33, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 4, Socialists – 1, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, People's Block Lithuania – 19, Social Democrats – 0, “Trust of the People” – 8, National Movement – 1, “One Ukraine” – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 0, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, you've heard the committee's opinion, and you've done quite correctly and convincingly that this is a law that guarantees the rights of citizens, including us as citizens, so that we don't get compromised by these hearings and so on and so forth. Let us vote in favour of this bill. Please! We vote in favour of the draft Act on amending certain legislation on the protection of personal rights and freedoms of citizens. Registration number is 7,183. Please vote. Vote is the rights and freedoms of citizens. On December 10, World Human Rights Day was celebrated. For - 174. According to factions: “Ukraine’s Regions” – 20, Communists – 54, People’s Party – 31, “Our Ukraine” – 4, “Timoshenko Block – 20, Socialists – 1, Ukrainian People’s Party – 7, People’s Block – 18, Social Democrats – 0, “Trust of the People” – 8, National Movement – 2, “One Ukraine” – 4, “Reforms and Orders”, “The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, non-fractional – 5. He obeys the draft Law on the Prohibition of Political Persecution and the Limitation of the Rights of Citizens by Political Sign. Registration number 7373. Report by Kruczkov Georgi Korniyovich. Get Tara ready from the committee. [[Field]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u118	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, drafting and introducing a bill prohibiting political persecution and restricting the rights and freedoms of citizens on political grounds is based on a real situation in the state, numerous violations or restrictions on the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, both in the past and in particular after the presidential elections. Something was wrong, said President Yushchenko and expressed his support for the establishment of additional guarantees for the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. The project is aimed at creating guarantees against the persecution of citizens for political reasons on any return to the political life of the state. Therefore, we do not have the law on political opposition, guarantees of its rights and protection. The law is based on the provisions of the Constitution, international and domestic legal acts that proclaim the rights of citizens to take a political position, to have their views, and to promote them under clearly defined restrictions. But we can't agree with scientific experts that the project doesn't bring anything new. The project establishes, and this is its core, that the establishment of political persecution is the exclusive prerogative of the judiciary, that the courts are considering and considering these cases is a guarantee of the constitutional rights of citizens, protection against unjustified persecution. The bill sets out how the courts deal with such matters and the implementation of their decisions, as well as the responsibility for their failure to implement them. The main scientific and expert government, which has reached a negative conclusion, says that the adoption of the law will create a legal wall for criminals who will be issued for those who are politically persecuted. In the meantime, part two of the second article of the fifth bill contains the following provision: The subject of consideration refuses to satisfy claims if he finds that in the action, action, or omission that is made in accordance with the law and within the limits of the powers provided for in the law. So this is a completely groundless statement. It is also said that political beliefs are difficult to detect. Well, it's completely incomprehensible how you can say that. We ask to support the bill, to adopt it as a basis, in view of the fact that the proper comments of the national MPs, as well as the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, will be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for the second reading. The Legislature Committee expressed its unanimous support for the bill. The Human Rights Committee has taken a different position, but my colleague, Teren, may speak of it. We're asking you to support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u119	Thank you. Have a seat. Field Victor from the Human Rights Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u120	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. June 15, I want to remember. In order for you to remember this date, on June 15, at a committee meeting, a draft Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Political Persecution and Restrictions on the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens on Political Signs was considered. And at the time, most members of the committee said that there was already a sufficient legal basis for banning political persecution. Yes, the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine’s international human rights treaties prohibit restrictions or privileges on the basis of race, color, and other political and religious beliefs. And I would also like to point out that in most of the statements made by the deputies at the time, it was said on the committee that its acceptance could really create the adoption of a certain legal wall that would be hidden from the justice of the person who, by committing the crimes, would pretend to be victims of political persecution. The committee’s decision at the time was that. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill. The decision was then voted against by five members of the committee, against three, and was followed by one, an objective assessment. But I want to add to myself here and to the thought that exists, let's say, on the committee. So the decision of the committee was taken on June 15th, and there was an absolute firm belief that the new authority was in place. We watched with hope, we wouldn't allow persecution for political reasons, and, unfortunately, we did see that many criminal cases that were violated, they weren't brought to justice, we know that. They have collapsed, and they can be viewed as political persecution. And that's why maybe -- I'm really stressing what I'm saying from myself -- and that's why maybe there's really not enough legal base in Ukraine. And maybe in order to put the dots above the "and" in this situation, maybe this bill is given to define the hall and not to throw it out of the way. But at the same time, I want to add that when we get up, the Supreme Council stands up for individual citizens, not to be persecuted for political reasons, and we do it perfectly right, even for individual citizens, we have hundreds of thousands more citizens, being pressed under the Stalin regime, later, and the Law on Victims of Political Repression, followed by thousands and thousands of people, remains unchanged for us for more than 10 years. Thus, at least he needs to be corrected, as Russia did when he was introduced into this law, to apply for a category such as juvenile prisoners of prisons and concentration camps. And the Supreme Council will then truly prove to be a solid legislative body if it is to protect all: to protect those who do not want to see what else is happening today, we will be objective; to protect those who were born in prisons, concentration camps of the regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u121	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? We will. Novak, please. I'd love to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u122	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, dear voters! The bill proposes the establishment of a judicial mechanism to protect citizens from political persecution and restrictions on rights and freedoms on political grounds. In the situation in Ukraine today, it is extremely important because today, especially with the coming of a new power, political persecution of the opponent has become the rule, the main pillar of state and domestic politics. In spite of all the statements made by today’s authorities that political signs are not being persecuted in Ukraine, there are countless such facts. We Communists have repeatedly warned of the threat of a new totalitarian political regime that human rights are not seen as the fundamental value and purpose of the existence of a state. Such a regime, aimed at persecuting dissidents, has now become a reality, and millions of citizens can see it on their own. Let me give you just one example. This year, in May, the head of the district health department in the Hmelnicki district, Yanchuk, summoned a deserving person to his office as chief physician of the Shepeti district hospital of Trophimczuk, forcing him to write an application for release. For one reason only, you're not a member of my team. When he found the courage to refuse to do so, he included all possible means of influence: the KLA, the police, the media. The man’s bowels continue to this day. The same attitude today at the Hungerhouse and toward a number of other leaders. The government seemed to be passing through a number of school directors, putting forth only one claim: Who did you vote for? At the time of the election of the national deputies and deputies of the local council. Clearly, political persecution is used by the authorities as an effective form of administrative influence on election results. The emissaries were already scattered in the areas. Each minister is attached to a specific area, warned that he is personally responsible for the results of the elections. That is also what the last human resources assignment has to say. In one of his first interviews, Mr. Czervonenko openly stated that he had come to Zaporozhye to force her residents to make a free choice, free of charge. Clearly, all thoughts that differ from his own will be wrong and will be persecuted. So as he sings in the song, “Is there going to be? ” The Communist faction will vote in favour of this project. Because he will, upon his acceptance, serve as the protection of human constitutional rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u123	Thank you. Basil Nadrag. Tamara Proskuratov's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u124	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Respectable colleagues, the Constitution of Ukraine guarantees freedom of political activity, which is not prohibited by the laws of Ukraine. That is, in fact, in a fundamental document that regulates the activities of both countries, both its authorities and generally the life of society, we have a standard that is consistent with all the concepts of civilized organization of society. What do we have in fact? In fact, it can be said that, unfortunately, an Asian, otherwise you won't call it, in our lives there was, there was, and the saddest was the prospect that would remain. Because the notion that you're my opponent and you have the right to think otherwise is, unfortunately, not the norm of our lives, not the norm of our mentality, not the norm of the power of the holders. Because, unfortunately, we hear conversations all the time, both in the past and in the present, that if you're not a member of the team, you don't belong on the job, because you have to leave and everything else. I mean, a civilized approach, when a person has a right to be different, we have a very different one: you have to be like me, or you're not my opponent, you're my opponent, you're my enemy. Therefore, I think that this bill is to be considered from this point of view, perhaps naturally and correctly, because it is to create civilization in relations in society, civilisation in the relations of the State and human beings, perhaps the main task when we talk about it. Therefore, I cannot accept, for example, the comments made in such a manner that it is doubtful that the constitutionality of the proposals is doubtful, that it gives political parties and public organizations the right to verify the facts of political persecution and to formulate it accordingly, is, if not unconstitutional, a subject that is not part of the legislative field of our State. On the contrary, I am deeply convinced that when we speak of political elements, political activities, human public activities, its rights must be protected not only by States but not only by the courts. He must find an opportunity to defend his rights, his interests, himself, in the end, including in political parties and in public organizations. And these actors of public life must also assume responsibility, take the initiative and verify how citizens in our country are protected and, if there are facts, participate accordingly in this process. For if they do not participate in the process, you and I will have the situation that exists today and we have: a person alone remains with power, one by one with the State, and, accordingly, whose truth and on whose side the so-called truth are, of course, on the side of the strongest, on the side of the State. Therefore, I think that this bill, at least, should be voted on in the first reading and we should do our utmost to adopt it as a whole in this assembly, because it is essential to address this issue deeply. That's what the Lithuanian People's bloc believes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u125	Thank you. Tamara Proskuratov. Behind her is Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u126	Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Indeed, the Constitution prohibits any persecution of citizens by political signs. But I don't know how the language comes back to say that there is no political persecution in our country. There have been and are political persecutions in our country. I won't talk about Kolesnik's arrest anymore. I'm not going to talk about that horrible covert incident that happened in the city hospital with John Rizak. So it's not political persecution? The president himself admitted that the number of layoffs was measured by tens of thousands. Therefore, the political motives of liberation are not even hidden. And if the release of political figures, such as heads of government, of government can be justified by changing the political course, how can the exemption of school principals, chief doctors, teachers be justified? And it doesn't matter whether it's political revenge or a banal desire to release a person for himself or for a person in need. Today, I asked the Attorney General about the terrible situation in the Drab region. When the teachers of my home school announced a strike against the illegal actions of the deputy head of the Tamil Piscoon Reich. I have deep respect for the former stewardship of paradise. Alexander Ivanovich's breakfast, which spoke of the fact that today three “ps” — professionalism, patriotism and decency — were replaced by one great “P” — partyism. And when people are appointed to positions of non-professionals, people who don't like their business, just because they have the right, so to speak, color orientation. There have never been so much repression in our country. I can't tell you the fact that pregnant teachers were threatening to have her in prison. But it's really scary to talk about. Hence, this law is essential and must be adopted immediately. Our faction, of course, sees flaws in it that are mainly related to his rapid preparation. It does not yet clearly spell out signs of political persecution, but it is something that can be worked out. And that's why our political power will vote in favour of this project, based on the fact that there is a case where, in fact, these shortcomings can be corrected later. And when all political persecution is finally halted in our country. Indeed, all citizens of our Ukraine will have the right to express their position freely, to be a member of any political force.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u127	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u128	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, distinguished voters, especially I address the electorates of my district and especially the inhabitants of my city, Konotop. Well, just don't laugh about what I'm going to say, but it can call you because you know more about the situation. Look at this, the law on the Prohibition of Political Persecution. What are we talking about? The essence of the law. The bill proposes the establishment of a judicial mechanism to protect citizens from political persecution and restrictions on rights and freedoms on political grounds. Political persecution is proposed to view the actions of authorities and local governments, businesses and organizations, political parties, and the media as morally harmful. What's next? In order not to be persecuted politically, what do you need to do? You need, you need to have political persecution or limitation of your rights and freedoms with a political sign to be proved in court. Introducing me, I went to court to prove to my canotopic. their political persecution. So laugh there, everybody. It's just impossible, it's all fantastic. This law, it's fantastic. That was not and will never be in our country. Let me give you an example. Can you imagine the President appointing me head of the Sumu administration? Can you imagine that in this country? Or in that mode, under the Kuchma regime, would I, for example, be assigned? It's just impossible. It's funny, it's scary, and it's never gonna happen. This is all called political repression. That's all, if you're in opposition, then you're in the world you live in, where you're in. It's in a bank like this. But what I'm trying to say is, honourable national MPs, I want to tell you, honourable radio audiences, and, uh, voters, in any situation, if you're confident of your opposition, you can stay human and choose what you want. And I want to say about this law, "It's just utopia, it's never going to be implemented in our country." And, because on the eunuch of the judges, I want to say, "They're in charge of the ball today, and we're appealing to it." To whom? To whom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-14-m0.u129	Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting for the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Prohibition of Political Persecution and Restrictions on the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens on Political Signs, registration number 7373. Let's take a friendly vote. For 187. Not accepted. By factions, please, who wants to be persecuted. “Regions of Ukraine” – 21, Communists – 54, National Party – 38, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 16, Socialists – 21, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, National Block Lithuania – 14, SDPU – 14, “Trust of the People” – 3, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “One Ukraine”, “Reforms and Orders”, Industrial and Business Party – 0, non-fractional – 6. Not accepted. We didn't make it? Who's in charge of getting back to voting? Please vote. Regions, we vote. For 193. Yes. Overruled. Dear colleagues, listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Varfolomiyovich, from the MP group “Trust of the People” and the membership of the MP group Blok Vladimir Lithuania. Dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Then we work on committees, factions and groups. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
