ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:05:39]] There are 407 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, consultations are now continuing at a rather high level. Therefore, we will not approach questions related to Satan’s problems. Now let's follow our plan as it is. The short procedure is followed by the draft Act on the cessation of the Ukrainian Act on the peculiarities of the privatisation of the Open Shareholder Society. [[7267]] Report by Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, Head of the State Property Fund. Dear colleagues, once again, we have come to consider matters in the same way as the day - to - day routine. What was agreed at the Conciliation Council meetings, with the participation of the Prime Minister, is now being consulted by the Chief of the Supreme Council with the President, with the Prime Minister and with representatives of the Professional Committees. And once they're done, we'll figure out what to do with other bills. We're not looking at them right now. Sign up for the procedure. Please, five minutes. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction. Gerasimov's after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u2	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you can see that there were deputies at the rostrum. And obviously, I understand that this is a protest against the fact that, contrary to the Rules, these projects are being put into the agenda today. I would ask you, as chairman, to prevent Parliament's normal legislative activities to the summer holidays, to instruct the Secretariat to multiply the projects we're talking about, because you know that the projects and the SATs, and other projects that are now required to be accepted by one package, are trying to push them out, they're not yet given to the MPs. At least now we'll be informed where these bills are at. Because there hasn't been one in Parliament's history that projects haven't been introduced yet, and we've already introduced them and we're planning how this is done in this order of things. And then we'll take off all the tension.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u3	John Gerasimov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u4	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u5	Please, Simone's microphone. Behind him is Bronnik's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction expresses its strong protest against the lawlessness that is being generated in the Supreme Council. And our protest is realized in our right not to allow further consideration of other bills, except that we will begin our meeting with the submission of applications by the people's deputies to the Prime Minister's presence and in the presence of the President, they will declare compliance with constitutional norms and laws. Only then will the Communist faction allow further legislation to be considered. At the very least, we demand once again that we first have the laws and the Constitution. And I'd like to talk to our radio audience. Those who claimed that they were both smokers and would comply with the laws were today the main violators. They got into a state execution, didn't listen to the laws and the judges. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u7	Vladimir Bronnikov. After him, Korj.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u8	Respectable colleagues. Vladimir Bronnikov, faction "Regions of Ukraine", Zaporozhye. Dear colleagues, we all live in this country! Respectable colleagues and those who now advise on how we should vote and those who consult with them were in this room until one. And all to one was outraged by the destruction of the honour and dignity of the MP when someone forced them to vote an unprepared raw document without consequences, without analysing the consequences for every citizen. We therefore categorically oppose the introduction of WTO documents before they are analysed, pending the study of all possible implications, both in relations with Europe and in relations with other strategic partners. I demand and the faction requires that we strictly comply with the Rules so that we prepare for the consideration of each law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u9	Vitaly Corge. Behind him is Stepan the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u10	Thank you. I'd like a word with Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u11	Please, it's Andrew School's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u12	Thank you. I would like to point out that all this information that comes from the fact that laws that will allow Ukraine to enter the World Trade Organization have not yet been distributed or are not known to MPs that they are united in a package and that someone has not become acquainted with this package, I would like to point out that many of those bills have already been adopted in the second, first reading and are now being considered in the second. Some bills, such as TRIPS, have been discussed for the third time in the Supreme Council. So I see no reason to claim that anyone has not seen the bill. Anyone who hasn't seen them just doesn't want to see them. And when it comes to blocking the rostrum, there's always going to be an excuse. I remember that very well, I know we don’t teach you. I just want to stress one thing: you can't stand in the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u13	Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u14	I ask you to pass the word to Michael Ratushna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u15	Microphone, please, Michael Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The issue of Ukraine's accession to the World Organization was not even economic, because it was -- and the consultations that were going on, that settled the number of significant inconsistencies that existed in the original draft laws. This is a political issue, because outside of the World Trade Organization there are only states like the Ivory Coast or the Russian Federation, which is doing everything very quickly to be in this World Trade Organization. So I agree with those colleagues who said that these laws are not the first time, not the second time, but how. So I think it's the last time they're going into this session hall. And the attempt of some to block this session, to move it to the plane of the discussion of other issues is done, I think, for one reason: to keep Ukraine out of the World Trade Club again. We also, the Ukrainian People's Party, support compliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, be careful. I share your concern, those who participated in the discussion of the procedure. But I want to remind you once again that we are not now discussing issues related to packages without packages in any other way regarding the WTO World Trade Organization. You must have guessed because of the President's standard of being in the Supreme Council walls, and it's not excluded that he's going to appear in the session room. I reiterate that the consultations of the Chief of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister for the participation of the Professional Committees are continuing. In order not to interrupt the meetings of the Supreme Council, not to waste your time, you are invited to now consider the issue completely unrelated to the WTO, what we have in our daily schedule. When we come to the issues related to WTO, we will return to the procedure, to the problems that you have raised. Now, I would like to suggest to you that we consider the draft law on the cessation of the Ukrainian Act on the peculiarities of privatization of the Open Shareholder Society, which does not, I repeat, have no relation to the problems that are causing the session hall. So let's work on the graph that we have. There will be questions about the WTO -- we will properly express our response and make our proposals. So please, let's now hear the head of the Semenyuk Valentine Petrovna State Property Fund. And then the co-reporter is appointed by the First Deputy of the Committee, Demiohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Please, Valentina Petrovna. I'm reminding you, it's a short-circuit procedure. From the rostrum, from the cabinet bed, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! You're considering a bill to suspend the Act on the peculiarities of privatization of the Open Shareholder Society. The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. This bill does not need financial costs. Why does the government today come up with a proposal to suspend the appropriate privatisation of the Shrineman? First of all, in order to prepare an object for privatization, a detailed analysis of all external factors related to financing, maintenance, circulation and the work of a major institution such as the Shretelek. Pending the adoption of an appropriate privatization programme, which is currently being discussed and developed in the Cabinet of Ministers, it is necessary to suspend the privatisation of the Shrineman in order to study in detail all markets associated with the operation of such a large shareholder company as the Shrineman. In order for this work to be done, it is necessary for Parliament to take the appropriate decision. First of all, why are we asking to suspend the privatisation of the Shrineman, because according to the list of sites that are going to privatize, which are approved by the 2005 budget, is for the privatization of the Shrineman. But to date, this object is actually unprepared and needs to be studied in markets and then prepared for privatization. So the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is making a proposal to suspend the Act on the peculiarities of the privatisation of the Open Shareholder Society of the Shrineman, especially since today this enterprise works profitablely, states. is an effective owner of this facility, selected by good managers. This year, this company listed the corresponding funds and dividends in the budget, it's profitable, and I think we need to get out of the privatisation of the Shrineman. To date, this object is not suitable for privatization, so we ask that we support the draft law under number 7267 and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u19	Yes, the report is complete. Thank you for saving the time. I'm reminding you, short-circuited procedure, so there won't be any questions. Please, Vladimir Demiohin. Volodymyr Demiokin's microphone. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investments, Anatoliyovich Demjochin. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable members of the Government! The Committee on Economic Policy has considered the draft law on the cessation of the Ukrainian Act on the peculiarities of the privatization of the Open Shareholder Society by Ukretelekom and supported the adoption of the Act as a whole. Motives. We have considered the issue of capitalization and the issue of profitability. That's the number. For example, last year, the dividends received by Gosbudget, 304.5 million, are planned this year. The 706 million dividend plan, that is, more than twice the increase in State dividends. We believe that, because of this increase in business profitability, and because the assessment of the stock package can be revised and will be not $5.8 billion, but much more, we propose the adoption of this law as a whole. And for what time? I think life will show, a year or two. And we'll see for ourselves what it's going to be like to do with the Crutches. Thank you for your attention. The Committee requests support for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u21	Dear colleagues! Wait, please. Here comes the question. Before the vote, I will definitely give it. Short-term procedure. Please, Puzakov. It's Karmazin. Puzakova microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u22	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Privatization of VAT by Uktrelek is another branch destruction. And over a strategic enterprise, the state will lose complete control. Laws are worth adopting, and we, the national electorate, are obliged to do just that. But they should keep in mind strategic objects, for they are of vital importance to Ukraine’s economy, for its prospects. It is not clear that privatization in our country is completely distorted because the state has lost its most important strategic objects and today it is painful to see that our enterprises are owned by foreign oligarchs who dictate their policies. What did the State receive from privatization? Eighty percent of the state’s property was stretched out, and the country’s budget fell apart, and that was the end of it. State economists do not understand that the process of privatizing strategic objects should be accompanied by real economic calculations. Economic security, the foreign market monopoly, the internal market monopoly -- that's all to be calculated. And the privatization of such a strategically important object as Ukratelek should be under special law and have a programme for the development of this object after privatization. In general, objects that make a profit to the State should remain state property. Indeed, the State does not feel the threat of economic security. Because we have less than 30% of the infrastructure industry. Summaries of financial activity in 2000 have shown that consumers were given services of almost 3.5 billion, compared to the l99 increase in income by 26%. The tax revenue of VAT on the consolidated budget was 3% of the total. There has been a positive trend in accelerating the development of new services. Incomes that have increased almost fourfold. This contributed to the lowering of tariffs on the Internet service. And today, Skretelek is recognized as a leader among Internet providers. So please tell me, Mrs. Red Reformers, the orange revolution, is it necessary to turn a high-cost object into bankruptcy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u23	Yuri Carmazin, please. Behind him is Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u24	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National MPs, one of the few and very small laws given by the Government, because this Law has only two terms: "Stop the act of the law on the features of privatization of the Open Shareholder Society and become effective from the day of publication." I fully support this, because usually the goal of privatization is to find an effective owner if there is no one. We are constantly told that the state cannot be an effective owner. Maybe. I don't understand why the first step in this case the government did, to cancel only, to stop the act of the Law. In my opinion, the law that was passed in President Kuchma's time, by those rules that gave everything only to his oligarchs, was unclear, unfair, and needed a ski-boo-wa-wa. And we see that clearly. So now the 706 million that are going to get the state this year is not the limit, you can get even more if you make more effective use of this state property. No chicken master who carries golden eggs sells. This also applies to those privatizers who now want to sell Odessa's driveway. It's crazy today to sell even at a billion dollars a factory that just doesn't have a price. He's today, no one's gonna give him the normal price he's actually worth. In fact, it costs a lot more. So I'd like to use the presence of a large number of government officials, which we can rarely see in the hall, and I'd like to turn to them: Your Honor, let's take the first step. I agree with the committee that offered to adopt this law, which, I repeat, only has two lines to adopt this law in general today, because there is nothing to add to it, but to go on: to repeal this law altogether. And income-generating organizations like Skrutlekom, like the Odessa port factory, like ports, don't privatize at all. They must remain as those that are strategically important to the economy and defence of state ownership. So that what happened today from the skynergo, when the lights are turned off, and no one has to ask about it, because the owners are sitting in the Russian Federation. I'm going to the Minister of Energy and the government, so let's take steps to get them back to us and the skyscrapers, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u25	Please, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u26	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, guests, our voters. Ukraine's economic security is, as is known, the Constitution of Ukraine refers to the most important functions of the state and is determined by the affairs of the entire nation. [[Article 17]] And this is the faction of the People's Party. And I would like to consider a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main criterion for the approval of this bill is the strategic importance of the communications sector, as well as the business involved, for Ukraine’s economy and security. At present, there is a need to ensure effective protection of the communications industries and to prevent their actual destruction in general. The experience of domestic privatization as well as the world’s experience convinces us that the loss of control of the state over strategic enterprises revolves around huge losses and a host of unresolved issues that require huge government financial contributions to resolve. So just to prevent the possible negative consequences of privatising a leading communications business, Bill 7267 provides for the effective management of the state's corporate rights in an open-ended limited company called Shretelek. In principle, it would be more appropriate to suspend in general the operation of the rules of the applicable law governing the sale of a share, that is, a package of shares at the open market to an industrial investor. Nor can the proposed legislative proposal to increase the State-backed "Smarthead" stock package, which is economically appropriate, as it will ensure annual receipts to the State budget of the respective dividends. The undisputable document in favour of the State's preservation of control of the Shrimp is that today this enterprise carries the primary burden of ensuring the provision of low-income public telecommunications services to our poor citizens, including insolvent consumer groups. Private investors who want to maximize their profits are usually not interested in providing such services. And that's a well-known fact. The People's Party faction, supporting this bill, invites colleagues to support the national interest of hundreds of thousands of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u27	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u28	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to draw our attention to the double bottom of this bill tabled by the government of capitalist ministers. First of all, the net income of the company is now 500 million. A year's worth of money. Why do we try to throw away the chicken that carries the golden eggs over and over again and leave the property of individuals? The point is, and secondly, only 43 percent of the shares in the Shrimp Pack belong to the state today. So it's not appropriate to ask questions about how to return, to increase this to 50 percent and plus one share. Moreover, the suspension referred to in this bill only allows you not to sell shares of a state-owned package at discount prices, but it does not remove the possibility of further privatization of this company because the basic law on privatization continues to work. That is why we, the Communists, clearly understand this double bottom of this bill and declare to the government capitalist ministers, taking into account all that has been said in our speeches, the distinguished Anatolia. Kirilovich, I am addressing the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kinakh, our faction is ready to support this bill, but if they are removed from office, we are against this disgraceful complicity. If you now declare these co-conspirators to be removed from office, we will certainly vote in favour of this bill. If you support, continue to support these shameful violators of the Constitution and Ukraine, even the bourgeois-democratic republic. We're going to take the position that we're taking today, as you can see: stand like a rock in front of a rostrum, and we're not going to support any bill that your government, the government of capitalist ministers, is proposing. That's our position, it's firm before it's resolved. and Thank you for your attention. Ours will take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. For reasons of vote. Don't scream! Dear colleagues, I'm very glad that we have this presence as large as ever, but I'm less pleased with your noise, because I don't hear who wants it. Please, Simonenko's microphone for vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. I want to address all of you. It seems to me that this is a time of determination and trial for us. If we have now washed this particular situation without demonstrating our will and consistency as to whether the Supreme Council will protect its right to constitutional norms and the rule of law, then those who have come today and those who have come to the Supreme Council at the request of the United States of America have arrived, others have come to force the Supreme Council to vote infamous laws on Ukraine's entry into the WTO. I ask you, my fellow Communist faction, to support this bill and we are prepared today to defend the right of the people to normal services provided by the Shrineman. But I'm asking you, let's not all vote together right now, and we're going to demand that today, in this room, everyone who is co-sponsors vote on all the rest of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, be careful, we'll make our decisions now. Those of you who are familiar with the bill see that it consists of half a sentence. I mean, I think we have every reason to accept it in general as a law. But I would like us to adopt it as a whole as a law with a reference to science and expertise. And the Science-Expert Authority is quite right to say that we need to define the term by which we suspend the operation of this law. Recommends the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the head of the Fund agrees that action is being halted until the new state privatization programme is adopted. That's why I'm here with this proposal: on the adoption as a whole of the law on the suspension of the law on the specializations of the privatization of the Shrine to the adoption of the new privatization programme, I'm voting on the bill number 7267 as a whole as a law with this addition. Please vote. Vote. [[16:35:59]] For 336 The law was passed in an editorial form that I proposed: that it was suspended until the new privatization program was adopted. My fellow Members, I ask you once again: when we get to the drafts that are interested in those on whom the powers of deputies depend, where we have different points of view, let's put these problems there. We are now considering matters related to privatization. And so, of course, let's actually approach that. Gurenko's microphone, please, for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u32	Gurenko, Communist Party of Ukraine I want you colleagues to understand what you voted for. Until this day, Shrimp could not have been privatized otherwise than under the law that we passed with you. Now you've removed all restrictions. And given the practice, tomorrow you're going to have a famous person put it on the list for all investors -- and be healthy! And no privatization program is going to need what I congratulate you on. There are buyers now. Buyers, of course, because of the buffalo. I'm done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u33	Dear Stanislav Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We've suspended action until the new program is in place. You know that only one body accepts the privatization program. Such a single body is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It won't work until the program is in place. Here we have 11 or 12 drafts related to the list of objects. " On the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. ” We're talking about a reduced procedure. Bill No. 5043-3, National Deputy Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich. Gurov's microphone, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! Bill 5043-3 on the introduction of Krivoroztali into the list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization could be corporateized, I filed a bill a year and a half ago, as soon as the President of Ukraine vetoed my law on the inclusion of this enterprise in the list of non-privatizations. But what's done is done. You know very well what happened to Crimson during this time. It was privatized. It is now apparent that there has been a violation of the law and has recently been reinstated. Regrettably, the Supreme Council had not considered the bill, although it had been on the agenda on many occasions but had not reached it. By the way, you know that it's already becoming a system when the bill makes sense or loses its meaning and in the Supreme Council it's lying and dusting and moving into the session hall when there's no need for it to be adopted. [[I emphasize, it makes no sense.]] It's been a year and a half. To date, the Government has adopted a privatization order for Krivorostali, which clearly provides for, among other things, social and cultural issues and other problems. In addition, the regulation provides for an active tender for the sale of the enterprise, which in turn will ensure the transparency of reprivatization. The combination, whose interests I put above all else, requires one thing: stability, stability and once again stability, and confidence in tomorrow. And most importantly, so that we don't stop them from working, they know what they're doing. Everything that will be done must therefore be done, not to the detriment, but to the benefit of this glorious collective and, of course, of the Power of Ukraine. In view of what has been said, and what the “One Ukraine” faction believes today, there is no need for our Ukraine to have any conflict between the various branches of government and, above all, between the Government and the Supreme Council, a concerted, joint and fruitful work is now needed. On the basis of the above considerations and given the situation, I am withdrawing my draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u35	Right. Thank you. Bill number 5043-10. National MP Kozlovsky Anatoly Mikhajlovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! This Law 5043-10 proposes to amend the project "Objects of State Property Rights that are not privatized" and to exclude from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization of such holdings as the silk industry. Novokaterinsky, Veselinivsky district; šhkoradgosp " Ukraine", Bratsky region; radgosp " Guardia Ilić", Yellow region; Radgosp " Ingułecki, Snigurovka and Radgosp ""the garden district. They don't do a few years, they don't do about 10 years, they don't have any rooms, they don't have any equipment, they don't have material. silk, which has long since been extinct and sprawled, and there is nothing, and most importantly, there is no support for the state of this sector, as well as the order. So I propose that these farms be excluded from state property and accepted as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u37	So, please, Bill 5043-14. Says Alexander Alexander Shevchenko. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u38	Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dniproperovistina, Volodymyr Litvina National Party faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, we are today looking at No.5043-14 on the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. The purpose of the amendments to the Ukrainian Law is to clarify the list with a view to excluding objects that have lost national significance. At the moment, it is the Pochrov Interregional Radgosp factory, which is in a very difficult financial and material position. The situation with the viability of this facility is now extremely unsatisfactory because of the financial bankruptcy of the economy and the practical suspension of its economic activity. Since the specified object has no strategic significance both for the State and for the area and, in fact, has ceased its activity, it is proposed that it be excluded from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. The proposal to exclude this object from the list is supported by the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration and the Ministry of Agricultural Policy of Ukraine. The implementation of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized does not require additional financial and material costs in this case. The adoption of the Act will allow the privatisation of the Pochrovsky Interregional Radhosgericht factory in 2005 which will not only provide additional funds to the State budget and increase the responsibility of the enterprise for the economic performance of its activities, but also ensure the rights of members of the labour force and pensioners to obtain their own land. I impeccably ask you, Your Honor, to support Bill 5043-14. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u39	Thank you. Bill number 1543-15, please. Reported by National Deputy Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u40	Thank you. Tell them to leave, it's impossible to work. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Not Privatized, under number 5043-15, provides for the exclusion of the main State Information Centre of Light Industry from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, but may be corporateized. This is Appendix 2 to this law. The point is that the Main State Information Computing Centre for Light Industry was created back in the time of the administrative and economic system to meet the needs of the Ministry of Light Industry. And then it did an important function, given that almost 800 enterprises in the Ministry system were in state form of ownership. Today the situation has changed. And the Ministry of Industrial Policy, in the area of which the business is now in charge, has stopped funding the jobs already done, the financing of the enterprise itself, resulting in a multi-year debt of salaries and payments to the State Budget. Efforts by the team to organize work in line with the market and management conditions have failed, and as a result its activities are aimed not at the development of an enterprise but at the repayment of past debts and the execution of lawsuits. But it is virtually impossible to pay off debts in the amount of 350,000 workers in the coming years. The reality is that the solutions to these issues require the involvement of investors, and the state-owned form of ownership in this case and the status of the company that is not allowed to privatize does not allow additional funds to be involved to dramatically improve its efficiency. Business activity is not a sign of state importance. The findings of the committee, the parliamentary committee's profile on this issue, are positive. The government and the ministry also do not object to the exclusion of this company from the list of objects. So it seems that all the prerequisites are made to make a positive decision. The adoption of the proposed changes to the law will create favourable conditions for investment participation, allow more efficient management of the production business, improve the economic performance of its work, which will eventually increase the revenue of the State budget and the social insurance fund. In view of the above and considering that the implementation of the draft law does not require additional financial and material costs, I propose that the bill be approved and made a positive decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u41	Thank you. Bill number 6130 will be reported by national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National MPs. The Turboat VAT, which was in Kharkiv, is the main manufacturer of turbines for nuclear power plants. At present, the company has successfully implemented a strategic target for increasing production volumes, producing exports, improving production quality, and rational use of all kinds of resources. This enterprise has been included in the list of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy and the security of the state since August 29, 2000, by government decree No. 1346. It is clear to all that this business is a monopoly on the state - owned market for steam and hydraulic turbines. In this regard, I propose to amend the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, and to submit to them the VAT "Turboat". The adoption of this bill will not require spending from the State budget of Ukraine and will contribute to the State's strategic course to increase the volume of WAT production by Turboat and increase the output of exports will ensure the development of the scientific and technical potential of nuclear energy and the preservation of a highly skilled labour team of specialists. The team of experts will be confident tomorrow. What is more, they will be sure of tomorrow and potential customers. We remember when the company became a hostage of political pressure, political blackmail, and Ukraine lost only one billion dollars in U.S. That's why I would ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt this bill and tell you that the position of the government, as far as I know, is positive about it. There's also a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I am also grateful to the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment under the chairmanship of Stanislav Gurenko, who, having considered this project on June 22, 2005, offered to accept it as a basis. I think that the adoption of both this and the other bills that were issued today will help restore our domestic industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u43	Thank you. Bill number 6130-3, please. As reported by John Sidorovich Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, our bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, under number 6130-3, provides for the inclusion in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, VAT packages "Hark Turboat" and VAT "The Odessa Portal Plant" that are in state ownership on the day the law becomes effective. The Turboat VAT is the main company in the design and manufacture of turbines for nuclear power plants. More than 50 percent of the company’s production is exported. The WAT Turboat weight in the world market for similar equipment is over 15 percent, and the steam and gas turbines are exported to 16 countries. A profitable enterprise, accounting for about 30 million dollars of taxes and congregations each year in the State Budget. At present, the company is successfully organizing a strategic course on the increase in production volumes, the release of products for export. The quality of production, the rational use of all kinds of resources. The Odessa import plant is one of the leading chemical enterprises. The main focus of the business is the production of carbamide and ammonia and the provision of services for its transhipment into export. Businesses increase production volumes, increase government budget revenues, and ensure a high level of pay-per-view. The factory is a city - run enterprise in South Africa. The company is modernizing its products, establishing a new and reliable automatic system of manufacturing control and warning of accidents. In the past three years alone, capital deposits have exceeded half a billion dollars. The Odessa import plant has a monopoly on the market for services with overcrowding of ammonia, carbamide, and other chemical products. He has successfully implemented a transit agreement on Russian ammonia production in Ukraine. Privatization of the Odessa Porting Plant can have negative consequences, such as threats to economic security. In view of what has been said, the project proposes to amend the list of property rights and to take stock of the State’s statutory fund of the Odessa Airport VAT “Turboat. ” Well, I think that's how you and I are going to contribute to a strategic course for increasing production volumes on these two important folk objects, increasing the volume of production and services in the internal market and exports, ensuring state control over environmental security and high conservation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u45	Thank you. Bill 6310-1 will be reported by Mother Vitaly Ivanovich. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u46	Mother Vitaly Ivanovich, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs The need for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized is a strategic significance for the economy and security of the VAT State of the Mayak factory. The bill proposes to include in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, the VAT plant Mayak. The VAT factory "Mayak" is a leading business in Ukraine and in SND countries for the production of magnetic recording devices. The Mayak plant is co-managed by the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense's target programme for the development and manufacture of equipment under the theme "Translation", the contractor of state orders for the repair and re-testing of military-technical products. Since 2002, the Mayak factory has been operating profitablely, fully accounted for with debts to the budget, the Pension Fund and salary. Between 1999 and 2003, the company increased industrial production by 6.6 times, while in 2003 the number of jobs increased by 90. The average wage has increased eightfold. By 2004, there were plans to create an additional 40 jobs. At present, the company has successfully implemented a strategic course on increasing production volumes, export production, and product quality. Taking into account what has been said, the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized proposes to amend the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization and to add to the listed VAT list “Vádvod Majak”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u47	Thank you. Bill 6310-P will be reported by the National MP Rudenko Hennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u48	Thank you. It's a shame that the issue of privatization is being considered by a reduced procedure, because it's a matter of world view. Some political forces believe that profitable businesses cannot be privatized because they are a golden chicken and a chicken carrying golden eggs for the country. Interestingly, these same political forces then convince us that we cannot privatize businesses that are harmful. My bill for the Bilshik factory is about a bankrupt enterprise. I think it's hard to even consider today. It's hard in this situation to consider the privatisation of the Bilshovik factory. I think it's necessary to support the privatization of a factory that's probably the only car industry left in the state. It has no strategic significance for the state, so I propose to my fellow national deputies to support an enterprise that mossles eyes in Kiev, which does not have strategic significance for the country, for Kiev, and privatization will allow funds to be found for the budget. A transparent privatisation will make serious investments in the budget. The MPs who don't support this bill, I think they'll be involved in further looting the company. So it's all on your conscience. I propose to support my bill on that. To get the Bilshoic factory to privatize. And in general, I think we need to move on to the situation. A new approach to the consideration of privatization issues. Today we need to argue, to put emphasis on something completely different, that we need not argue, as deputies, that we need to put an enterprise on privatization. Today, the Holding Fund and the government are to prove to individual enterprises that are to be left behind. Today, there is no clear list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u49	Thank you. Bill number 7272, reports National MP Vitaly Majko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u50	Vitaly Majko, faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs. The bill proposes to include a state-owned company called Artem Machine Company from a list of property rights objects that are not privatised to the Ukrainian Act on Lists of Objects Not Privatized but Can Be Corporateized. Thus, this law allows for the maintenance of an existing technological chain to ensure the execution of State orders for the production of domestic special-purpose technology as well as high-precision weapons. We think this is caused by what the entire enterprise does under this law. Only a small part of him under another law. We bring the entire enterprise to the same law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u51	Thank you. Bill number 7272. Boki, please. It's about the Curve Rig. 7272-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u52	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues! Our bill refers to the listing of property rights that are not subject to the privatisation of the state industrial enterprise Crovbaprostvodanje. It's a monopoly enterprise. The main activities of the enterprise are the production and implementation of drinking water through a complex of facilities, the distribution of water networks related to the only technological process for the city of Krivi Rig and the five surrounding rural areas of the Dnipropetrov region, as well as the provision of technical water, the transfer of water to the watersheds by water bodies, the regulation of rivers in Ingulec, Saxagan, Bokova and Bokovenko, the flushing of the Ingulec River with fresh water. highly mineralized waters of the mining and metallurgical enterprises of Krivbasu, which enables the drinking water supply of the city of Mikolai to be provided and the irrigation of the micro- and Herson regions. The Kravbas water supply activity with 100% water supply will provide industry and agriculture in the Krivoriz region. And according to the government's ruling, it's strategic for the economy and security of the state. The main counterparties of the water supply contract are the energy-metallurgical enterprises and residential-communal enterprises. Krivbas water supply keeps the object in balance of the increased danger, among which the Radusan cost composition of chlorine, which is an ecologically dangerous object, is the main focus. In addition, the company operates water wells, water canals, wind and hydrotechnological protection facilities that are not leased. The draft Law provides for an enterprise to add to the listed list of objects that are not to be privatized. Its adoption will contribute to the implementation of a strategic course for the preservation of a unique monopoly enterprise and will ensure that the state of environmental safety and the preservation of a highly skilled labour team of specialists in the enterprise is monitored. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u53	Thank you. Ivan Sidorovich, please continue with 7272-2 on Lugansk Heat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u54	We also propose to add 76% of the shares of the Lugansk Heat Company to the list of property rights. The need for adoption, the adoption of the bill, is a strategic concern for the economy and security of the State of the Lugansk Heat Company, which is proposed to be included in the listed list, a package of actions aimed at protecting public interests. This business will ensure a steady, high income activity. And if it is privatized, there is no guarantee that the integrity of this property complex will continue to be maintained, that human and productive potential and its main statutory activities will be preserved. We believe that the adoption of such a law by Ukraine will ensure State control, and this will contribute to the implementation of the strategic course of this enterprise, which is currently working profitablely to further increase its production volumes. We believe that the Supreme Council will make a well - thought - out decision and preserve the interests of the state in this area with regard to these objects reported in the two bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've heard reports on all 12 bills. There's an offer that we're going to stop now. Then, when we return to him, we will listen to the report from the profiling committee and the report from the special committee. After that, a discussion. And then there'll be a vote on every bill. In view of the presence of the President, we interrupt our consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine is taking part in our meeting. Let's welcome the head of state. [[Applause]] And there's the Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Let's welcome them too, it rarely happens. [[Applause]] Please, have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, during the meeting of the Conciliation Council, we agreed that at this evening's meeting, we would put forward a proposal supported by the Ukrainian National Deputies in person, honourable colleagues, in the person of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions of a total of 326 national deputies to consider in a special procedure the bills related to the introduction of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization. Before we go to the practical consideration of the initiative, I emphasize the initiatives of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, allow me to invite President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk of Ukraine to the floor. Then, when we get to practical consideration, let's do it with respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u57	Dear national MPs, friends, colleagues! My address is, in fact, to each of you and to the questions involved in the single package regarding the adoption of draft laws after the introduction of the World Trade Organization. I'd like to make a general comment on why I'm here, why I asked you for a few minutes of attention to express your position. I wanted to start by saying that, dear friends, a package of laws is not directed against someone who is not directed against a particular sector, against a particular structure. In order for us to have a professional view today of Ukraine's interests in the organization of the market, the labour force, the services, the goods, the capital for us. Dear colleagues, have the honour to listen, have a culture to listen to. I will not interrupt you, I give you my word. I would like to emphasize, dear friends: in order for us to have the markets adapted in these four positions, we need to review, amend and supplement Ukraine's 350 laws. Usually this road is in every country in three, four years. Position of the second. In order for us to be adapted to these four market sectors, we need to review, cancel 150 government regulations. Third. In order to be adapted to this market, we need to cancel some 1,300 notable acts, acts that regulate norms, traditions, or standards. In other words, dear friends, when we talk about this colossal volume, we are certainly talking about the fact that our collective efforts must be focused on this and, of course, we should have enough time to consider these issues. So from this enormously large package that we need to make, a small volume is being offered today. It's just a little test of our ability to accept these rules in Parliament. As a rule, each parliament, starting with Lithuania, Estonia, Poland, when faced with such a task, came out of a special procedure, a brief path for the adoption of laws that dealt with the matter. Now, in fact, dear friends, I would like to make a statement. What's going to happen, do we take this package or don't we take it? So that no one will feel that nothing is changing. So today, as long as we think that these laws can be ignored, ignored, rejected, accepted, seven anti-dumping cases are going on in Russia, things that affect the entire product nomenclature, not some particular position of the product, but the whole nomenclature group. We have four anti-dumping cases with Mexico, six anti-dumping cases with the European Union and so on and so forth. We lose 8 billion dollars of our product every year. Now the question is. We can agree that this year and we will lose these 8 billion, we can make changes. Regarding change, I would like to say the following, dear friends. First, I've heard rumors here on the left about national interests. I went to this rostrum, based solely on national interests. And I want to say that a packet of 14 bills leads to Ukraine's benefit, which is estimated to be about 1.9 percent gross product growth if this package is accepted. This is position one. Regarding export. The adoption of this package of 14 bills allows us to raise Ukrainian exports by one and a half billion for one year. And you know, Ukrainian exports make up 60 percent of the gross domestic product, if we're talking about pensions, wages and so on. Position to be taken. In terms of the State Budget, by way of the cancellation of the benefits, the expansion of the base is calculated that the Ukrainian budget receives an additional cost of about 2.3 billion dollars per year at the expense of this package. Next thing you know, in terms of regulatory policy, if there's nothing to change today, the integrated import tariff is now 5 percent if you take the generalized base. If we take this base that's proposed, we have a generalized customs tariff rising by one tenth. We have a better position than the position we have today. And last of all, friends, in other words. That's what I was going to say as an economist in these positions. And the last thing I'd like to say is what's going on with the club and our involvement in this world structure. Today, 148 organizations are members of the World Trade Organization. 148 countries have full membership, and 30 countries today are on the road to full membership. That's 95 percent of the world's trade. 95 percent of the world’s market. For our neighbors, if we say: Moldova is a member of the World Trade Organization. Russia is much more dynamic in the World Trade Organization negotiations, Georgia is a member of the World Trade Organization. Each country won a debate with the World Trade Organization. So, dear friends, I would like to ask today every national MP who refers to a democratic bloc that refers to other preferences: friends, now it's not about colors, now it's not about ideology, now it's about the market that exists around Ukraine, it's about Ukraine. We'll talk on one alphabet, we'll work on the same rules. We can live in such a way that our beautiful airplanes in Ukraine could land in Paris at the exhibition, and no one should be afraid of being arrested, and we have no right, nor should we defend our national rights. And so, dear friends, whether I refer to the national MP to the ruling majority or the non-government majority, I am addressing each of you as a citizen of Ukraine: support these extremely relevant laws. Please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u58	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, one minute! Dear colleagues, we need to identify ourselves now. [[What's the procedure? Now, one minute!]] Dear colleagues, I'll explain to you now, and then we'll sign up for the procedure. I would like to remind you once again that a group of national deputies, who are the leaders of parliamentary groups and factions, have introduced the draft Ordinance on the Consideration and Adoption of Bills Related to Ukraine’s Introduction to the World Trade Organization, is registration number 7726. The draft regulations are intended to take decisions at the same time on the return of previously unsupported drafts and to include them in the agenda of the day, to include in the agenda those bills that the Supreme Council has not yet considered and to decide that we are adopting a group of bills in the first and second readings and as a whole as a law, and to adopt a group of bills in the second reading as a whole as a law, and this draft regulation does not provide for a discussion of relevant bills, that is to say. I'm telling you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, I'm just telling you what we're about to vote for. It's the procedure. One minute, from the procedure for considering the inclusion of the Project Order in the agenda, please log in. Five minutes. Please sign in. Well, let's do 5. If we don't find a common point, we're going to have another 5. Let's do 5 for now. Five minutes, please. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs who have been enrolled for statements from the procedure for consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision. [[Registration number 7726]] Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u59	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to go to Vladimir Mikhailovich and ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to tell you why by the time he got into the President's Hall, the moment we're giving a speech, we don't have all the projects that we need to have on our hands. I want Victor Andryovich to know. We didn't get them, they're gone! I've got three folders, I've got all of the projects being investigated, and those projects that we've thrown out because the government's filed them unqualified, Victor Andryovich, they're supposed to be finalized, we're going through dates and committees. They didn't cross this road, and they decided to use you as a ram, Victor Andriyovich. So let's divide all the arguments that you said, we can vote for all of this, but let's make quality laws so that we don't just dig these.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u60	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u61	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u62	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u63	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will not vote for this disgraceful bag or bag, as it may be called. This is the first time. It's different. I'd like you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to read the bill. Third, it's simple. I am surprised to hear that this project is being carried out softly by those who have spoken against every package a few months ago when it comes to political reform. Third. There's no economic justification, and as we weren't assured yesterday, the Supreme Council didn't get the project or, let's say, the economics calculations. Four. Frankly speaking, it is practically a territory for transnational corporations and a foreign mess that will destroy and throw out millions of unemployed again, looking for a job abroad. The faction is absolutely against it and requires it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u64	Alexy Korsakov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u65	Please pass the word to Bronnnikov Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u66	Vladimir Bronnikov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u67	Viktor Andreević, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have had many demands in this room and a desire to behave with dignity, to comply with all laws, to comply with their procedures. I would therefore like to draw your attention, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to the fact that such a draft decree violates all the laws for the consideration of documents proposed for us to adopt in this Chamber. And we take responsibility for the people. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction therefore categorically disagrees with such a procedure and believes that such crucial laws can only be considered after the Committees have been discussed in both the first and the second readings. We have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u68	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u69	Katerina Vaschuk, Volodymyr Litwina People's Party Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Victor Andryovich! During 11 years of work in the Supreme Council, I have seen different moments in the adoption of laws, but I still don't remember adopting such a large number of laws, some of them the national deputies didn't even see, the first, the second and the whole, Victor Andryovich, the reverend, we believe you, but explain. There are laws that will hurt the farmer. Which we're going to go to the peasants and what we're going to tell them when there's a number of things that are going to hit the internal market and the peasant. Let's just think about it and look at these laws calmly, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u70	Andrew Schlell, Faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u71	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, I would like to point out that we've only been discussing these drafts for the past three months. Count it, please, and count it, please, when did this happen? Next, a special conciliatory council was formed, with representatives of all factions, groups, and all who wanted to participate from the Committees discussed these bills together with the Government. There was a detour, a detour of all the moments. Everyone agrees there. The factions are obliged to come and bring this information to the faction. They come to the next meeting and they say, "Yes, we agree, but some nuances need to be diverted." More than 200 amendments have been directed by national MPs on the bill, all accepted and taken into account. What are the other things that need to be done to work together that are still needed by nonspecific people, not even the Government, but the Ukrainian people, the bills? Because telling you where to go or not to go is ma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u72	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u73	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u74	Alexander Frost, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u75	The Honourable President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister, indeed, spoke here of a colleague of mine who had been in Parliament for 11 years. I haven't met a procedure like this in 16 years. What's the specialty here? Victor Andryovich said it was right that we would be able to access the world's commercial space, and they would work with us on the same rules. But we're opening up our territory for this space. And that's why we have to think, first of all, about the people that are in this area. I've only got one paper, like sugar. We're going to be out of work in the future of one and a half million people. We're destroying our own economy. Let's destroy our own budget. And so, at which point you don't take it, you see the same thing. I was now comforted by the talk of the School, which does not even know the names of certain laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u76	Dear colleagues. Replica school, please. Time is running out, but they didn't call it a last name. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u77	Thank you. I'm usually delighted with the faction's head. But I want to remind you that I don't want to count the bills that this faction voted for and that are actually destroying the sugar industry right now. So let's talk about who reads and who doesn't read, well, let's not question the competence of the national MPs and mine. I'm sure it was a thoughtless word. And I'm sure in the following words they'll be more thoughtful and more confident, because competing with those people who are still on the road to communism is not worth it. Still, they have not been there for so many years, and they will not be there until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, we exchanged our thoughts on the matter. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I beg you, I ask your honourable colleagues to make a conscious decision. That's why it's going to be a procedure, I'm asking for your attention. What I'm gonna do. I've already appealed to the court on this matter, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, you will not hear what the vote is about, I beg you. I'm not violating it. I'll do it according to procedure. Dear colleagues, Alla Alexandrovna, I said my position at the Conciliation Council. But at the same time, there are signatures of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the factions that made the decision. Let the Supreme Council determine, please. I make mistakes from the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, in this regard. I can't yell at you, please. I understand. Dear colleagues, to be aware, I'd like to ask your attention later. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please pay attention, I beg you, then you can make it, let me tell you, and then you'll be able to express your position. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, please. I'm not, my dear colleagues, I'm not. I want to explain to you, dear colleagues. Listen to me, 'cause they're not gonna vote for it right now, and then you're gonna blame me. I'm asking you to listen, and then you'll scream. Catherine Timothy, please, please, I beg you. Yes. That's how I want to explain. Dear colleagues, before this draft decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, listen to me, before this draft decision, which. I'm begging you! Listen to me! You're normal people! Come on! Please! I'm lying under someone else, but I'm not under the executive branch, so I don't need to. Please! Please, don't. The President has already said, Your Honor. We need the Supreme Council to determine. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? What? What? Well, they won't hear what to vote about, do you understand how? Dear colleagues, there are two draft decrees on inadmissibility, on inadmissibility. Dear colleagues, wait! There are two draft inadmissibility decrees. Therefore, honourable colleagues, it is suggested that this procedure be considered: the proposal for inclusion in the agenda is first put to the vote. Listen to me! For inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision. After that, if the Supreme Council makes a positive decision, we listen to two draft inadmissibility decrees, vote them, then we will continue to determine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, such a procedure is proposed for consideration. Five minutes out of the procedure, please log in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Orobec, faction of our Ukraine. Attention, Your Honor! Well, we're in the process of dealing with the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. I think it's a special cynicism and the circumstances that are now protesting the factions that have endured in their position for 2.5 years, Deputy Prime Minister Clovis, who held as many as three positions, Satsuka, who held more than a year in office. And that's why it's just a reason to make noise, to declare that they have one single principle -- the worse, the better. We must now put to the vote and be determined. We have enough people in this room, and everything needs to be done to make the vote effective today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to sign up for one minute from the factions, then let's move on to making a decision. Well, the Supreme Council's gonna make a decision -- it's not gonna take, so that's the will of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u81	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We demand that today, before we say so, some bills be discussed so that the Prime Minister and the President may be released from their positions today as co-sponsors. Only then do they have the moral right to enter the Supreme Council Hall in general as the leaders of the state, who are to comply with constitutional norms and protect the Constitution and our right, the national deputies, to live by law. Today, they themselves are creating corruption in power by uniting commercial interests, using the status of the national MP to protect themselves. And don't sit in jail like they're going to be arrested in their own offices. We Communists today demand that we go to the table, so that the President himself can answer that he promised the people of Ukraine on the venues when he said that his authority would be fair, decent and he himself would live by the laws of Ukraine. Let him now sign the decree of release from office of all those who are now associates.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u82	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, let me tell you about this, too. First of all, as regards the very fact that this decree is being considered today and these bills in the way they're trying to force us to accept. Well, this is a saviour that wasn't just at Kuchma, I don't know where you can imagine, in what social format, that the most important laws of the state are adopted in this way. Second, the question of co-conspirators. How can we trust the authorities in the great, when the President of his loved ones, his intercessors, his helpers, including even his cousin-kuma, cannot force him to leave the deputies and allow them to violate the Constitution?Oh, my God! Third. How can we trust the authorities with regard to these laws when there are reprisals when further people are arrested, illegally arrested, when the Kolesnik and others today are a disgrace to Ukraine, and officials from the Ministry of Justice are suddenly allowing themselves to comment on political developments in the state and the laws we have adopted?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u84	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, Reverend Viktor Andriyovich, Julia Volodymyrna! We have learned to be democratic, fair, honest to ourselves and to the Ukrainian people, and we do not want the procedure to be fundamentally violated in this room today. Let's throw away all the other laws, let's look at all the laws one by one, most of them we're willing to support, vote for them, but let's do it in accordance with the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure. We will consider them peacefully for two days, and we will have no shame in violating any of the rules of procedure of our democratic Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u86	Korz, faction of Block Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u87	Thank you. Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u88	Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to point out that, of course, you can spend two or three more days, but the situation that's currently being considered in the hall shows that there's just a desire to break the job of the Supreme Council, and here you can give a day for that, two, a month, a few weeks, that's not going to change anything. Information is used that there are several positions in the bills that guarantee the entry of Ukraine into the WTO and try to speculate on them. I would like to emphasize that we can only speak strategically, whether we want Ukraine to enter the WTO or not. It must be in the World Trade Organization. Those laws that require WTO, they protect the consumer first. We will protect the manufacturer all together, but first we must protect the consumer, because he is the main beneficiary of the benefits in Ukraine, including the same producers. When no one is eaten, no one will be produced for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u90	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u91	Thank you. I would like to bring to the voters the position of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, which is the following. We certainly support the fact that Ukraine has joined the World Trade Organization, but we are firmly opposed to compromising the interests of our nation. Therefore, we insist that all draft laws that have been tabled be considered, in accordance with the Rules and in accordance with the procedure. We suggest that if we don't have enough time, that we continue the session for a week, and that we take a fundamental approach to every issue so that the Ukrainian people don't get hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u92	Yeah, that's a very good offer. Shurm's replica, and we're about to make our mark. I'll break up later. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u93	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Victor Andryovich, can I see you? Victor Andryovich! Dear Mr. President!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u94	Turn around, turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u95	Victor Andryovich! Mr. President, may I see you? Mr. President, may I see you?Oh, my God! Dear Mr. President! Dear Mr. President! I'd like to explain the reason for today's event, Victor Andryovich. Forty seconds was taken from me. I just wanted to hear from you whether you're satisfied with this package being voted by two co-conspirators: Boyko, who is essentially a priest and he's not in charge, and the Secretary of the National Security Council, Dustenko, whether they're constitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! It's the language that goes, please, one clarification, that's not the Boyko you called. Dear colleagues! We've already exchanged thoughts. I'd like to remind you once again, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now they won't understand what the vote is about. Because it's coming. [[B in m in s a l in]] They're chanting "Damn!" Now you won't hear what it's about, then you'll scream. Please! Let's take a break. Dear colleagues! Let's make a decision, because if we don't make a decision, the Supreme Council won't decide, tomorrow will be the same. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to listen, then you'll scream. Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way, dear fellows. If the Supreme Council doesn't decide on this proposal that they signed today, then tomorrow we'll be offered and considered again, the day after tomorrow. Listen, please, please, I'm begging you. And that's how it's going to be clear, it's not going to support the Supreme Council, we're going to keep working, or we're going to block the work of the Supreme Council. Listen. I want to put it, they don't. So, dear colleagues, I would like to say again, because there are two draft decrees on the non-admissibility of the draft decree, so we need to now consider the question of inclusion in the agenda, and then, if the inclusion decision is made, we need to hear about the inadmissibility. That's how. That's why he's voting. Well, come on, I'll call it a break then, even though I'll do it. Come on, I'll at least edit it. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you see? Go away, he says something that you're standing there like this. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u97	I'll call it a break. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, if you please, listen to me. On demand, well, I'm asking you. At the request of two factions, at the request of two factions, well, please, well, listen, please. At the request of the two factions, it is proposed to announce a recess. It's factions: "Ukraine," SDPU (o) for 30 minutes. Well, listen. Well, what do you suggest? Dear colleagues, what are you offering me? Call it a 30-minute break. We could suggest that we proceed in this way so that the leaders of the MPs and the factions can now be gathered. Well, listen, what are you? Not yet, I want to tell you that we haven't started the question yet. And since we have not completed the issue of privatization, it would be possible to arrange for the heads of the parliamentary groups and factions to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. At that time, Adam Ivanovich continued his consideration of the matter that we had interrupted. No objections? Please, therefore, to the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions please gather in the office of the Head. A break is announced in connection with this. And Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk will continue the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions are requested to meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, listen, please. Dear colleagues, there is now a 30-minute recess to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. We have 15 minutes left. On my right as chairman, I continue for 15 minutes to inform us of the outcome of the Conciliation Council. That's exactly what we're going to have for half an hour. We no longer have the opportunity to continue. Because under the Rules this can only be continued in the morning by voting. So please don't get excited. The Conciliation Council is now in session, and in 30 minutes, it will inform you of the results. That's the first one. The other one. Listen, please. How would you like us to end the question that started, about privatization, but it's not related to each other? Dear colleagues, we have begun with you the question of privatization. Let's finish it, it doesn't bother each other. Sign up for your motives. For reasons, please write this down. Five minutes of motive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues may not have heard of the microphones. A break was announced by 18.15, until the meeting was concluded by the Conciliation Council, so that we could be informed of the decision taken. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. For more, the Chairman has no right to proceed to the evening but to the morning by voting. So at 6: 15 p.m., we will listen to the information and make the decision accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, we held a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Well, I'm asking you, well, dear colleagues! We held a meeting of the Conciliation Council. We agreed that we should consider the drafts, make the appropriate decisions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I emphasize the appropriate decisions, but I do not run into any other decisions. We have thus agreed on a conciliatory council that today we will consider the issue of withdrawing from the Rules, continuing. I'll tell you what the decision is. Well, give me a chance to tell you, dear fellows, please! Listen to me! Listen! Yes, of course. Why do I say in such a statement that we will consider the issue of derogation from the Rules was suggested by the Conciliating Council. Well, I'm asking you, the point is that, according to the Rules, to continue the evening session, you can only attend the morning session. At the morning session, we put this proposal to a vote. The Supreme Council did not support it. Well, there you go. The Supreme Council did not support it. Therefore, today the Conciliation Council has come to the conclusion that we need to abandon that principle, that draft decision that was proposed, because it does not find support in the Supreme Council, and not for the Supreme Council to demonstrate that it is ready to consider legislation in accordance with established practice, in the Rules, today to put such a proposal to the vote, to withdraw from the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute, I'll just tell you. And make a decision if the Supreme Council decides to withdraw from the Rules to continue our work, let's say, until 10:00. . And let's see. Well, I'm telling you about the decision of the Conciliation Council. True, the Conciliation Council, honourable colleagues, makes recommendations, but the Supreme Council decides. That's why. Well, wait, I have to close the Supreme Council. Honorable fellow workers! But because. Well, please, dear colleagues! Well, let me finish to close the session! Well, can I? Well, can I tell you about the further algorithm of our work? Well, please, dear fellows! Well, where did you get all this aggression? We're normal people. Dear colleagues, we have agreed in such a way that we will consider all the bills in the order in which we agreed: first we will consider going back to the bills that the Supreme Council did not support. Well, I'll just tell you what's going to happen. Well, calm down, please, I'm begging you! Then we will discuss the inclusion in the agenda of those bills that the Supreme Council has not considered. After that, we will consider the draft laws that appear in the first reading. Which will not raise any doubt and there will be no objection in the session room, we will vote in the first reading and in general as a law. Then we'll go over the bills in the second reading, and we'll make positive decisions. But it does. Dear colleagues, do you know why we always lose in Ukraine? We can't listen to each other and hear each other. You'll listen to it all the way. I must bring to your knowledge the results of the negotiations that the Supreme Council has conducted. We also agreed that tomorrow should be our day. Parliamentary hearings, there is an offer that the parliamentary hearings will be held tomorrow in the Banking Hall of the Club as committee hearings. Tomorrow morning, we will vote on the right solution. Well, one minute! Well, please! All right. Well, I respect you! Give me a word, please! And tomorrow we're going to make a decision: we're going to change if the Supreme Council's will, our agenda, and we're going to assume that tomorrow we're going to work in plenary mode in the afternoon so that we can make decisions that belong to the Supreme Council. That's what I'm talking about tomorrow! That's why I'm asking. Well, please, dear fellows! So I ask the Secretariat to prepare a draft Supreme Council regulation on changing the working order of our own, so that tomorrow we can consider and vote on this decision. In view of the fact that we do not have the opportunity to continue our work right now, and in view of the fact that we will consider all the bills according to the reduced procedure and make decisions, I think there will be no reason for blocking the rostrum and the work of the Supreme Council tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I have every reason to declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. But first of all, I want to say that for the time being four national deputies have submitted four national deputies who are working in executive structures of power, have filed applications for terms of office. [[Well, one minute!]] The President of Ukraine said that his position was that, according to the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers should submit to the people who are co-sponsors, the President would make comprehensive decisions. Therefore, dear fellows, I beg of you! Dear colleagues, I ask you, tomorrow morning is as friendly as it is now, and it is arranged to arrive at 10 a.m. for our plenary meeting. I now declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We'll continue our plenary work at 10 o'clock. Please!
