ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:29]] There were 419 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine - Gorbal Vasil Mikhailovich and Chikal Adam Vasilovich. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and success. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on March 17th. Thirteen issues of the agenda were considered: five bills and sixteen draft regulations. As a result, two laws and one code were passed in general, and fourteen decrees were adopted. Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will inform you of the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies - Bičkova Sergia Anatoliyovich, Žizka Sergia Andrijaovica, Kozachenka Alexija Alexiyyovich, Omelchenka Aleksandra Alexandrovič, Ryabikina Pavel Borisovič, Slabenka Sergija Ivanovič, Topolova Viktora Semenović, Filakovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovič, Sklar Vladimir Borisovich and Spiga Fedor Ivanovič - to the composition of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenka Vitalija Fedorović, into the Ukrainian People's Party's Party. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I hereby declare the dissolution of the House of Representatives. On March 18, 2004, it left five Ukrainian national deputies. Yes, respected colleagues, in line with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to make suggestions, requests, applications, and messages to the people’s deputies. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, the parliamentary questions that have come will be announced. A request was received from the Ukrainian national deputies: Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the preservation of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities. [[SIDE, SHERSHOON, ALEXIUK]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Wide, Shershun, Alexiyuk for the preservation of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities. [[10:07:05]] For-144 Request not supported. Alexander MASSENKA to the President of Ukraine for the annulment of Presidential Decree No.33 of 15 January 2005 concerning the release of the judge of the Orzic District Court of Poltav district of Yuhimovic by state of health, while the Supreme Council twice refused to agree on his appointment as judge on an uninterrupted basis. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:47]] For 230 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:09]] For 252 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Yuri Boyka to the President of Ukraine for the replacement of the presidential honorary party of the Russian emperors for the single-minded Cossack Jurassic days of Bogdan Hmelnick. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:47]] For-97 Request not supported. Alexander Pecklusenka to the President of Ukraine on the environmental situation that has resulted from the submerged areas of the province of Vilnius and declared them a disaster zone. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:20]] For 228 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:42]] For the 250. The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Vladimir PETREN to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the gross violation of the law on television advertising and radio broadcasting. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister to delay resolving the issue of even financing in 2005 of construction and housing for military personnel. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of veterans of the Great Homeland War with a crinkled balloon gas. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister on the financing of the relocation of families from submerged households in the villages of Chátnikove and Orlánka in the area of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the implementation of emergency reconstruction and the first-line measures to prevent the dam from breaking into the area of Sasik Sivas Lake. VICTOR BORSTEVSKI TO THE Prime Minister on the increase in funding for the Radiation and Social Protection Programme of the people of Yellow Water. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the cessation by military and financial officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the violation of the constitutional rights of retired members of the military and the members of the military and chief of internal affairs bodies for social protection as a result of the illegal refusal to recalculate pensions. Vladimir ÍŠENKA and Omelyan PARUBKA to the Prime Minister on the problems with municipal services in Smila Cherkas region. Igora ŠAROVA to the Prime Minister for the destruction of lands in the territory of the Ingula Rural Council of the Province of Kyrovograd. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Prime Minister for additional benefits to the participants in the fighting. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the retirement of retirement pensions by the age of the inhabitants of Kirovgrad. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds for the villages of Sulimivka and Little Starica in the Kyiv region of Borispil. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister on the illegal alienation of the hospital complex of the Suma Central District Hospital. VICTOR BORSTEVSKI TO THE Prime Minister for the support of the Eastern mining and enrichment unit of the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region. Igora ŠAROVA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Smoline and the village of Breezovka Malovskiv district of Kirovograd. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, in connection with the massive violations of the constitutional right to housing of members of the Somali garrison and the improvement of the moral and psychological climate in their collective, the provision of adequate conditions for rest. Bogdan Kostinjuk and Alexander ČORNOVLENK to the Prime Minister on the need for a more active integration policy in Ukraine in the European Union. Victor ZAICKA to the Prime Minister regarding the granting of a subsidy from the State budget to compensate for the loss of Sevastopol's land-based budget, as a result of the deployment in his territory of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. Ms. Vladimir JENKA and Ms. Omelyan PARUBKA to the Prime Minister regarding the address of students of the Cerka National University of Bogdan Hmelnicky for the purpose of ending the moral and political terror against the Rector of the University. Ms. GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister to simplify the procedure for the annual drafting of the Cabinet of Ministers regulations on cooperation with the SND countries. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister for the promotion of public interests in energy-efficient companies. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister about the extension of loans to agricultural producers. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the Prime Minister for amendments to Cabinet Order No.999 of 8 September 1997 “For the approval of the procedures for the provision of disabled persons by cars”. Alexia BABURIN to the Prime Minister for the adoption of Cabinet Order No.1631 of 15 October 2003 in accordance with legislation. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister for the purpose of underestimating the value of products from the Lutsky factory by the State Property Fund during privatization. Mr Paul MUTCHANA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Zaichinci in the Seminovian region of Poltava. Oleg TJAGNIBOK to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service for the Destruction of Geodetics by Heads of the State Committee on Natural Resources, the illegal privatization of property in the field and the persecution of experts who protest the destruction of the industry. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the appropriateness of the position occupied by the Head of the Romanian District State Administration of the Žitomir Region, Yasinski. [[DOMANIAN, HORBACHOV, AND OTHERS]] Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister for the inadmissibility of the closure of the only medical facility in the city of Ilovysk Donetsk. Mr. Stanislawa Kosinova to the Prime Minister for amendments to Cabinet Order No.257 of 4 March 2004 concerning the number of posts that gives rise to the appointment of scientific pensions. Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice for the non-inclusion of war veterans in the list of taxpayers who are exempt from the payment of taxes on the income of natural persons when receiving a solid fuel payment. Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for investigating the corruption of officials involved in the illegal construction of a residence in Chernig, 58th Street. Valentina Seminyuk to the Prime Minister for the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens who exercised the powers of members of election committees in the Lower Gora region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Valery ACOPIAN to Prime Minister, Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the State Property Fund for the establishment of a commission to investigate the causes of the crisis of the state-owned stockholding company, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, Mikolayev. Lesya THANJUKA to the Prime Minister on the form of property ownership in the region of Medjugorje, Kiev. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Prime Minister on the legality and relevance of the issue by the Antimonopoly Committee of the permission of Cosmor Holding Limited of the State of Cyprus to purchase more than 50% of the shares of the closed stock company Magnius. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of solid fuel to the mining categories of the population of the Podil region. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister for bringing the “Beautiful Mountain” Memorial to its proper place in Eupatoria, the place of mass execution of the inhabitants of the city during the Great Homeland War. JANUARY to the Prime Minister about the violation of the rights of teachers of the public education school No. 18 of Simferopol of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the problems of gasification of certain areas of Hersonian. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decree in the part concerning the construction of a gas pipeline to the village of Constantine in the province of Ravenna. Alexia KOZACZANKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Fuel and Energy on the gross violation of the Odessablanergo Energy Company by the Ukrainian Electricity Act and the critical state of Odessa with the provision of electricity. Groups of National Deputies to the First Deputy Prime Minister on the illegal activity of the Director of Kyiv Aviation, Oleg Shevchenk, and the embezzlement of the assets of the enterprise. [[BONDARENKO, CARMAZIN, PHILENKO, AND OTHERS]] Mr Vladimir Ljećenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the provision of information on the procedure for the recalculation of pensions to former staff members of statistical offices. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to Deputy Prime Minister Roman Immortal about the anticipated changes in the local self-government system. Mr Bogdan Kostinjuk and Mr Alexandre ČERNOVLENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Oleg Rybauk for the promotion of Ukraine's integration into the European High Technology Market. Yurya FOYKA to Vice-Prime Minister Mikola TOMENK for filling in with Ukrainian content when reviewing the Book of Memory of “Immortal Immortality”. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Attorney General on the facts of the release and implementation of inadequacy by a limited-liability “Dnipropharma” society and its failure to comply with effective legislation. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney-General on the restoration of the legality and protection of property rights and interests of the cooperative “Umánska Cannery” and “CEV” companies. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General on the 2004 presidential compliance test by “Inter”, “Ukraine”, 1+1”, UT-II Ukrainian legislation in connection with the broadcast of rollers aimed at fuelling interethnic hostility, the humiliation of national and human dignity. Victor HORBAČOVA to the Attorney General, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, for the verification of the contract for the reconstruction of the Cremencuccia oil refinery between the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, of the closed stock company Ukratatnafta and the corporation. Mr. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the investigation of the violation of human rights by law enforcement officials in Odessa. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General for the decision of the Amurosian District Court of the Donetsk Region concerning the compulsory acquisition of “Will” from the open stock company in favour of a private entrepreneur. Valery OF THE LABEDIV AND YURIA OROBIA to the Attorney-General, Head of the Kharkiv District State Administration, on the grounds that there is no reply to the parliamentary question about the legality of the decision of the Attorney-General of the District of Kharkiv to refuse a violation of a criminal case on the grounds that law enforcement officials have been prevented from carrying out pre-election measures. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney-General for the unlawful promotion of certain directors of the Attorney-General’s Office for the appointment of Shakah as Prosecutor of the Zaporozhye Region. Alexia BABURIN to the Attorney General about the delay and bias in the civil case of a citizen named Sergio Trojanovsky, the Melitopol City Court of Zaporozhye. Paul KACHAURA to the Attorney General’s Office on the abuse of office and the use of State budget funds in his own self - interest by the head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Vinnitsky region of Lithuania and the head of the Office for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Vinnitsky region of Osepian. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney-General on violations by the District Attorney's Office of criminal and procedural law in the investigation of a criminal case committed against a Kalinovsky citizen. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Attorney General about the improper performance of his duties by the officials of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Cherkas region and the Prosecutor of the City’s District. JURY KEYKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the prosecution of a number of criminal cases involving violations of electoral law. LUKJANENKA’S lion to the Attorney General for unlawfully receiving a certificate from a member of the armed forces of the Department of Intelligence of the Ministry of Defense. A group of national deputies to the Attorney-General to bring to justice the responsibility of former President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine and other officials for interfering with the activities of the judicial bodies that have caused damage to the State. [[BONDARENKO, JAVOIS AND OTHERS]] Mr. Paul KACHAURA to the Attorney General for the purpose of determining the circumstances of the abuse of office as Head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Vinicki region of Major General Lithuania and the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Vinicki district of Ocepian during the election of the President of Ukraine. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General about the prolonged gravity and the improper investigation of a criminal case involving the mayor of Fastova Vlasenko. Victor LESCHENKA to the Attorney-General for failure by the Prosecutor's Office of the Czernigów Region to instruct the Attorney-General about the organization of a road accident investigation which took place in 1998 with the participation of the resident of the city of Chernigów Trejak. A group of national deputies to the Attorney-General on the rightfulness of a criminal case in the event of an armed attack on the assistant counsellors of the People's Deputies in Dniprogerjinsk. [[BORSCHOVI, ANISIMS, AND OTHERS]] Katerina SAMOLIK to the Attorney General on the investigation of a criminal case violated by the illegal use by officials of a limited company responsible for the “Dnipropharm” industrial model, the right to which the open stock company “Kyivska Vitamin Plant” belongs. Ms. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Attorney General regarding the legality of the actions of the Irsavsky District Attorney’s Office of the Zakarpatsk Region. TO THE Attorney General’s attention on the facts of illegal housing allocation to some of the members of the internal affairs agencies of the Volin region. Valérie Lebedevsky to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the inappropriate response to the petitions concerning the obstacles to the exercise by citizens of the right to elect the President of Ukraine as a member of District Election Commission No. 70 of District Electoral District No. 223. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General for interfering with the activities of the Independent Association of Open Shareholders of the Orsick Sugar Company. People of Kirichenko to the Attorney General on the pressure of the City of Ivano-Frankow on the Solidarity Foundation. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General on the verification of the legality of the issue of licences and the right to speak by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio channels “Kievska Rus”, “Television Information Service”, “Multi Media Service”, “Ukraine”, “TET”, “Inter” and “1+1”. TO THE Attorney -General, Minister of Environmental Protection, Minister of State for Disasters of Forest Destruction in the Bojar Forest Conservation Zone. Mr. KULCHINSKI to the Attorney-General for the results of the audit of the financial and economic activities of Poltavski Mishquikonkom. Paul RABIKINA to the Attorney-General on the investigation of the traffic accident by the District Attorney of the Winnitsk Region. Aleksandra MOROZA to the Attorney-General on the systematic inaction of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the theft of property of the local community of the City of Chernigiv region. Vladimir NOVAK to the Attorney General regarding the situation that resulted in the repayment of debts to the company “After the production of animal production” of the city of Poloné Hmělnický district. Alexia BABURIN and Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Attorney General on the investigation of the beating of the former head of the Open Shareholder Society Poltavablanergo. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the appointment of the Chief of the Mikolai district office of the Ministry of Interior in the Lviv region. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on providing information on the total number of pensioners — former employees of local self-government bodies who retired by January 1, 1994. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding tax evasion and the legalization of the income of the Ukrainian-German closed-circuit association Grafia-Ukraine. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Ministry of Finance for allocating funds for completion of the construction to the administrative building of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Poltav region. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison for Obstacles to the Legal Activities of the Union of Free Railway Workers by the head of the South West Railway and the head of the Locomotive depo Kyiv-Pasažirski. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Ministry of Culture and Arts to improve the content of the curriculums of music institutions and eliminate discrimination in teaching on Ukrainian folk music instruments. Eugene LAPINA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on insufficient funding for the Department of Internal Affairs in Sumskia. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister of Economics and European Integration on the transfer of the road in the town of Vinograd from the city council balance to the road service in the Zakarpatsk region. WITNESSES to the Minister of Fuel and Energy regarding the debt to the Sevastopol nuclear power plant in front of the “Parus” construction plant. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the search for the debtor and the enforcement of the court’s decision. Anatoly of the Domansk Ministry of Defence, Head of the Security Service for the Abuse of Officials for the Sale of Property of the Airport in the village of Levkovk of the Izum district of Kharkiv district and for the groundless closure of criminal proceedings in the matter. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Ministry of Culture and Arts on compensation for the payment of municipal services to employees of the cultural establishments of the Region of Poltava. Mr Veacheslav KOVLA and Mr Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Finance, on the planning of the investment of funds for the financing of the international science and technology programme. To the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Head of the Pension Fund, the Minister of Health for Social, Medical, and Retirement Services of the Armed Forces. Paul MATIWIENKA to the Minister for Emergency Situations regarding the provision of information on the implementation of the social security program that resides in areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of an accident at Chernobyl’s AES, a natural gas. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI to the Ministry of Health for the collective appeal of voters in the 35th constituency, a number of public organizations, medical personnel, and members of the Nicolaus City Council for the provision of medical equipment to hospitals in the city of Nicopolá. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of medical care to the children of the Mikolai district of Lviv. BORISA HOT TO THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERNAL CASES OF THE INSTRUMENT OF THE INSTRUMENT AND THE VIOLATION OF THE OFFICE OF THE MINISTRY OF THE MINISTRY OF THE MINISTRY OF THE INLAND INSTRUMENT IN THE POLTAVA REGION. Mikhail RODIONOVA and Vladimir ĆENKA to the Ministry of Education and Science on the integration of the “Photoprelade” science and production complex in Cherkasa into basic enterprises for the development and manufacture of technical teaching tools. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the ambiguous application of the rules of effective law by the central executive authorities in the matter of taking into account the civil aviation aircraft’s benefits. Oleg BILORUS to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for Recalculation and Retirement from 1 January 2005 to veterans and invalids of the Great War and participants in hostilities in Afghanistan. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the delay in investigating fraud. GEORGIA BUIKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the clarification of the appointment of Associate Professor Yakimenko’s scientific pension. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Minister of Agricultural Policy for Dissatisfaction of the response to the request for repayment of the debt on wages to the workers of the sugar plant of the village of Kirikowka Sumsk district. Ms. SCHEVČUKA and Mr. Andrija ŠKILA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on the situation that has arisen around private lands on the Ukrainian-Slovak border. LUKYANENKA to the Secretary of State for the Legality of Appointments in the Luhansk District State Administration, performed by the Head of the Danilov Administration. Lesya THANJUKA and Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council on human rights violations in the Kirovograd Detention Unit No.14. Dmitry RUDKOVSKH to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration regarding the efficiency of the use of State budget funds allocated to the financing of construction and reconstruction of Uzin’s municipal areas. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the head of the State Administration in connection with the allocation of gasification funds in the village of Johnopil of the Great region of the Žitomir region. Mr. Yuri Shirka and Mr. Alexander HUDIM to the head of the Security Service, the Attorney-General, Vice-Prime Minister Mikli Tomenka on manipulation of the historical values of the Central State Historical Archive of Ukraine in the city of Lviv. To the head of the Herson State Administration, the Herson City Head, to solve the social problems of veterans. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the head of the Security Service, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney General on the threat of national security in the use of the so-called “Major Melnick records” as an instrument of political blackmail and influence on the governance of the state. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE HEAD OF THE LIVING REGIONAL GOVERNMENTS FOR THE GASING OF THE SCHOOL AND THE STREET OF VAKULENČUKA IN MLI KOROVINCI, THE STRAIGHT OF THE ZHITOmir Region. OSKI and GREGORY BONDARENKA to the head of the Regional Department of the Kyiv State Property Fund for the provision of services to the Kyiv Interdistrict Court of Appeal and the Commercial Court. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the head of the Supreme Court, the head of the Supreme Court of Criminal Procedures for a new investigation into a case that was violated and dealt with against a citizen of Jadhan. Mr. KULCHINSKI to the head of the General Audit Authority for the conduct of the financial and economic audit of the Poltavski Mesquikonkom. Leonida Vernigor to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities for the Burning of Houses on Rheukomiwa Street in Kharkiv. OSKI and Anatolia MOCROUSOVA to the head of the State Tax Administration for the provision of a service space to the Kyiv Interdistrictal Court of Appeal and the Economic Court. Groups of National Deputies to the Director of the Black Bill nuclear power plant, on providing information on the company's procurement of goods, jobs and services, at the expense of international technical assistance for the construction of staff training and rehabilitation centres. [[MOCROUS, JUSTICE, AND OTHERS.]] Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Environmental Protection, Head of the Lviv District State Administration for preventing the construction of a filling station in the city of Broda between the streets of Everyienowski and Semibotka, the removal of threats to human health and the environment. Anatoly of ORJAHOV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of social protection of persons with disabilities by sight. Mary MARKUS to the Deputy Minister of Justice of Shupeń for gross violation of the terms of enforcement of the decisions of the courts in the Zakarpatsk region and forging the court’s decision. Mary MARKUS to the minister of Ukraine in youth and sports about giving notoriously false information to the Office for Physical Culture and Sports of the Zakartat region on providing financial assistance to the district body of the Spartacus Cultural Organization and on providing such assistance. VICTOR MIRONENA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to abolish the illegal order of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine No. 312 from 15.4.2004. VICTOR MIRONANKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to abolish the illegal order of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine No. 312 from 15.4.2004. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's hard-fuel border rates, in fact the costs of granting them to the civil and housing categories. MICHELLA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of a gas pipeline to the villages of the Sarnin district of the Great. , the Buteans, the Virka, located in the 30-mile zone of the Plain Atomic Station. Oleg BILORUS and Viktor Teren to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City Administration, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for an unjustified increase in the rent for education at the University of Kiev. Igora ŠURMI, Yuhim FIXA, Vladimir ZAJI to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Minister of the Interior, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the laundering of dirty money by companies controlled by Dustenk, as well as the pressure exerted by law enforcement authorities and the leadership of the Supreme Council Committee on the fight against organized crime, corruption at Watt Neptune City of Odessa. [[over 400 million dollars]] Igora ŠURMI, Yuhim FIXA, Vladimir ZAIJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the rightfulness of mass evictions on the street of families with children, children with disabilities and orphans from a group on the street of Surikova, 5 on the basis of the VAT application of the Leninska Kusna factory. [[The City of Kiev]] Mikhail KOSIVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the privatisation of the State Sublease Plant No. 30 in the town of Shahtarsk Donetsk region and on the state-wide reprivatization programme. Thus, honourable national MPs have made 134 parliamentary inquiries. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 33, Communist faction - 34, "Regions of Ukraine" - 9, The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 4, "One Ukraine" - 6, Democratic Initiatives - 1, People's Democratic Party, "Republic" - 2, People's Party - 7, Socialist Party - 13, Block Timoshenko - 8, Union - 2, Center - 2, Democratic Ukraine - 6, Postfraction - 7. [[united]] Please give the names of the national MPs who have entered for the presentations, the announcements, the messages, the requests. Lejko Grigorovich Lukyanenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko 30 minutes, Your Honor, to the show. Levka Grigorovich Lukyanenko, please. Prepare Alexander Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u2	Dear Head, thank you. The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, head of the Association of Starving Researchers in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2003, Ukraine celebrated the 70th anniversary of the great famine of 32-33 years, and a committee led by Prime Minister Kinach was set up to organize it. Then this committee headed Janukovic. With the appointment of the new Prime Minister, I think that Mrs. Timoshenko should lead this committee and, I think, she should call it for further work. Now, a little bit about the work being done, there was Parliament, as you know, hearings and special sessions on this subject. It is decided: First, to build a monument, secondly, to create a museum of famine and thirdly to create centres for studying the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. The Supreme Council in its documents has repeatedly called the tragedy a genocide, but we have not created such a separate document with you. Ukraine's diplomats had the task of having the United Nations adopt a resolution on the recognition of Ukraine as a victim of a 70-year-old genocide. Russian diplomacy has been extremely opposed and Ukrainian diplomacy has failed, unfortunately. In Kiev there is a contest for a better monument and it is good. Next, there's a four-story building on Three Saints Street, where two floors are designed to create a Center for the Study of the Genocide of the Ukrainian Nation and two floors for the Museum. Not only is it not done, but it is not even started. By the age of 70, a film called "The Hour of Darkness" had been created. The Association of Starving Researchers in Ukraine put him up for the Chewchenk Prize. On February 9th, there was a screening of a film with the participation of the President of Ukraine, and the President twice spoke and gave a high-quality assessment of this film, and no one criticized him for his artistic, let's say, lack of quality. However, 07.02. The National Awards Committee, in contrast with the National Awards, awarded five literary awards and no cinematographers and theatre arts. I'm addressing our distinguished president. Dear Mr. President, remembering the great tragedy, do not allow this injustice to occur. Five literary awards are too much, and not a single film that really matters so much is unfair. Please correct this error. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u3	Alexander Bondarczuk gives the right to speak to Anishim, a faction of Communists. Please, your word. Prepare Drachewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u4	Anisim, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. On 5 March this year, a fully armed attack was launched in Dneprodžinsk, downtown Lenin Square, on the Communists of Agitators. The attackers, fighters from a nationalist organization, attacked two agitators six times, knocked down two slogans, two flags, and shook hands when the citizens came to help our agitators. This is not the first attack on the agitpost that has been working in Dneprodijnsk for almost 8 years now. After the first attacks on the Agitpost, he only worked with the assistant consultants of the Ukrainian people's deputies. On March 5th, nationalist militants attacked counsellors, one of whom was injured, according to a police report, with a sharp object. After the fighters fled the square, breaking two slogans and stealing two red flags, they were detained by the DNP in an attempt to burn the red flag. Criminal proceedings have been initiated following the attack, and investigations are under way. You could put a point on that. But just yesterday, it became clear that the criminal case had been closed by the prosecutor's office. Under pressure from our Ukrainian deputies, the Prosecutor's Office has taken a criminal decision to close the criminal case of an armed attack on the assistants of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. Even removing the moral factor of this event, namely the burning of the red flag, the flag under which our fathers and grandfathers broke the back of the fascist beast. By removing this flag, because our prosecutor's office is, unfortunately, out of morale, even by removing this sanctity, we have a criminal offence that has been closed for political reasons, because it is above the laws of our State for those who are in power today. Thus, we can argue that despite Kuchma's departure, coochmanoids continue to rule Ukraine. The “new” old policy continues, criminal cases are closed by “new” old prosecutors. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is strongly protesting the sudden withdrawals of the inhumane nationalist ideology, the rule of law that reigns in our country, the continuing policy of falsifying our society. [[From the word "fascism."]] And another announcement. On 19 March, we invite all of us to the Independence Against War stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u5	The National MP Drachewski gives Bondarenko Grigori Ivanovich the right to speak. Please, Gregory Ivanovich. Prepare Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u6	Gregory Bondarenko, electoral district 92, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. It's getting warmer in the yard, more sun, more people are looking forward to it. It's springtime. And many farmers have grief: they are not ready to sow. In my district, and this is Kyivska, there are full-scale farmers in all areas. They fight, they call, they write, they forget about ethics, but these people can be understood. In the Spiv region, for example, there are nearly 125 farms and forty farms do not have the funds necessary for timely sowing. These people say to me with pain that the fuel prices have doubled and the grains have dropped so much. Once again he let himself be known to the mediator of this cursed one, which we always call him. And the manufacturer suffered and suffered. The Minister's office was obliged by its decision to open up to the farmers credits, lines below 17 percent of the annuals with 10 percent government compensation. But even in Squirski and the nearby Bilocerkow Bank, they're offering loans of between 21 and 23 percent. And that's not all. In captivity, they accept technology for up to five years and houses, and peasants can only provide crops in winter. Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko claimed that the government would go to take possession of the crops this year. Yet the banks don't even want to talk about it. Here, of course, there is a need for well - founded government guarantees and eventually for authority. I will stop because the list of farming differences is endless, and it can be continued for a very long time. One point I want to make is that today the whole state has to start and finish its work day with a view to the spring field. And I want to be heard by the Prime Minister. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, you are the only one who will be able to remove the spring troubles in the village. That's where they're waiting. Please consider this statement as a question to the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u7	Yes, Anatoly Rahansky instead of Anatoly Frost will speak. Prepare Victor Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u8	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Near the State Hall of Saka and the All-Ukrainian Children's Hospital, Eupatoria lies Lake Sasik-Sivaj, which refers to the type of coastal lakes. This lake is a water intake of 1,064 km [1,064 km] of groundwaters and surface waters with an average annual volume of about six million cubic meters [6 million cu m]. A three - foot - [2.5 m] - long [12 km] - long [10 km] dam divides the lake into two parts: the north freshwater and the south - mineralized area of 45,000 square miles [45,000 sq km]. The dam is designed to preserve the raw base of salt production and healing mud, as well as to ensure that water levels fluctuate and mineralize. In connection with a sharp rise in water levels of more than one metre in Lake Sasik-Sivash, the Karaite and the main dams and the coastline are being destroyed, resulting in the flooding of 55 houses in the villages of Ochotnikovo and Orlánka in the Sak district. Dear colleagues, recently on central television, you were able to see this element, which is classified as an extraordinary state importance. In addition, if we don't take the measure immediately, the dam can break through, which will cause the sinking of the railway track and the highways at Saki Eupatoria, the highways of Eupatoria and the resort beaches, the destruction of the stock of mud and mineral resources, the resorts of Eupatoria and Sak. To eliminate the technological and environmental situation, I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers. First, it is urgent to decide to withdraw 995 thousand dollars from the Cabinet of Ministers' Reserve Fund to move 55 families out of flooded houses. Secondly, in order to ensure the execution of emergency reconstruction work and priority measures, to prevent the dam from breaking in and the destruction of the Saxon scab complex, the immediate task is to produce technical documentation and provide the necessary funds for the execution of these works. Tomorrow, at the request of the affected voters, the villages of Ochotnikovo and Orlánka will meet with. At my request this morning, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko, agreed to assign a minister or deputy minister of state of emergency there to study the problem on the spot and make an urgent proposal to eliminate the emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u9	Yeah, thanks, too. Victor Mironenko gives Catherine the right to speak. Please prepare the field instead of Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u10	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Counted days distance us from the great Jubilee, from the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. And on March 16th, the President came to meet with the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Few veterans have lived to this day. The injustices, the injustices, the indiscretions took the lives of thousands of incorruptible, courageous heroes, their hearts. At 11 o'clock on Wednesday at the Bank's Veterans were waiting for a meeting with the President, waiting for 20 minutes, 40 minutes, waiting for an hour, 10 o'clock, and he was gone. And I think, how should we disrespect our living legend, the saint of the saints that remain in our state, our conquerors, our deliverers. And it's all about the blasphemous repetitions that father is also a frontist. But yet the right to mark the Great Victory as the great victory of the great Soviet people we have stood with you, all the healthy forces here in the Supreme Council. True, at the same meeting, the president said that the Company had raised the noise and things like that and didn't kill the whistles in its life. Sorry, you and Kuchma for 14 years have been embezzling what has been created by many generations of peoples. Or maybe today's government was building Zaporoztal, Creebrisstal, mines, the Kahov irrigation system that turned the desert into a flourishing time? No, you didn't kill the star, and you only have one goal and one idea: what else would you sell, which is still unsold? And that's why today, under the authority of nationalists and socialists. And nothing has changed from that: bribes as they were, indeed, the disorder that was, is. Look who's in charge today. People are terrified of those who are assigned to run regions and here are our ministries. Look, it hasn't been a few days since the meeting -- it's already decided that the fares have to be raised. For this to be so, tomorrow, on Saturday, March 19, in Kiev, at the Mayan of Independence, at 2 p.m., we invite all who are concerned to continue the fight for honesty, for justice, for peace in our land. And there's another question that I'm not sure I'm going to be able to explain. We are very often forced to ratify treaties with international organizations. You remember Danielenko standing here on this stand asking us to ratify the agreements. And we were raped. What are the results of his activities? He's on the same team today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u11	Victor Terrence has the word given to him by Eugene Kirilchuk. Get ready for Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear friends! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! There was just this thesis that nothing had changed. Okay, let's finally speak the truth. The government of Yanukovich hid billions of dollars from the people. Hole, proposed. In the budget, it's about 32 billion dollars. And be assured that if this government were, nothing would really have changed. But I'd like to. so that we know and that the Ukrainians know what the government of Julia Timoshenko is doing today and whether it has changed or not. Let me get this straight. Yulia’s government, Timoshenko, balanced the budget. One. And now the standard of living of the people is really rising. Specifically. As Yushchenko promised, the mother’s help at the birth of the child would amount to 8,000 dollars. I want to ask if it's changed or not? The minimum pension goes up to 332 dollars. I want to ask if it's changed or not? And it's going to be differentiated. I mean, there's not going to be an infamous equation. There's increasing assistance to mothers, to disabled people, there's increasing financial security for military personnel, and these changes are felt and felt by everyone, and I want to stress that this is from January 1st of this year. I mean, people are going to get paid. And it's a government that's only been working for a month. And that is, instead of supporting this government, we are saying today that nothing has changed, we are attacking it today, and opposition is forming very successfully. In doing so, my dear people, the opposition is being formed outside Ukraine. What's worth is the fact that there's no one else in the Kremlin like the Odyssey of Dmitri Korczynski, they take Vitrenko and so on in the Kremlin. Please take them, whatever they're called, with everything. They are well - known in Ukraine, but on whom today they rely in the formation of what is called opposition. I'd like to say that it's not just about social pay. No less important is the spiritual aspect of Ukraine’s life. And there's good evidence that today, the first time we have a Ukrainian government, there's going to be a Ukrainian book, there's going to be a Ukrainian book, there's going to be a book that's practically been cleared, there's going to be a normal development of Ukrainian language, and there's going to be other languages, there's going to be a Ukrainian film that's been eliminated and there's some Ukrainian education. And I'd like to specify in 30 seconds what's left over is this village. In Kirovgrad, where the world is famous. The school was the director of Sukhomlinsky, and delegations and guests from around the world are coming to the school today. And when they come to this school, to this village, they see an unrenovated school, they see a broken road, they see puddles in the middle of the village. And all of my references to the past authorities to bring order here have not led to anything. And I would like to take this opportunity to ask the vice-premier of the humanitarian affairs of Tomenka to make an effort to create a national teaching museum in this village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u13	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u14	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! In the near future, we will be considering changes and additions to the Ukraine State Budget for 2005. Hopefully, he'll be socio-directed and balanced. But how can we move forward in this process if the laws that have been passed before are not enforced? As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was asked by the youth council of the multi-million - dollar railway and transport industry of Ukraine to help them defend their legitimate rights and interests with regard to the application of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation on the Income of Persons, in accordance with paragraph 5.3.3. Article 5 of the Law of Ukraine, anyone who has paid for his own education or the training of a member of a family in the first degree of relationship, namely, parents, children, husband, or wife for the benefit of educational institutions, has the right to include such expenses in a tax credit. This means that such amounts are not taxed on the income of individuals. Simply put, the state has made it possible and made a commitment to pay back the fees paid for schooling in 2004 at 13 percent, and I apologize. But to what extent will we make commitments and not fulfill them? Does the executive authorities have the right to do so? What is really going on? And what's happening is that when you try to file an annual declaration in tax inspection, the inspectors in charge just don't accept it. And the motives for not accepting are hard to understand. Now, the main arguments are: "We called Kiev, we were told not to accept declarations," "let's take it a little bit," or "we didn't have any instructions from the area to accept such declarations," you said, "you can't have them," or you can't have them. Many cases where beginners need additional documents that are not provided by the Law of Ukraine or by guidance. From my point of view, this is completely absurd. There is a law, an instruction. There is a sub-legislative act, but it doesn't work. What's that? Unprofessionalism, impudence, or mere haughtiness? Or is it a manifestation of really, the face of today’s authority? Clearly, a problem has arisen that is measured in tens of millions of dollars, but it needs to be solved. Whether the position of the Government is to reach the first April - last deadline for the application of the declaration. Why do tax collectors fail to comply with the Law of Ukraine? Why they ignore their own instructions, approved by the Ukrainian State Tax Inspectorate of September 22, 2003, at number 442 — incomprehensible. In the light of the problem, I have a request for Prime Minister Tim.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u15	Oleg Grigorovich Bilorus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare Proskuratový.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u16	Honorable Presidium, Honourable Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine. Yesterday, the Supreme Council made a constructive decision to review the changes to the 2005 budget. The new budget is to raise the pensions of 14 million pensioners to 332 dollars, that's to raise the minimum wage to 300 dollars, that's a substantial increase in the salaries of teachers, doctors, cultivators, scientists, military workers, that's to raise the support of single mothers to 237 dollars per child, that's a significant increase in the support of disabled children twice. In fact, the new 2005 budget is going to be the first social and popular budget. To support this budget is our shared responsibility and our conscience. I call on all the people's deputies to support this social initiative of the People's Government, because in the 2005 budget we have the opportunity to establish a new level of social norms and the well-being of our suffering people. And the second. It's being proposed by the government to amend the Customs Code on the Group of Foods, group one-twenty-fourth. Consider, for example, the equivalent of meat protein. Today, it is officially 28.5 dollars per kilogram of meat. It's an unacceptable and impossible bet. So the meat goes for a bribe, half a dollar a kilogram. In 2004, half a million tons of meat was smuggled across the border. In 2004, prices for meat increased by 2.5 times, and meat alone is not enough. Today, ten - mile [10 km] - long [10 km] line of fur with this meat. The situation, as we can see, is remarkable. A law needs to be adopted, and the government needs to introduce a quota for meat imports. I believe that the Supreme Council will make this important decision on Thursday and Friday next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u17	Tamara Proskuratov is referring to Igor Shurma. Get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u18	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. I received a letter of appeal signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The following is reported in the letter. I quote. "At the initiative of the Advisory Council on Local Self-Government at the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the governing bodies of the Congress of the Ukrainian and Regional Authorities, the Association of Cities of Ukraine and Communities, the Ukrainian Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the Association of Rural, Rural and Urban Councils of Ukraine on 23 April this year, the holding of the All-Ukrainian Congregations of Local Self-Government in the National Palace of Ukraine is planned." Congregations, as indicated in the letter, are being prepared by the organizational committee for the preparation and conduct of the congregations. According to the letter, it was the organizational committee that defined the representation of one delegate from 26,000 regions, including five delegates from the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district councils of Kiev and Sevastopol. There are clear recommendations on who should be a delegate. I'm quoting again. "Delegates to the congregations are recommended to elect from among the members of the local councils and officials of the local self-government bodies, which extend the powers, guarantees of deputies, rural, village, city heads and representative forums according to the standards of proportional representation of all levels of the city councils of the region." Having absolutely no objection to the holding of the Ukrainian congregations, because problems in the system of local self-government are now more than enough, and they certainly need to be resolved, yet as the Ukrainian national deputy, I would like to get answers to a number of questions that arise after reading this document. That is, the organization committee, who defined its composition, and on what basis does it work? No information on the specified body is available at this time. The order of the day of the all - Ukrainian congregations. Actually, according to the logic of things, order should be given in the letter, at least so that the delegates can understand the purpose of their journey. In addition, those who choose delegates do not need to be specific in order to make informed and adequate choices. And I have a series of, so to speak, practical questions that relate directly to organizational issues. Yes, it is not clear from the request that the cost of the trip is realized, the cost of the trip, and the cost of the trip to Kiev. If these expenses are taken over by an orgcommittee, that's one thing. And if all the burden is translated into local budgets, it's completely different. I also have a question: Who is paying for the rent of the most expensive hall in the National Palace of Ukraine? So I would like to make this clear, and first of all, I ask you to open up the social purpose of this important meeting. I ask you to consider my statement as a deputy request under the name of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u19	Alexander Stoyan is invited to the address, and he is given the right to speak by the National MP Vasiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u20	Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, you will recall that at the end of last year, Victor Pinzenic's Supreme Council accepted a living minimum of 453 bracelets. Victor Yushchenko promised in his pre-election program that one of the first decrees would introduce a percentage of the living minimum to the minimum wage. What does the government now propose in the 2005 budget? He suggests setting a minimum wage for a little over 300 dollars, which is even less than a pension that is now 332 bracelets and has not been paid to our pensioners for three months. So the faction of the "Ukrainen Regions" insists that from January 1, 2005, the minimum wage of 262 dollars per month, 57 percent of the living minimum, from March 1, 340 dollars per month, is 75 percent of the living minimum, and from September 1, 453 bracelets, that's 100 percent. The same offer, I was asked to make a sound, is from the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. This size will help to eliminate the imbalances between the minimum wage, between the minimum pension. And this will be the fulfillment of the responsibilities that Victor Yushchenko has made before the citizens of Ukraine. The second question. Today it's being advertised that, you see, when a child is born, a one-time payment is going to be 20 living minimums -- 8,500. Dear colleagues, what's the score? The payment is paid on a one-time basis by the Social Insurance Fund for temporary disability. And this fund is formed by employers and people of employment, and the government has no relation to it. If this rule is entered. This should certainly mean that there will be no maternity payments, no child care payments, no hospital payments, no funeral payments, no travel expenses for Ukrainian citizens. So if the government wants to do this, that's why it has to be budgeted. Thus, the faction of the regions insists on the following: in the formation of the budget, provide for a minimum minimum wage, minimum pension, payment to families with children, assistance to single mothers, and show it at all costs. Only with this approach will our faction vote for the budget. Moreover, the budget should be budgeted according to the living minimum for housing subsidies, the population’s income index. This is going to be real, not populist. So you have to show the state budget in every position, not at the expense, let's say some other fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u21	Yes, Your Honor, the time for the speech is up. I ask the Secretariat to prepare an appropriate commission for the proposals made by the National Deputies. Attention, Your Honor, let's move on to issues in order. These meetings are scheduled for today. A draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 is being tabled. We need to include this in the agenda. [[on the financing of the 2005 Euro-Employment Competition]] So, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukraine Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2005". [[on the financing of the Euro-2005 competition]] Registration number 7185. Please vote. [[11:10:21]] For 309 Decision taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 66, Communists - 45, "Regions of Ukraine" - 37, People's Party - 26, SPU - 25, Block Timoshenko - 17, "One Ukraine" - 13, SDPU - 2, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, "Will of the People" - 10, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, "Soyuz" - 11, "Centre" - 2, "NDP-Republic" - 3, "Postfractional" - 8. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now read out the proposal for a regulation on this matter of the Budget Committee. The Budget Committee thus suggests that for a three - minute report, the answer to a question to a reporter is three minutes, for a co-report and for a question to be answered for a co-rapporteur — three minutes, and for a discussion and a decision to be made — five minutes. Maybe at least let's write 12 minutes? Is there no objection? Well, please. Deputy Finance Minister Matthew Vladimir Makarovich is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! As you know, in May of this year, Ukraine will be hosting the 50th Euro-2005 Song Contest. In view of the significant impact of the said competition on the positive image of the state, Ukraine must take all necessary steps to carry out it at a high level. In this regard, and taking into account the importance of the competition, a considerable amount of material and financial resources is needed for its preparation and implementation. Ukraine's 2005 State Budget Act provides 30.8 million dollars for this purpose. In the process of preparing for the competition, it became clear that it could not be carried out at an appropriate level within the defined amounts of expenditure, since there were currently no appropriate technical capabilities in Ukraine to meet the requirements for the competition. After comprehensive processing of the National Television’s proposals, the cost of preparing and conducting the competition was approved, according to which 104 million dollars were needed for its preparation and execution. The sources of the expenditure covered are the following: the state budget costs are 67 million dollars; the European language community costs are 22.7 million dollars; the ticket costs are 5 million dollars and the sponsors are 9.5 million dollars. In view of what has been said, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced a draft law amending the State Budget 2005 Act with the aim of increasing the expenditure on the programme by 36.2 million dollars. This increase in the costs of the competition is proposed to ensure that the expenditure provided for the Ministry of Finance is reduced. The proposed bill is balanced and does not balance the budget this year. In view of the above, the government is asking you to adopt the bill today, because it is essential to start funding those works for the preparation and the holding of the competition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u23	Yes, dear fellows, is there a question? Please sign up for the questions. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Chubarov's reaction, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u24	Volodymyr Makarovich could talk a lot about whether it's advisable or unnecessary to increase spending and it's for Eurobending, when we have a lot of pressing problems, but at the same time, I realize that sometimes some countries spend a lot more to prove, to present their country and things like that. Europlacing is such a wonderful opportunity for just the world to get to know Ukraine even more. But I have a different question. We're spending it on organization. Or are we making money in other areas, because there's going to be a lot of people coming, and there's organizations, and there's taxes. So how can you say that the amount that is going to be the profit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u25	Thank you for the above question. I agree with you that there are certainly some problems in financing some of the costs that we're going to try to solve in the specified budget figures. As to what you said, whether we're making money in this West, I would like to stress once again that direct revenue from the European-speaking community for this move is 22.7 million dollars; from ticket implementation it's direct revenue, it's going to be 5 million dollars; we also have proposals from sponsors and we expect 9.5 million dollars to come. As for the other arrivals that will come from the arrival here of a very large number of tourists, participants in this competition and so forth, we certainly did not directly calculate them, but these are very significant costs that will be thrown into our economy, into the incomes of those businesses that will serve: hotels and so on. Unfortunately, I can't give a total number.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u26	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u27	Radios, Communist faction. Tell me what this funding means at Minfin's expense. And I ask you to pass the word to Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u28	As I said before, we're going to cut the cost of funding the various programs of the Ministry of Finance. This is about the programs of a capital character, and we're predicting a reduction in the cost of maintaining our educational institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u29	Volodymyr Makarovich, I'm here. Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Tomorrow, Kabmin will accept the budget changes. Why are you in a hurry? There's 31 million in the budget today. Let the Treasury pay for the articles that need to be paid today is the first. Secondly, I'd like the taxpayers to know how these 104 million sing, what's the main story of the cost of the asset.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the song competition will be held in mid-May. But in order to set up the venue for the competition, in order to set up all the places where official delegations would be located, we needed to do the cost not today, but yesterday. That's why we're in such a hurry with the bill. And we'd like to, so a bill that would relate to the refinement of the state budget, it would be considered by the Supreme Council, it would be introduced in a fixed order -- and this is all a delay in time. We have very little time left, and we ask that we accept it. With regard to the expenses for this competition, you said: What are the biggest costs for this purpose? So what I'm trying to say is that we've submitted to the Supreme Council an appropriate resource from which we can see. For example, these costs include design, manufacture, installation, and scene functionality. So it's too much of a cost to make. They're going to be there, like, 10 million dollars. Production planning, installation of lighting management, is a special lighting, so that there can be broadcasts around the world. So it also takes over 15 million dollars and so on. So I could call these expenses, but once again, I want to point out that the estimated cost, it's agreed with the Ministry of Finance, and for operational and such information, when Turkey was running a competition with itself, they spent over $60 million on it. We cannot afford such expenses. That's why the Ministry of Finance cut, practically, 30% of those costs and predicted only the minimum costs. And I'm growing up to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u31	Yes. Thank you. Time's up. Please sit down, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Konovaluk Valerius Illich is the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Budgets discussed the matter at its meeting. And I also want to let you know that we've moved on once, because no cost has been spent on this, preparing and holding a song competition called "Europe." But the bill, which has been introduced, proposes to increase the expenditure of the State Budget to the Committee of Television and the radio broadcasting of Ukraine by 36 million dollars. This year there is funding of 30.8 million dollars for Euro-2005 in Ukraine. The increase in expenditure, as reported by the representative of the Ministry of Finance, is due to reduced expenditure on the training of staff to finance the system of higher education institutions at the III-IV level of accreditation of the Ministry of Finance. The committee supported it, and we probably couldn't make another decision, because for Ukraine, it's a really important and vivid event to do "Europe." And we have to demonstrate not only to the whole world, but also to the whole public that Ukraine is, indeed, a flowering, developed, democratic state, which is, in fact, probably at this competition and will be singing representatives of Ukraine a song called "We Do Not Get Over", but in order for the whole world to see that, indeed, we can conduct this move at a high level. But I want to add another. Dear colleagues, we do have a cost resource. And in my opinion, the Ministry of Finance needs to take an extra look at the legal escort issue, and the total cost is a million 333 thousand dollars, almost a million dollars in insurance. And I think that some insurance companies might be able to provide this kind of sponsoring aid without exception. I don't understand why renting and preparing a venue, the Sports Palace, which is going to run this competition, is going to get almost 10 million dollars when these measures involve serious and construction work, restorative work, the development of a telecommunications network, the creation of a computer network, and so on, what's left in the Sports Palace. So we should probably go to the Ministry of Finance again and personally to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so that you can give such an order to the House of Accounts, so that it can check these costs and provide the National Deputies with some information for two weeks, how effectively this money will actually be used. Because the increase in expenses is double, then the question arises: How did we plan then, and who will be responsible? But the attitude toward national money, it must be really very responsible for every penny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, is there a question for Valery Illich? Please sign in. On the board the name of the national MPs please give. Paul Kachur, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u34	Valery Illich, I haven't been able to ask the Deputy Minister of Finance this question. I'd like to make it clear to you. So today, really, the bill is filed within the balance sheet, it doesn't increase the spending. And of course, for political reasons, and yesterday, this is confirmed on the Budget Committee, we have to give a first signal that we support this action, and it's important to Ukraine. But please specify where the spending article reduces the funding of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u35	Thank you, Paul Stepanovich. I will really re-enact to the national MPs that the committee unanimously supported this proposal. These costs are reduced by funding the educational institutions of the third, fourth, level of accreditation in the preparation of financial professionals. So this proposal is balanced. But the question of using these funds, I think, should still be more encouraging to increase funding at the expense of the sponsors, at the expense of the advertisers, at the expense of the measures that will actually generate additional revenue from this competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u36	Gregory Ponomarenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u37	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Valérie Illich, you and I have seen at the last meeting of the budget committee that this facility is tax, the Academy of Tax, the Ministry of Finance facilities are three to four times over-funded, and that money needs to be taken off. You said and the deputy said - 15 million. Illumination. Now it's about one of the firms, it's a Swedish firm, it's going to cost five million more to do this, so I agree with you that the accounting room should check that out, and I think there's millions of 20 that can be reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u38	Thank you for asking, Gregory Grigorovitch. Once again, I want to say that we shouldn't, and now we're demonstrating that we can make some money at this expense. This is a state-wide action that really needs to be funded and controlled by appropriate structures in a way that we're almost part of this money to provide for those children's creative groups that are going to serve this industry. And once again, I would like to point out to you, people's deputies, that the committee is asking to support the government's proposal and increase funding for Euro-2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u39	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u40	Valery Ilich, I have neither you nor our colleagues, that this event should be financed. The only wish is for this to be the financing of a country of public art, not a specific political power. We therefore very much ask the Committee to study carefully all expenditure items. That's the first one. And the second. All we're talking about now is funding, anyway, has to be linked to the village. And even this question I want to use and address to you and our colleagues. The village is dying, as our colleagues say. We need to do everything we can to help and support our Ukrainian village today. There's our main songs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. However, I also want to turn to you, Vladimir Makarovich, and there will be a very high level of gratitude if you can not only spend on a high level, and some institutions to the government are Euroworking, but if you can still save some of the state funds, because you also have the reserve costs that 6 million 800,000 dollars are planned for, and you can direct these funds to the needs of the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u42	Yes, the time is up, Valérie Illich, thank you, sit down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Names of the National Deputies please on the sign-up sheet. Catherine Seminalic, please. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u43	I'll talk to the audience after an hour. And now I would like to make that point. Of course, Vladimir Makarovich, who was very proud of me, really had to deal with all these issues together. You don't have to take it off. Because we have, you know, this kind of practice: if a MP's initiative, it can take months not to consider and make negative decisions, but if it's a Kabmin, some interests, that's why we're reacting to it right now. Of course, "Europe" as the main step of the new era has great support for advertising agencies, the media, and for a fellow, talented Ukraine, this is indeed an event, because our beautiful people, even living very modestly, without having a job without hope for a better life, have a talent, love our native Ukrainian song, because it also has a philosophy of life, and joy, and sorrow, and faith, and love, and hope, and the soul of our Ukrainian people. And I was sure of that when we, the All-Ukrainian Union of Women Workers for the Future of the Children of Ukraine, together with the Communist Party of Ukraine, held the All-Ukrainian Talents of the Multi-Children Competition. I was amazed at what stars we had discovered on the creative skyscraper of Ukraine’s many - year - old families. These little talents of Ukraine today need only a little support for power, and they will glorify, indeed, the national, normal song of our nation with you. But I'm very sorry, and I think it's not just me that I'm sorry, that our co-conspirator state will be represented by Grinjoles, violinist, wooden sleigh. On Greenjolas to Europe, it's probably going to be the motto of this "Europe" and the representation of Ukraine. But this is a testimony to the high aesthetic taste of the Humanitarian Vice Prime Minister. And so he makes every case of every case a great scandal and a bad thing to Ukraine! But I want to ask you one more question. Dear colleagues and Vladimir Makarovitch, every country earns money at Eurobond, and doubtful aunts and uncles come to us and say, "You have expensive hotels, you have expensive things, you have these, these and these." Are you and I being asked what the price of a hotel abroad is? We have to do everything we can to make money on this Eurocene and the glory of Ukraine, but not the Gringles.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready for Kafarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u45	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, thanks to Ruslani, you have something to discuss. Thanks to the Russians, Ukraine can today invite people from all over the world to show itself around the world. Whether you have to do it or not, or whether you have to spend that kind of money and add 36 million dollars, well, it's clear that we're late for this decision -- we should have made it sooner. I sincerely want to thank the Committee on Budgets for its unanimous position on what needs to be taken, and I fully share its views on what needs to be worked out: and what is happening in the Sports Palace. If it's a stockholder society, because the data on this is kind of a stockholder society, then how -- and I'm told that since 1992, how will the state invest in the core funds, and it won't be allocated the share of these shares. So I would like to ask Attorney General Piscoon, the State Property Fund, for the time being, to answer that question to the entire Ukrainian society. I'd also like you to compare the amounts we're making. Now we're talking about 36 million dollars that are being added. And we're holding a Parliamentary meeting, it's a government submission, it's all being considered so clearly, and we can express an idea where less, where more, where more will the Swedish organization be giving, where else to go. And compare. The sum of 72.5 million dollars, which are one-person railway managers, all of whom are still in office today, is up to 72 million dollars, has been thrown into one of the Artemis Foundations, sort of with the good of the people. So let's listen to the Attorney General's report, where these 72.5 million, now let Mr. Janukovic return them immediately with the company and no questions asked, and we'll have two more of these, that's enough money. This is about counting the money, and counting it seriously. So, honourable national MPs, for those who don't like Grinjoles, I'm going to say that I don't like them either, that they went out in Brazil's mothers, and I don't like the fact that the aesthetic kind of them need a little bit of order, but I like the fact that they sang the anthem of the revolution, and that's the right thing to do. [[I think it'll be fixed.]] The other question is how much more attractive it is, it impresses me, it's understandable, but I don't want to be insulted by the revolution, and I want to say that the words that are, people voted for words, not so much for their execution. And that's understandable. And you and I are voting today for two readings, two readings of this draft changes to the budget. For the first time, he predicts where the brothers come from.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u46	Vladimir Kafarsky, faction of the People’s Party. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, at the 1972 World Congress of Culture in Bulgaria, academic Lichachov said that each culture should contribute to the world’s culture. And the fact that we're going to be going through Eurovision is saying that. Well, I'm sure there's a breakthrough in Ukrainian song culture in the world ahead. If we're talking about this particular matter that we have to make a decision today, I want to say that Turkey spent 18 million euros, and only for television advertising on the day of the festival did it make 60 million dollars. So I'm asking the question so that the money has to be spent. The committees should, in turn, monitor how they are used, but we still need to see clearly what the coming will be, whether or not there will be a process where certain firms will be given some kind of benefit. This money, which will be earned in advertising, on the arrival of guests, should remain with us in the country and continue to finance the development of our culture. When it comes to whether we are considering it in time or not, last October we were told that there is no money. The question was in money. But there is no time for it today. So there's no money, no time. There is still a tremendous amount of work to be done today. And I think the Supreme Council is really going to make a positive decision today. And the last. When Ruslana first appeared on television with her wild dances, in one mountain district, the council of national MPs adopted a resolution condemning her with these wild dances and recognizing her as such that she would disgrace the culture of the Goats. The time has passed, and today the whole world has accepted it. So I wouldn't suggest that we go to the competition in advance to get my opinion on the Grindgels. It'll tell you who they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u48	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u49	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! In May, two events coincide -- the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory and the 2005 Euroworking competition. And I want to draw our common attention to the double standards of the government of capitalist ministers and the bourgeois Dwarf President. Let's think about it with you when we were talking about the 60th anniversary of the victory and the parade in Chrystec, as it was argued that we shouldn't have this parade, as if we had to save money. Finally, after meeting with the veterans, the President agreed that the Veteran movement would be. But right here on Euro-2005, with the questionable content of this Euro-creation, we're looking for extra funds, that's the first. Secondly, I would like to emphasize once again the opacity of the costs that are now being proposed for the preparation of Euro-2005. 10 companies that provide global, sound and stage equipment, as well as design companies, blame the national television company for the opaque distribution of jobs in preparation for this Euro-2005. And in this connection, they addressed the President, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Prime Minister Timoshenko, and the journalists. Here's the question: how do you do it? In addition, representatives of the National Television Company deliberately extend the deadlines for a tender, the interests of certain companies. For example, the Swedish company Spectra says in this particular reference that I mentioned. Spectra services, which NTUCK is lobbying, according to these digs, are almost 1 million euros more expensive than the services of C-light. So I want to support that part of the speakers who've been paying attention to the need to figure out where these extra 36 million dollars are going to go. And the last thesis is on the artistic content of those representatives who are going to be speaking on this Eurocene. Here's how on several websites the content in German is going to be there and they're going to be saying, "Juschenko is me! Juschenko, yes! Juschenko, yes! You're the same Ukrainianer Furer! Yes! Yes! Yes!’ If that's possible, then you don't have to do it at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u50	Dear colleagues. Please, Dry, one minute. One minute, now we're going to write it down, your honor, one minute. Because Dry is written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, in this room in the presence of Ukraine’s political elite, it will be unnecessary to talk about the special strategic importance of carrying out similar measures in Ukraine. It is not a secret that the young sovereign state of Ukraine in the world is known for such performances, by such actions, by the Kyiv Dynamo, by the handball clubs of the Motor, by our Olympics and so forth. It's on the one side. But on the other hand, if we get involved in such a sacred, noble political affair, we have something like Major Melnick's film, we have the disgust of the earrings, of the lie about Ukraine. In order to correct the image, we may need to make extra funding, and we can do this once and for all. But I warn everyone that here in this case we have examples of primitive, rude, cynical politics. If that goes on, I'm sure the session room won't support that kind of thing, if the high-level government officer here from this rostrum will instruct us, insult us and disrespect us. So I think we're going to have to think about where this money is going to go and whether it's going to benefit Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, let's do this, we've still got MPs who haven't spoken. It's simple, if they want to, with one minute's motive to tell. Is there no objection? Please, Eugene Gorenik. Eugene Gorenik wrote down, and then John the Rabbit was written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, we unanimously supported the bill yesterday on increasing funding for this action, and I urge you to vote for it. But I also ask, first of all, not to politicize, and second of all not to insult the people who are involved in this. I heard the same comments last year about Ruslan, and she won this competition. I'm sorry that some of our colleagues are looking at my compatriots from Ivano-Francisco further than the uncles from Polona. Believe me, these people are worthy of a better impression. And they will prove that their people were not wrong. And you'll see. Let's make assessments after this move is over, not be judges, many of us don't understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u54	He doesn't have a John Hare. Igor Shurma, please microphone, faction of the SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u55	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. First of all, I wanted to say that thank God that there are not many of them because they need to be dressed. Because today, Ukraine will be represented by two boys who represent Ukraine but who are wearing Brazilian T-shirts and "Rock-n-Roll." It's really not for Ukrainian culture. As far as funding is concerned, I do not understand why, at the level of senior government, the conditions for obtaining free visas to Ukraine are being created. Those who come here on free visas to Ukraine will say that we have expensive hotels. If that is the case in Ukraine, there is a question: Why is Eurobating here? As far as funding is concerned, it seems to me that we will never support a reduction in expenditure on the preparation of financial system personnel by higher education institutions, even if they are accredited in Minfin. Let's look for another article, involving businessmen. That environment that supported the new government has a lot of money, let's say a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u56	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, it is thought that we must support this bill, although there are two points that I would like to make. The first one. I am absolutely in solidarity with the pro committee, which, in the wake of the first assassination here, said that we should ask for a task and that the Court of Auditors should examine in more detail the effectiveness of the money used. And that's what we have to do. Second. With all my deep respect for those who represent our country, and the colleague here spoke, he said that they, these people, are worthy of the best, absolutely agreeable. But I think that Ukraine is also worthy of better representatives, because when we come to Eurotelevision with representatives, I'm asking for forgiveness, maybe not entirely correct, artistic activity, so I think we have more decent representatives, looking at which to say that this is a country where there are 48 million. And there is a mass of talented and interesting and worthy people. That's why I think, unfortunately, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u58	Yes, Your Honor, Bill 7185 has been discussed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. It is to adopt this bill in the first reading and generally as a law. No warning? I won't. That's why I'm voting on this proposal to the adoption committee in the first reading and as a whole as the bill of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2005". Registration number 7185. Please vote. [[11:46:22]] For 294 The law is passed. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 72, Communists - 47, "Ukraine" - 22, People's Party - 23, SPU - 24, Block Timoshenko - 23, "Ukrainian One" - 11, SDPU - 0, UNP - 20, "Democratic Ukraine" - 14, "Will of the People" - 8, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Union" - 11, "Centre" - 1, NDP, "Republic" - 5, non-fractional - 13. [[I'm reading pros.]] Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u59	But they said it wasn't, but it would take some time for them to reciprocate the system. Dear colleagues! There is one such suggestion, I ask you to listen carefully. We held parliamentary hearings on matters. " The national cinematography: the state, problems and ways of solving them," but we did not accept the recommendations from the parliamentary hearings because we kept putting the issue on hold. On the other hand, there will soon be a gathering of people who are professionally involved in the problems of movies. So maybe we'd accept these recommendations, because they're already coming from one of us. BY AWAKE! [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u60	So the matter of being tired of the report was parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u61	Oh, no reports?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u62	No, it's just a vote, Catherine Seed. Dear colleagues, this document has been distributed to you over and over again. I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, registration number 7175 on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "National Cinematography: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution." Please vote. [[11:48:31]] For 337 I'll take the order. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase the amount of single birth assistance has been announced for consideration. We have four bills: 6528, 6528-1, 6528-2, 6528-4. According to the registration, there will be reports of national deputies Catherine Seminovna Samoylik, Igor Mihajlovich Šurma, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Hare, Valerius Illich Konovaluk, and Bondarchuk Alexander Vasilovich will speak from the committee. From the procedure, please sign in, Your Honor, three minutes. Yes, Yuri Solomatin, please. I'm sorry, that's not what I saw. Yuri Carmazin, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, certainly four projects on such a serious issue are very good for increasing the amount of one-time support for the birth of a child. We've got everything figured out now that we have to finance something. But the four bills report to the people's deputies, reports the Social Policy and Labour Committee, and we can't hear the government's opinion. So I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because there are four bills and because each one of them deals with individual aspects, hears the government's opinion and predicts, and announces now who will speak from the government. What's more, the government officials are sitting here right now: both the minister and the deputy minister. I ask that they also report in general before we discuss the matter. We need to hear the government's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, we are sure that when we consider the draft for first reading, we will listen. And today there is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Hotch Helen Vasilovna. The Cabinet of Ministers appointed her to be responsible for these bills. And we will certainly have an opinion from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Mikhailo Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u65	Communist faction, Rodionov. I propose that all these draft laws be discussed on a full-time basis -- and finally today, this is a painful issue for society, for Ukraine as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u66	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, we are told what is or will be, the changes proposed in the budget, where the amount is greater, and thus other elements will be resolved. But I think that today, as far as the procedure is concerned, we have the right to adopt on first reading, when we discuss the issue, and if there is a commitment made by Kabmin that this will be decided as part of the budget changes, but that we will then take the best of these bills and approve through the budget. But on first reading, I think we have to do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u68	Anatoly Seminoga, please. Microphone, Liulia Block faction Timoshenko, Anatoly Seminoga
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u70	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think there's already been thoughts here, proposals by the people's deputies, that four bills would still be safe if we didn't unite in one, at least, I think it would be a logical decision by the Supreme Council to discuss four, but we'll make one decision at a time, because, well, I don't see the fundamental difference between them, and most importantly, they don't have radical contradictions. So I think if there's some ambition here for authors, they can agree on a joint bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u72	The point is, my dear colleagues, there's a proposal and a committee that I've been looking at. He suggests taking one as a basis, then in the next, when preparing for the second reading, consider other suggestions. That is the logic we have to follow. Now, please let the government express its position, then let's move on to the discussion. Maybe the draft budget will already take into account what we're proposing. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u74	Well, let's see, let's see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, one minute. Why did I suggest that we listen to Helen Vasilovna right now? If they say that the government has already foreseen in the draft budget, and this sum -- one minute -- can be much higher than we suggest, we'll do it this way. Now let's look at, let's take the base of one of the projects, and put it down, let the committee work. If we take the budget and that sum is accounted for, then we cancel our previous decision. To that end, let the Cabinet of Ministers confirm this position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Today, more than ever, the synchronous actions of the government and the Supreme Council to raise the level of social protection of the population, all the bills that you have put in place to raise the level of material security for families with children, we have studied perfectly. We've looked at what's positive about every bill, and we've literally settled it in a government bill that goes in a package with the State Budget Act. One of the drafters of the bill, for example, who is now being proposed to consider it, foresees only increasing aid to uninsured women who do not work. Then there will be working women in a worse situation. The government settled both matters. People’s deputies offer twenty subsistence minimums, ranging from the average adult and child subsistence. The government has offered more than 22, 2 percent of the child’s living allowance. Not only do we want to raise aid but we want to take into account the very many appeals that your voters have made, to give it to the child’s best interests and to consider the interest of such control that money comes to the child’s rearing. So I propose that all of your legislative initiatives be further developed and taken into account during the 2005 budget discussion. There is no doubt that a positive decision will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u77	Vladimir Mikhailovich, one minute, please. Additional expenses. I want to inform you because there are bills. One proposal - July 1st, one proposal - January 1st. In no bill, I understand, undetermined sources of expenditure, and Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan spoke today about the threat and the Social Insurance Fund if you put expenses on the fund. The government has taken this into account in the government bill and provides a grant for this whole state budget fund, which you've been proposing. So the main thing is that we have a desire to decide, and it will be decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the question. So let's think about it this way. How much does it take, like, three minutes to report, right? It's a deal. Yes, yes, we all listen, then we will vote in order of arrival.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u79	I think, Your Honor, Elena Vasilovna, I think we're going to figure out what kind of bill we're going to base on. We're just helping you because you've come up with this idea since the bill was registered. We had to help the President before we made that decision. Today, the social value of the family, its role in education, formation, and personal development must be recognized in society. However, the parental potential of the family is declining because of the poor welfare of the vast majority of families with children, requiring additional urgent measures for the social protection of families. In addition, in a crisis demographic situation, low birth rates, and this is just a necessary step that we should take with you. In view of what has been pointed out, a major factor in the area of social protection for families should be the increase in the amount of help they receive, such as one - time assistance in the birth of a child. My bill provides a one-time aid to 21 living minimum, i.e. 8,883 bracelets at the birth of a child. I want to tell you that this is in line with our decisions with you, the Parliamentary hearing. The author of the bill was Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Where we predicted. It's just that the government and I have to deal with these issues. And what I want to tell you is, we have only 400,000 multi-child families out of 13 million today. Who has three or more children. What conditions do these families face? I just can't tell you enough time, but I'm actually dealing with this problem for the fourth year. There are different families, but the vast majority need to be taught how to share their responsibilities, how to work at home, how to value each copy that is. Whatever the state does as the majority does, the vast majority of families of many children, there has long been prosperity in our country. And that's why we don't deny anything. But I suggest in the first reading that we vote on the bill. I think we're going to figure out, we're wise people here, not stupider than the government, and we're going to keep looking at the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the question is to Catherine Simeonna. Please, three minutes. Sign up. Perhaps that is how we will deal with fellow believers. We're supposed to have a break right now. But since we've been reading for half an hour, over 35 minutes, we've had to make written inquiries, and then we've had half an hour of discussions, we've spent a lot of time, so maybe we wouldn't take breaks, we'd work out these laws that we really need. Is there no objection? Thank you. Then the question to the reporter. Bogdan Kostinuk, your question, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u81	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka Block, Bogdan Kostinyuk Your Honor, are you familiar with the conclusion of the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Please comment on him. And the second question. Today we are considering a number of drafts on this subject, where we are the authors of those political parties that supported the previous government. Your bill, registered on January 21st this year. Tell me, please, to you and to all the successors who will report the bills, where you were before, why didn't you pass those bills under the previous government?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u82	Thank you. The general conclusion is that according to the first reading of the bill, it is appropriate to send for further work. That is, we are advised to accept in the first reading that I believe we will do so with you. I was where you were. And whatever Communists who brought you to the wall with social programs, your candidate would have been presidents, and then the President wouldn't have promised 8,000 more with the first one-time birth of a child. Of course, I give birth to children, and you don't. You don't get it, unfortunately, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u83	Masenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u84	Thank you. Catherine Seminal, I have such a very specific question. Now, as far as you're concerned, you have 21 untaxed at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u85	Reliable.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u86	Reliable. Why, what's 21, not 20, not 25? I think we're going to need some kind of rounder amount. Because what the President said should not be compared to the President. We need to provide and encourage people to actually have children. Because eight thousand, or 21 living minimum, absolutely, we know, in this situation they still will not solve the problem that young families face. So I think we could raise that plank a little bit more, regardless of what the government is offering us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u87	Okay. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, when this bill was being drafted, I invited experts from various ministries so that we could actually calculate this one, you say correctly, this is the minimum need for this woman, for a child who has just given birth. So I didn't take it from the ceiling - 21 living minimum. I invited representatives of ministries, institutions, and we counted. And these people who are dealing with the problems of family and childhood, these are their calculations, and I thank them very much. And as a result of these calculations, I've offered 21 living minimums.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u88	Leonid Isaiah, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u89	Please give the floor to my colleague Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u90	Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u91	Thank you, colleague, for your word. Catherine Seminally, it is very good that you perform the functions of those who promised great money. I want to tell you that it is the government of Yanukovich that has begun to do everything possible to pay off families, single mothers, but he would never have promised such an amount of eight thousand. Why? Because it's going to tear down social policy, and it's going to tear down the entire social fund. So what I want to ask is, Catherine Semina, how many children are born a year? What amount should be paid? You have to say it. And can we pay this off at the expense of social insurance, or do we have to predict this in the budget line? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u92	We're giving birth to 400,000. It's a year for kids. 400 with an extra thousand. It's a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u93	450 thousand. It was born last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u94	450 children are born a year. The sum is calculated, according to what you said, the science department, that's three billion dollars. But what did I come out of? I didn't come out just to make money from the Foundation. The point is, in general, let's put it this way, at some point our statements have to respond to action or not? We remember, and Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, and everyone else said money is. Money piles. But this money needs to be legalized. I offer to do all I can to support this family for the sake of motherhood and childhood. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, dear colleagues, there will be no mother, there will be no child, there will be no life in Ukraine. Support my bill and all the other authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u95	Yes, Catherine Seed, thank you. Time's up. Igor Mikhailovich Šurma, please. Prepare Vladimir the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u96	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The bill, developed by the deputies from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, provides for amendments to article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children and 41 articles of the Ukrainian Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in relation to Temporary Loss of Employment and Expenditures Caused by Birth, to be buried. [[united]] Today, more than ever, Ukrainian society is aware of the social value of the family, its vital role in the upbringing, formation, and development of the child. Sadly, however, it has to be noted that the Ukrainian family today is a social one. in today’s conditions, there is a deep crisis. In recent decades, the number of births in families has declined significantly, and unlike the past two or three times in the family, planning is usually limited to one. Only nine children are born to 10 women. This is much less than it is necessary for the full reproduction of generations. The stability of the population is possible only if 22 children are found in 10 women. The birth rate has declined by 38 percent over the decades, while the mortality rate is rising, and today it is 26.5 percent. As a result, there is a trend towards a sharp decline in the population of Ukraine. If there were 52 million people in Ukraine in the early 1990s, the number of people living in Ukraine has dropped to 47 million today. Family crisis has also caused fragmentation and social degradation. This leads to a disunity and a gradual breakdown of civil and national communities. The main reason for this situation in Ukraine has been that during the past decade social problems have deepened, the problem of employment has worsened, and a large proportion of Ukrainians have found themselves at the brink of survival. Therefore, the priority of public policy should now be to create appropriate conditions to effectively stimulate the natural desire of each person to have children, to live a normal life, and to be sure of his future and future offspring. And an important factor in the social protection of families is to increase the state’s size, particularly the one-time support for the birth of a child. Fair accents need to be placed. If it wasn't for the presidential race, if it wasn't for one of the moral decrees then declared by President Victor Yushchenk, today's President, I don't think that this size of aid would be the subject of discussion today. We promised to support the State's initiatives where they go for the benefit of society, so we support the President's initiative to pay that amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, is there a question? Please sign up. Sign up for three minutes. On the board are the names of the national deputies. Please sign up for the questions. Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u98	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Well, first of all, I'm pleased to say that this is a question that is really important and very useful to the state, and that's the question that consolidates the political forces in Ukraine, and hopefully all Ukrainians. Now, we've seen representatives of various political forces, and here the position matches the position of candidate, and now President Victor Yushchenk. So I think it's a guarantee that the problem we're dealing with will be solved in such an optimal way. So I have no doubt that we're going to take some first project as a basis, then, taking into account the government's budget proposals, we're going to polish it. So I have a technical question. Please tell me that you are only asking for one - time birth - care. Meanwhile, the bigger problem then is keeping the child under three years of age. How, then, do you propose to provide such assistance further: After being born during the first, second, and third years of a child’s life?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u99	Today, I am pleased to say one thing: yesterday, during a meeting of the faction with Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko and Finance Minister Pinzenik, they said: thanks to you, the active position of the Social Democrats, who is constantly stressing the fulfillment of the promises made before the elections, the government is going to increase this assistance. Today's budget deficit, and you, Mr. Boris, as no one knows, is due to populist laws that, by the way, have been initiated by authors from the right flank of Parliament, amount to 41 billion. If you want the budget to go up a few billion more, we'll vote. But remember that today the Cabinet of Ministers, and all that will be done with the budget, is the political responsibility of the bloc that won the victory. You want extra expenses -- please make populist laws, we'll support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u100	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u101	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Igor Mikhailovich, I asked this question, if the President was standing here, well, the past President of our Kuchma Leonid Danilovich, but I can't see him like that, I'll ask you that question. Maybe you'll tell me why, when the Prime Minister was our current president today, Yushchenko and Vice Prime Minister Pinzenik, why they didn't raise money in a few years. Retirement insurance was not supported. What was in their way at the time, I keep thinking to myself. Is it only for the President to become or simply to be responsible at all times? Well, let's just raise these questions. Do you know that answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u102	I have to tell you, it's hard for me to answer for Victor Pinzenic. And with regard to President Yushchenk of Ukraine, I think he really wants to increase aid to 8,000 600 dollars because he was at the time dealing with the problem of demographics and wasn't asking any questions about material satisfaction. So I think it's time for everything. First we have children, then we know how hard it is to raise them, then we come up with a proposal, because we know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u103	Yes, Igor Mikhailovich, thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Vladimir Hare, your justification for Bill 6528-2. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u104	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in fact all three of these bills are trying to resolve a problem in law -- one-off payments at the birth of a child. On this point, I would like to point out that my bill envisioned this size, which is equal to 20 subsistence minimums and really intents, and these amounts are very little different in each of these bills. I'm the only person I'd like to say to the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour. Dear Oleg Vasilovna, I don't share your opinion that today we could wait for government decisions, because it's only about intentions, and today we're discussing real bills. And it's still a big question as the government's proposals will go through in this session room, and I don't know how they'll vote, because there will also be questions on which costs and on the basis of the reduction of which articles these additional costs will be sought. As for this problem, I really want to admit that my bill is being swallowed up, both by the Shufrich and Shurma bill and by Mrs. Samuelk's bill. And I won't deny it at all if it's either one or the other. And what's more, this is what the Committee says is appropriate for social policy and work to be based on the Shurma and Proscuratov bill. I'm happy to support not 20 living minimums, but 21. The only thing I would like to say is also since the introduction of this law. First of all, so that we don't put the bill in jeopardy by 1 January of this year, that is, putting the bill in reverse. Maybe you shouldn't do that. Although I would like to provide the maximum of these payments for more people. I think you could agree with Mrs. Samilik's proposal to put this bill into effect on May 1, this year, then there will be, let's say, no contradictions in the room. For the sake of the economy of time, I want to point out that for the next one, what really is the incentive for these bills to be passed is and, of course, the demographic situation in Ukraine, because we all want the Ukrainian nation not to die out. And, of course, it must still be about what conditions, and we must make them worthy, the newborn must live. And, indeed, 8,000 dollars, if you could make more, with joy, but these are the funds that will enable a young family or a young mother to provide the child with the first needed to begin her corresponding growth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u105	Sign up for questions. Please, Kendzer, follow him, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u106	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dearly favored, reporter, you and your previous one-party race have shown such care, such nobility in relation to this category of Ukrainian citizens. Please ask the first question: Why did you not take such an initiative when, in fact, you were decimating Ukraine during the reign of Kuchma and Yanukovich? Secondly, if I'm convinced of these needs that we're talking about today, if you take away all of the looted party thieves, you can really double the payout level for this category. In Lviv, only these companies that were under the roof of the Esdeans were named 1.5 billion by the prosecutor’s office on my parliamentary motions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u107	Thank you, my dear colleague, for the ethical question, but I want to answer it. That if you're really interested in my initiatives on the social bloc, I can bring you back to those bills that I've been passing that relate to lost savings, the minimum wage, 57th study article. I mean, I have something to talk about. I don't think I have to answer your accusations that you've made today. I'd like to send you to today's MP's vote on one of your factors, Peter Prashenko. There, exactly, it's about washing 413 million dollars. I think you'd be happy to hear that answer so that you don't refer the charges to Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u108	Yes, please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u109	Rodionov, Communist faction. Dear reporter. Maybe you're not to blame for what I'm about to tell you. But I'm going to remind everyone who's here who's asking you a question. Over the course of 10 years, Ukraine has crossed the line of descent, followed by irreversible destruction of demographic potential. So in Ukraine, we've reached such a level that we'll never recapture that population again. I have a question, do you think we shouldn't bring about a memorial, not a famine, but an existing system?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u110	Thank you for asking. My dear colleague, I think that if we were to take seriously all the reasons for this demographic situation, it certainly does not just run out of financial security. And even what we're going to do today, and I'm hoping that we're going to vote on this first-reading material one-time payout on such a large or significant scale, I don't think, frankly, it's going to solve this problem. But let's say one argument that will help to restore population growth in Ukraine is, of course, it can be. With regard to the memorial, you know, you probably have to have serious reasons, serious arguments have to be established, if we want to find the culprits in this situation today, that's one approach. I think today we need to look for ways to remedy this situation. And by adopting this law today, at least in the first reading, we are on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill number 6528-4 is represented by national deputy Konovaluk Valeriy Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor, for your respectable national MPs. You know, I'm not going to convince anyone that the problem that Ukraine came to within the 21st century and is now moving very slowly in this direction, it's painful and needs an immediate solution. You know what the bills and representatives of the various political forces have put forward, it tells us that this problem really needs immediate consideration. But there were no political forces among them, unfortunately. who have now come to power, formed a government and are trying to do something about it. Thus, respected colleagues in the family have transformed and lost a leading role in society because in the past 14 years, the population of Ukraine has actually decreased by 4 million 322,000 people, almost one Donetsk or three Ternopil, or two Lviv regions. The proposed amount of assistance is seen as an influential means of strengthening the social protection of families with children. Inadequate attention to a woman as a potential mother, I want us to pay attention to that, the largest percentage of the unemployed are women. The vast majority of wage earners who leave the country in an effort to earn something for themselves and their families are again women. So we need to understand that not only did we have to declare five months ago that we would increase the birth rate, but we should also make a bill appropriate, honourable, and achieve this in order for the Supreme Council to make a decision. So we have to look at this problem in the complex, because unfortunately no one knows the statistics. And I want to say that it was actually born last year of 427 thousand babies. And now nine children are born for every thousand people. So we need to not just translate this into a plane of some political relationship, but actually raise that level. And yet, in my bill, I'm proposing not only the growth, the provision of money, but that these funds be used for the purpose of getting it to the children. And you don't have to let that happen now, you know, in such conditions that you have to be born in order to get almost nine thousand dollars. No, it's not. We must ensure not only that we are born but that our children have everything they need for their own lives. And we also suggest that we consider more budget proposals and raise social assistance for the care of a child to six years and from six years to eighteen. And I want to assure you that our position in this is going to be consistent. So, I think, Mr. President, that this problem that the government is going to consider tomorrow at its meeting, when I consider the changes to the budget, I think the Supreme Council will support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u113	Please sign up for the questions. Let's see it on the monitors. Please, three minutes, Chubarov, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u114	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u115	Please, it's Kostinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u116	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block, Bogdan Kostinyuk Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you, as it were, a delicate question. Your bill was registered on March 1st this year. He was immediately included in the day’s schedule and was given the opportunity to report to you. Why didn't you do it when there was another government in power, another president in power? Why were you not concerned about these problems? You were in power at the time, and you could have done it. Or they say, as now, in the people who cook horses, and the frog lays his foot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u117	Thank you for asking, my dear colleague. But I think you probably don't share our children with the President today. I think that children, they are, if there's State security, and we are working hard today to provide additional revenue to the budget, I think the state should have some resources to solve this problem. And you don't have to say today, if we're going to increase the spending part of the budget, every year if it's going to increase by 30 percent, as it was this year, I think we're going to solve a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u118	Yes, please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u120	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. Dear reporter, first of all, I would like to testify on behalf of the faction that the faction will support these initiatives. And secondly, I'd like to say again about what we need to discuss today and make a decision and thereby help the executive. In doing so, I would like to refer to the experience of the recent Government Day, when some of our colleagues strongly objected to the victory parade, and the Supreme Council, referring to the participants themselves, the creators of this great victory, decided what the parade would be. And the President had to listen to the Supreme Council position. So I think this time it's going to be just like this: The Supreme Council will make the right decision, and the executive authority, bearing in mind the law adopted by the Supreme Council, will carry it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u121	Thank you. And I would like to point out that there is no reason to believe that the bills proposed by other people's deputies today are all entitled to support. The Supreme Council will be appointed, and I will vote in particular for all the initiatives. But I still want to address you, Your Honor, please, I will remind you every day, form a majority, form a government presidential coalition, take responsibility for the next parliamentary election, and make it clear to the Ukrainian people what you have done for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u122	Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u123	Valery Ilich, I think you share the view that this measure is necessary, but it will not give birth because neither 8, nor 18,000 are the main argument. The main argument is the state of good-naturedness in the country, a harmonious relationship between people, which is not in line with today's true state of affairs. In this regard, the mechanism is of greater interest to me and my colleagues. Fortunately, children are born not only in wealthy families but also in poor families, and that is what to do with families rich and very rich? Well, people who have a conscience will give up that amount, and yet what do you think? That's the first question. And secondly, we need to divide this amount not once, but by dividing it into three main components: child feeding, clothing and medicine, and protecting the child from disadvantaged parents who have the ability to turn these things into vodka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u124	Thank you, Alexander Nikolayevich, for your question. Indeed, the main challenge for us is that we, together with the Government, should identify mechanisms that would allow for differentiated and targeted channelling. I want to say that it is very important for us that the State, financial assistance, which will amount to about three billion bracelets each year, should be based solely on the social level of our citizens today. And I am convinced that in such a case there will not be today, you know, the temptation of our Humanitarian Deputy Prime Minister to engage exclusively in politics and politics. Today it is necessary to create normal conditions that will indeed change the psychological situation in the country, to raise the family institution to a sufficiently high level. This requires factors that will determine: both in the health field and in the social services, which, in their daily tasks, must still see this person, this family, and create all the comfortable and favourable conditions for doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u125	Thank you, sit down, please. From the committee’s profile, the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Bondarczuk Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u126	Dear Chairman, People's Deputies! The Committee on Social Policy and Labour considered three bills at our meeting on March 2nd, and then on March 16th, the fourth bill on the promotion of one-off assistance for the birth of a child. According to these bills, the amount increases to some 20 subsistence minimums for uninsured and insured persons, i.e. the amount of assistance will be received on a case-by-case basis at the birth of a child of about eight and a half thousand bracelets. What these bills have in common, I said. What is different: different deadlines for the introduction of the bill: the first January, the first April, the first July, and there is a proposal from the date of publication. Various suggestions were made regarding today's decision: to support the first reading of which to choose as a basis or perhaps to adopt as a whole today. The Committee proposes the adoption of Bill 6528-1 of Shufric, the rest of the bills, the provisions of the rest of the bills to be used in the well-being of this bill on the basis of second reading. But given that we are with you on Thursday next Thursday, we are likely to consider draft changes to the 2005 budget. I think it would be useful by this time to have a bill voted on in general. I mean, would it have to be just you and me making a deal? The simplest logical decision we may make is to put the law into effect as soon as the law is published. It is likely that the majority will make proposals. And in the Final Regulations, add such rules as to add to the two-month term of the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce its legislation in accordance with this law and, in addition, to develop a grant mechanism from the State budget of the Social Insurance Fund, because there is indeed a risk that there is a large deficit in the Fund. [[I'll pass it on to the president.]] And in conclusion. We got bills from all the factions, almost all the factions except our Ukraine, but they talked about it in Maidan, so I think they'll support it too. And there is a proposal to vote on the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u127	Yes, we sign up for a question. Yes, please, three minutes. Anisim, follow him, Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u128	Thank you. Please give the floor to my colleague Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u129	Please, Masenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u130	Thank you. Alexander Vasilovich, perhaps not so many questions to you, but to all the authors of the bill and to the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, Elena Vasilovna. Whether there is agreement between the amounts of payments laid down in the bills of the people's deputies and the bill of which Helen Vasilovna spoke when she says it was not filed. Well, I know, a block or something, bills that match those. With a budget or a budget change that we're going to consider. Do these amounts match, or do they match? Then maybe we don't need anything here, as they say, to break our foreheads. If so, we will vote on it. And if there's a difference, we have to lead the language around it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u131	Alexander Nikolayevich, what could be the problem here? The amounts are about the same. But just the payment mechanism can be different. We, through the bills, propose to pay once at the birth of a child. The family got the money, it could be food, clothes, medicine, it could be housing. But you heard what the Cabinet of Ministers is offering. Such corridors could be established to obtain the money, so that people would not be able to obtain the money. You know what we had. There's danger here. That's why I'm going through the law to do this. We'll do it now, we'll vote it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u132	Please, Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u133	I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u134	Stoyan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! You can see how the thoughts expressed by our President and the thoughts of our deputies coincide. The only difference is that we would still need colleagues from "Our Ukraine" to submit at least one law on the implementation of the President's program. It took on the opposition, it's normal. But unfortunately, taking care of people is the same thing. So we really need to support these bills. But I have an offer, Alexander Vasilovich. You don't have to take some as a basis. Our colleagues worked, our deputies worked. We need to get everyone on the ground, vote, assign to our committee, to the Committee on Social Policy and Work, to generalize with the MPs, and to make a single bill. And certainly we have to agree with what Helen Vasilovna said, because it's probably government-provided, and I would like to emphasise once again, the grant for one-time aid. If this is not done, dear colleagues, I'm bringing you to the catastrophe that may be. There will be no child - care payments, no maternity payments, no hospital payments, no funeral payments, and no payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u136	Grants to the Social Insurance Fund. Yes, Alexander Nikolaevich. With regard to the realization of these intentions. We are well aware of the fact that 3.3 billion is worth roughly, about 3 billion, this bill. We also have an offer to increase child care. Indeed, many ask questions: Will money be enough in the budget or not? Comrades, yes, in a market economy, this one that we have here, what, 14 years we've been living in a country. It's gonna be hard to do that. Therefore, the bill is followed by bills from communists that propose to transform the economy into a more effective way of development. On a socialist path. Remember how our factories worked back then. But for this to happen, many enterprises need to be nationalized, at least basic. And I think Timoshenko will eventually agree that working in the Government will realize that without the transition to socialism, no social programmes will be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u137	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes. Will We Discuss? Yes. I see those who sign up for the performance insist. Yeah, then let's take 12 minutes to talk. Well, 15 minutes to talk. Yes, please, Solomatin, follow him, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u138	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I personally support the Bill of 6528, which was introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Catherine Samuelk, head of the All-U.S. Association of Women Workers for the Future of the Children of Ukraine. It was around him that other bills could be combined. In 14 years of capitalist restoration, the population of Ukraine has declined from 52 million to 48 million, with the population of Ukraine reduced by one person every minute. You and I have been discussing this for half an hour -- 30 people will be gone. Should there be an increase in birth rates in Ukraine? The question is rhetorical. It'll cost us about 3.5 billion dollars a year. We're responsible for finding this money. But there are two dangers on this road. The first danger is the possibility of spending the money, or the child being born. And the second is the danger of turning a mother into a machine for the birth of children and turning her into a socially risky family into a source of income for the entire family. And so I would like to offer you a letter of reference to us, the national deputies, who I received on March 14 by e-mail. The mother of a five - month - old swan turns out to be one of Jehovah’s Witnesses. Ladies and gentlemen, we support the arrangement for raising child pay to 8,000 dollars, but these costs are quite high, and we therefore believe that a state agreement with parents on the commitment and use of these children’s funds must be made in parallel. It is also suggested that the State open a savings account, and that the parents file a cash - free payment. The family department and the young Reich administrations would periodically monitor and monitor the use of these government funds by their parents. In retrospect, as practice has shown, children’s expenses may not be used according to destination. With respect to a five - month - old child So I'm asking the government and the profile committee to take this into account, I think, as a useful opinion. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that we will vote in favour of such initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u139	Please, Carmazin, follow him, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. There is now an attempt to acquire intellectual property belonging to the National President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, who spoke up and signed this decree as early as November, when he was spiked with poison, he was poisoned by those who are now screaming, hemmed the poisons of those who are in the factions of those who were then in the majority. And now they're melting and filling out rows of other factions. And that's when the president called it a clear figure. And this number was 8,000 490 dollars. That's how it was marked. What did the president come out of? The president concluded that the country's birth rate was terrible, that the Kuchma regime, which was supported, unfortunately, by one faction, and the other, and the third, whose authors today are the authors of these legislative proposals. And no doubt everyone knows that the legislative proposal to amend one Law on State Aid for Families with Children is naked populism. Because you also need to make changes to the State Budget Act of Ukraine, and you do not make such changes. You don't make these changes and you don't calculate that the proposal, say, of Bill 6528-2, requires about three billion dollars from the conclusion of the Science and Technology Administration. Which, for example, for another law requires more than one billion dollars from the State Budget and the Social Insurance Fund -- almost two and a half billion dollars. This is Bill 6528-1, reported here. And so the term when this law is proposed, when it's adopted, what are the sources of the budget replenishment. And, I'm sorry, Your Honor, I have the impression that this is the way it was said today. If it wasn't for the Communists, if it wasn't for the Social Democrats, no one would be born in the country, and the sun wouldn't be coming down in the country. But the sun rises, the sun rises without communists, without social Democrats. And, Your Honor, I think it's a very correct proposition made by the government that from April 1st it will be installed in the budget of 8 thousand 490. And I'm willing to vote today for my opponents Mr. Shurma's first-reading project, but with an extra budget, and then from April 1st, as the government suggests, 8 thousand 490. But without you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u141	Please, dear. Behind him is Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, today we are discussing the question, I would like to remind you of the amount of one-time assistance in the birth of a child. And so to everyone today who discusses the problem of children being born, the sun rises, the globe spins and everything else, I want to say, dear, dear colleagues, stop! We're talking about a one-time delivery today. And so when we talk about the world itself, the appearance of man in white light, let's at least put aside politics at this point, let's stop and weigh the situation and make a normal, balanced decision. The only solution to be taken into account is one. Today there are four bills. Supplemental changes to the budget referred to here by the representative of Kabmin are the fifth option, but the essence of the budget is one. Today, we are entitled to take a step towards making the family receive 8.5,000 at the time of the birth of the child. Grieve. It's normal regardless of the color of the flag that you and I are running under, or this baby is going to be born. It's important that the children come to life. So when it's said today that the budget element needs to be adjusted, there are options whether to give up all the money immediately or not, so that some of the unhappy moms don't leave the baby in the hospital, and there's a lot to think about. It's all right. But I think it's the right thing for us to do on first reading. So here, from this rostrum of the People's Party faction, I say that we will vote in favour. Everything else is a policy that does no good to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u143	Yes, please, Hinzburg. After her, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u144	Konotapian constituency, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine When I discuss such a complex question, I would like to begin with what is being done for something. If this increases the level of child support, it is done to ensure that we have many children, born in Ukraine, and they live better. And I'm looking for an answer for myself: Are we going to do this, or are we going to get what we're doing now? And first of all, what I would like to say is, of course not, the faction of Communists will vote for it, because we have something to help our people. But why am I saying no? Because I have three questions. The first question, and I want to say this to my voters: 14 years in a row for the State Budget, where the minimum wage, the assistance and budget of our country voted in the Hall for almost all the deputies except the faction of the Communist Party, because it still said that it was very small to increase this payment to our families. Secondly, I would like to say the main thing, and it would not have been made today if the opposition had not pushed and said that we should do so. I also wanted to say that maybe you remember, and I remember my childhood well, and there were at least three children in every family in the village. It's the '50s, '60s, '70s. There were at least three children, five of whom were six, and no one paid 7, by 8,000. I seek an answer for myself so that this answer may be known to the State so that we can come to this: What then encouraged the Soviet people to bear children and hold such a state? Because when he was born, he was running to school, and there were classes in the village, and from the classroom he was coming home again, and his father and mother were coming home from work -- they were doing something, there were meetings, there were kindergartens, there were pioneer camps, then there was work, there was teaching at the institutes. And I'm looking for an answer for myself: what happened then? There was a common goal. There was a general problem, common pride and one country. And today we need to identify this problem, unite people, so that every human being, the child born, can have his own country. And then this 8,000, and then what we're going to do next, we're going to have to work for our nation. And it will not be that today, after the collapse of the Soviet Union in large and small towns, the funeral office became a business. It was the same, and now it's 5-6, and they can't hide our people. And that's the problem. You can yell, but there's a problem, that's a fact. And you and I have to fight this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u145	Please, Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u146	Dear colleagues. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, Democratic Ukraine. What I'm saying right now is that a group of bills actually responds to the Yushchenka initiative today regarding a sharp increase in the amount of one-time support for the birth of a child. And I don't understand your hysteria and toothache attacks that you're showing here in this room. What do you want us not to support the perfectly normal, intelligent things of Yashchenka? Don't yell at me! I've seen you and I've never been afraid! You're allowed to scream when a woman's in the stands! Here's the price of your deputy mandate! In fact, the government, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine have become hostages of a similar ode of statements in the election races today. And I propose to these bills, to approach this idea in a calm, balanced and professional way. Of course, without the basis of the sources, and especially without the analysis of the possible social consequences, I emphasize the social consequences, the economic and financial consequences, we will bring nothing good to people. It has already been said that somewhere we need to take three billion dollars in the budget deficit of over 40 billion dollars. It is very easy to predict a sharp, catastrophic increase in inflation that all of this money will eat at the same time. I am not saying that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will simply be obliged and will have to do - write a separate, special order of payment of such sums that, on the one hand, it is necessary, and on the other hand, such a special order of spending such sums will immediately cause complaint and dissatisfaction. But these are still flowers. Dear colleagues, berries, bitters, and acids ahead, because it is possible to bankrupt the Social Insurance Fund in connection with temporary loss of employment: either bankruptcy, or 2.9 percent of the tax we pay to this fund, we should increase it to 10 percent. Did any of the employers in this regard consult? These are our hospital leaves. What about other forms of help for families with children? After all, yes: if the government assumes a financial commitment for the President's promises, we must vote in favour, but I want to say something else. if we sincerely want to help young families. There is another proposal, real and useful, that is to give housing credit to families with small children. Credit is given and cheated, and it is repaid as children are born, since it should be at the birth of each child, not just one child. This is a formal and vital aid for young families. I propose to vote in favour of all the bills and to give a protocol commission to the Committee on Social Policy and Work to bring them together for second reading, to submit a normal bill to the session room. And I ask you to vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u147	Thank you. Lila Grigorovitch, one minute, please, you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u148	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." There's a woman standing on this stand again, and she was standing on this stand six months ago when I asked in today's opposition, and then most of the 30-40 bracelets in July 1st for many children. But I didn't. How easy it is to be an opposition! Almost, as Latin says, "Altus, cytus" - above, more, better. Let the fund that Mr. Stoyan is burning die, let it be all, but they're good to go! So, my dears, you really wanted or you didn't want to, but you had to celebrate President Yashchenk and give him your dues, because if it wasn't for his fair election position, which would be done as well as the wages paid by Prime Minister Yushchenk in 2000, you wouldn't have this benefit today. There is no hysteria, there is no emotion, there is a legislative hysteria of the new heated opposition! My friends! February 23rd will be two months after the inauguration of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one minute left, one minute spent, thank you. Don't scream, please. On the basis of Stoyan's vote, Assadchev per minute. Those who are registered. Dear colleagues, once again, we have taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I want to say that there is no benefit because, when I was in charge of the Ukrainian trade unions, every year we made a demand for the government to increase the payment to the families. But, dear colleague in the rostrum, we're not doing anything wrong with the President, we're unanimously supporting President Yushchenk, because he said he was going to pay 8 thousand 500. Who prevented you from passing a law that would implement the President's program? We passed this law, we're helping the President keep his promise, and you're backing us up. What are you accusing us of? We're not saying you're 18,000, 20,000, 30. We say the same 8,500 that the President offered to help families. But I think you'll support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! You listen first, and then you'll scream. You listen first. Insomnia, wait. I'm gonna say it again. We had 15 minutes to discuss the matter. Lilia's already number six. So it's because of the shortening of the time she's been talking about, that's the minute she's been using. Now. I repeat, we've used 15 minutes. Now I'm giving it away. Please don't push. I'm reading. The other one. Now I'm giving a minute of motivation to the one who's still writing. Written by Stoyan, the written Hare, written by Assadchev They'll be out in a minute and we'll pass. Rabbit, please, one minute. Then a minute to Assadchev. Please, Rabbit microphone, one minute. Then Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u152	Adam Ivanovich, so let's do a new one, see how long it's been.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u153	Please return the time of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u154	I'm asking you to pass on the word Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u155	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u156	Dear voters! This is how women, children, people, Parliament are treated. The main thing is to jump out and smoke your own, now the proposals of the faction of our Ukraine. What our President has said is reflected in the changes to the budget that Parliament will be considering on Thursday, which is why everything is done so quickly, it is that everything proposed in these bills and even more will be changed to the budget. So I ask them to back up, support the bills in the first reading, and realize that what a child needs at birth: wheelchairs, clothes, change in six months. A child needs some other things and another needs others in a year. And it seems to me that in the interests of the child, not some political party, we should do as follows: vote in the first reading, accept the changes to the budget, and finally make the best decision not for the political power, but for the child.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u157	Please, Assadchev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u158	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People's Party, dear friends, I think we'll have a lot more democracy if we don't have the factions from which the bills were passed. And we'll listen to a little bit of opposition, I think it'll be more useful. Now I want to tell you: ideas that are being considered today, for you to know, for more than five years. And one of the authors of this idea stands before you in the rostrum. And when this idea was considered for more than five years, it was built this way: how to help a domestic producer increase their production volume and make extra jobs. And a solution was made through such a social program and a demographic program could be solved. At the time, it was difficult for various reasons. Now, of course you can do that, but as soon as we don't give a god, let's make a cash payment to mom, trust me, except for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u159	Thank you, please, Nightshade, and we'll determine. Noshchenka's microphone. Dear colleagues, don't be alarmed. We'll settle this by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u160	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm basically. Dear colleagues, trust me as a specialist, not one child’s birth aid or child support is provided by order of the President. Only a change to an existing law can increase the payment of birth aid. Even amending the 2005 Budget Act is the size. But the basic law that we are discussing today is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, once again, it doesn't matter what faction made. According to the Rules, those who have signed up are acting in such an order. If I were to move someone, then you'd be accusing me of doing something wrong. I'm doing everything in accordance with how we made a deal with you. That's the first one. The other one. Be careful, fellow believers. We have a lot of bills on the same subject. I'll remind you once again: Samuelk's bill sets 21 minimums, other bills 20 times. But in each of the bills, there are different dates for their introduction. And I think we should do it this way with you. Given that, in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers has informed us that in the 2005 changes to Ukraine's State Budget, which we will most likely consider with you, on March 24th, this rule has already been taken into account. But she's actually the right Noshchenko, who stressed, is going to be counted once, that is, in the 2005 budget. Wait, don't wave your hands. Because it's established by law, not by budget. If we're going to pass a basic law with you, let's take a first reading, wait for the budget, there's going to be a budget. If we accept it, then we'll adopt the basic law for all the following years. And I think that's how we're going to act in sync with the Cabinet of Ministers and we don't need any policies of excess. So I'm going to stress again. For reasons, write it down, vote. Three minutes. Yes, please, Chubarov. After him, it's Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u162	I ask you to give the word to Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u163	Please, it's Assadchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear friends, I wanted to finish what I said. So I propose that I shorten my time, vote really first reading. On the second reading, mandatory requirements, first, are cashless. The other one. For three years, the child’s life is equal to three years. Third. Compulsory purchase of domestic goods for children It's the right thing to say, it's clothes, it's food, it's medicine. Then it will be of benefit. Otherwise, it'll only be a pity. So I suggest first reading and then we write the mechanism in second. And what kind of bill, I think, doesn't really matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u165	Please, Polit. Behind him is a mosquito.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u166	Andrey Polit, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u167	Please, Zibank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u168	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to emphasize once again that we have to change the basic law, right into the basic law. Since the Law on Budgets is of a kind, it only works for a year. And we're going to have to secure this rule over the entire next period. And the second. I think Adam Ivanovich might have listened to the thought of a professional committee which is to take the basis of one of these laws that consumes others, and the deadline for introduction, to be adopted in the second reading, including, and the deadline for the introduction, let's say, from the time of publication, that is to say, it will be at the same time as the State Budget Act of Ukraine. I'd like to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u169	Please, Komar. Behind him is Vasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u170	Please pass the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u171	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u172	I'm standing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u173	Stand-by microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u174	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I mean, once again, you don't have to politicize that question. And those of my fellow MPs who passed the bill, they don't do anything popular. There's no 10, 20, 30 grand. There's as much as the President has promised. It's a mistake, perhaps, to a colleague from "Our Ukraine" that they didn't submit a bill to implement the President's proposal. But today they are speaking here, Comrade Assadchev, others, supporting. So we're going to get together. We need to make changes to the basic law, and that's what we need to do. And then we have to definitely, I would like to emphasise, on several occasions, what payments will be made to meet this requirement -- 8,500 payments from the State Budget? Because if they're not, if they're going to be done at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund, they've already said, or you have to increase the calculation, or you have to cancel the other payments. So I'm going to really vote for all the bills right now, take them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u175	Please, Vaszczuk and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the People's Party faction supports the idea, and we think it's really worth voting for today's first reading, so that the budget changes will place specific costs so that it won't be a wish, and it's a very good idea not to turn into a promise to the mother and the child. And one more option. Of course. You can learn how much better: whether it is better to distribute these funds for food, clothing, and some of the costs, but not to stretch them for long in time. It is the first year of a child’s life that is especially important. Who was the mother, understands and knows. So the main desire is that we be able to make our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have thus concluded the discussion of the bill. I remind all of us again. Yes, please, one minute Deputy Minister Hot Helen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, we thank you all for having such an active part in this discussion, and we ask you to support these bills in the first reading so that most of the suggestions that have been made today can be taken into account on the second reading. And especially Catherine Timothy, who finished her talk by having to work on the mechanism for providing such assistance. In the first reading, please, please, and we will work on the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! We've already spoken with the procedure. Dear colleagues! Well, we should have been able to log in then. Dear colleagues, we will now vote. Calm down. I stress once again, despite the fact that we've been discussing this issue quite hotly, we're all the only ones here that we need to adopt such bills in the first reading, then reconcile them after we've adopted the changes to the budget, and virtually every one of you who has spoken has made quite valuable thoughts and recommendations about it. to take into account the second reading. And I think let's vote and figure it out. I put it in order of coming and as we discussed these bills. The adoption vote is based on the first reading of a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws to increase the amount of one - time assistance when a child is born. Registration number 6528. Please vote. Samualik's deputy initiator. [[13:08:00]] For 346 Thank you, the law is passed. Once again, dear fellows. No, no, dear colleagues, they're all the same. It's just about the deadlines, and we're going to set the deadlines for the second reading with you as we step out of the budget. That's why it's the law. First reading project accepted, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u180	There's 21 written down. Dear colleagues, calm down. The law that has been voted upon is passed. We've already voted in the second reading, we're clarifying. Now, pay attention, fellows of honor! Be careful, we need to solve one question before we move on to the Vulnerable. Yesterday, we discussed the satisfaction of the members of the National Television and Radio Council with regard to their resignation. As we examined our colleague Vitaly Shevchenk's application yesterday, we did not satisfy her. But the Central Election Commission couldn't accept Vitaly Shevchenk's credentials if he didn't quit his previous job. And so, unfortunately or fortunately, in his workbook, there is already a record of him being released from office as a member of the National Council, and not just a member, but a deputy head of the National Council for Television and Radio. So yesterday, it was like we left him, but in fact, formally, legally, we didn't leave him. That's why we're going to have to re-appointed him to this position today. That's one thing. And the second. We have another quota in connection with the fact that we met a Board member’s application yesterday. So I propose today to include in the agenda and to consider the appointment of members of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. I'm betting on getting in the day-to-day. Please be supportive. [[13:10:27]] For 322 Thank you. So, dear colleagues, you've been given draft regulations. Now, I'm literally two words without saying we don't know. As far as Vitali is concerned, there's no need to represent it. I literally said a few words about Plaxyuk Yuri Alexanderovich: in 1952 I was born, a journalist, a participant in fighting in Afghanistan, had a bearing, was of my own time, worked as a member of the National Council, and as a member of the National Council, and as a member of the National Council, he is now working as a advisor to the Supreme Council. The Special Committee supports this. Please, one minute for the first deputy head of the Freedom of the Word Committee, Sergio Pravdenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the profile committee held a meeting today. We also recommend Chevchenka Vitalia Fedorovich as a member of the National Council, and Plaxyuk Yuri Alexiyovich as a member of the National Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They're both professionals. Vitaly Fedorovich, a member of our committee, was on the first call, he was a purely decent man and politician, and a professional in the media. Yuri Alexiyovich's placard was composed of Nacrada on the quota of the President of Ukraine, for which he was also released for the term because he did not vote like that. You realize that this is a professional and principled person and a high-class expert. I'm asking you under. Several factions even supported these candidates in writing. I ask my fellow Members to support these candidates. The Supreme Council will never be ashamed of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u182	Thank you. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio talk by Plaxjuk Yuri Alexiyovich. Registration number 7213. Please vote. [[13:12:53]] For 326 Copy that. I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to appoint a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio talk by Shevchenk Vitali Fedorovich. Registration number 7214. At the same time, please take into account his statement yesterday regarding the filing of credentials. Vote. [[13:13:30.]] For 330. So let's welcome the board members. We have fulfilled our responsibilities to form the National Council. I had a conversation today, and it is predicted that the President of Ukraine will also appoint his "four" in the near future, and then eight members of the National Council will take the head, the first deputy, the deputy and the secretary. Now it's a different recording. Please sign up. Please report to the monitors. Let's take 60 minutes. Before that, I'll make an announcement, my distinguished colleagues. I'm informing you about the establishment of an interfractional Lviv MP, which has now included 16 national MPs, including the one who announces the creation of such a union. Please, Ratchet. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u183	Dear voters! Deputies! Mikhailo Ratushny, Victor Yushchenka's constituency, Ukrainian People's Party. I want to get the public's attention once again on the situation surrounding the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline. According to reports published on the activities of VAT "Ukrattransnafta" in 2004, 100 per cent of the shares of which belong to the State, the trend in the loss of oil spillage by Ukrainian oil transport systems is over 2 million tonnes compared to 2003. The decrease in the load of Ukrainian oil pipelines was due to the fact that Ukratransnaft had now signed a series of, according to previous estimates, discriminatory treaties for Ukraine that increased the influence and control of Russian companies over the Ukrainian oil transport system and argued them precisely as a guarantee of an increase in the volume of Russian oil pumping. Deep analysis requires a package of contracts and reverse agreements. Ukrainian. First. The Ukrainian side did not have sufficient guarantees for effective loading of the reverse mar.t and took all the risks. For example, there is no legal-based compensation mechanism for Cruscransnaft in the case of non-profitable oil pipelines that are now supported by six reverse oil pipelines. Treaty No. 0304 of 9.07.2004 does not provide for guaranteed loading, but rather for a place. an unspecified formulation of up to 9 million tons of oil per year. Research is needed on the possibilities of interaction and the use of existing Cypriot scenarios by Tem ar energie Ltd., which represent the Russian TNC. Remembering that the problems that exist in Ukraine are related to the arrests of Ukrainian aircraft. NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and Watt "Ukrattransnafta" have been promoting the idea that reverse agreements can be suspended at any time. Although the agreement states that it is possible only if there is mutual written agreement. Next: In 2004, the management of the energy sector was biased with potential direct-use partners. I would like to remind the National Deputies that, in principle, the pro-European position of their time around Odessa Ships has been released by such persons as: Heiduk, Tamiczuk, in some ways Horoshkovsky and Chali. I am addressing Prime Minister Timoshenko and the Head of Naftogazu of Ukraine, Yvchenka, who, on the eve of a visit from Russian President Putin, the Ukrainian side should finally take the principle position and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'm not signing up for you. Now they're clearing it up with the "Race" system. Well, what am I going to do to you? I'm not pressing buttons for you. Please, Shurma, follow him to Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u185	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The newly appointed Minister of Education and Science, Stanislaw Nikolayenko, among the key priorities of modern Ukrainian education, called the need to create and implement programs in school that would provide a kind of alternative to the former complex "ready to work and defend" which has massed schoolchildren, contributed to their comprehensive development and national patriotic education. The Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is proposing to the Ministry of Education and Science a system of paramilitary games for young people a complex system that includes the Ministry's proposed direction of work with schoolchildren. [[united]] [[abbreviated ALL]] THE world is a system aimed at the full physical development of young people and young people, as well as their feelings of patriotism, health, morals, and behavior in society. The world has various military-sport competitions, plotting field games, marches, military tours of preschool camps, which is a fully modern, methodically based alternative to the former "Glasses". Within the framework of the system of paramilitary games, there is a program called "Preparing for military service."which is a combination of various physical tests for different age groups: shooting with pneumatic weapons, cross, jumping, lifting. The system of belligerent games is methodically developed and based on the relevant handbook that saw the world for the promotion of united social democrats in 2004. Previously, for three years I was tested in practice with various groups of students in Lvivščina. The results can be seen as having an effective and only positive effect on the upbringing of modern teenagers. IT IS an exciting system for schoolchildren to adapt to their perception. A number of youth organizations have been formed around the world. For several years, members of the organization regularly conduct competitions and tournaments. IT IS a unique method of dealing with adolescents because they are sensitive to their needs, their outlook, their interest, and, more importantly, that they are not imposed on adults. WHO can be introduced into the educational process and also provide useful and exciting leisure for children in the later part of the holiday season. I want to point out that in April of this year, there will be a series of normative competitions within the world of the "Preparing for Army Service" system, and in June, the fourth open-air champion of the Lviv district, "Let the war remain only a game." Dear colleagues, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine unitedly offers the Ministry of Education and Science this program for consideration. We are ready to cooperate with the Ministry on all issues related to the recovery of children, their feelings of patriotism, and their loyalty to the Father. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, really, now, John Alexanderovich, wait. Indeed, the representatives of the "Council" system say that there has been some kind of malfunction. So let's do it again. Get ready, please. Get ready, please. We're back now, I'm asking you to sign up again, because I've failed the "Race" system. In fact, we had about 300 in the hall, and only 22. Therefore, please do what is right. Please sign up. Turn on the "Race" system. Press the buttons that you want to make. Please show the monitors. That's Rabbit One. So we have 54 minutes left. Please put on a monitor for 54 minutes. Hare, behind him is Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u187	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Every day. No, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u188	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, every day, we must take care of improving the natural environment in our country. Only that nation has a future that will provide a powerful natural resource base and an economically clean environment. I've already tortured you with my speeches on this subject, but I want to draw attention not only to yours, but also to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers to a very important problem. I'd like to talk to you about clearing up the territory of Ukraine. To bring the forest area to an optimum level, it is necessary to create additional forests in an area of at least three million hectares. And then we can say that the deforestation of Ukraine is going to be 20 percent. Considering that there are very few forests in the woodchopper and in the steppe, even this level may not be considered optimal. You know, the Cabinet of Ministers has approved a government program called the Forests of Ukraine by 2015, which is scheduled to create new forests in an area of 40,000 a year. Him. In the 1960s, I'll remind you, there were forests in the area between 100,000 and 200,000 each year. Him. I remember my school years when I was a boy and people like us, our schoolchildren on a police station in Zitomirsk were planting hectares in a week of these woods. And today we can enjoy the great forests. But this program is not being implemented today. The field is ready, the rangers. But there's no funding. Last year, $10 million was allocated for the production of new forests prepared for this year, an area of 10,000. ha, there's already landing material, and funding is available for only a third. This means that both the landing material and the big job will be gone. Therefore, my suggestion is that the changes to the State Budget will necessarily provide the funds for it. Adam Ivanovich, I can't speak at all, do you understand? [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why I'm asking government members and budget committee members to anticipate the cost of creating new forests. I'm once again drawing the attention of the national MPs to this 10,000. Ha, which I've been talking about, they're basically supposed to settle down in the south of Ukraine, where we're seeing submerged today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u190	Yes, Your Honor, I'm asking the "Content" system to tell you what's going on. Once again, 25 were recorded, and again, you are dissatisfied. Is the Council system ready to write it down? You tell me, please, with the "Race" system, why are there at least one and a half hundred and 25 in the room, even though everyone's pushing the buttons? Will I write for you or will you work? Now we're going to write this down once, but is there a system ready to go again that we're going to record indefinitely? Okay, is the system ready? Ready. Yes, so, please prepare, I'll make an announcement. We're doing it again. Boki will be here soon. We're recording again. Push the buttons. It'll turn on, then. Yeah, well, 43. I think it's real. So, on this list that's written down, please, we'll have 50 minutes left. Please, Boki. Kendzior to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u191	Yes, John Boki, the faction of socialists. Dear colleagues! In view of the great and, indeed, urgent problems, we have some way of paying attention to the problem of the activities of higher education institutions, which are related to their work, the left-wing part of corruption that eats up society. Over the past few years, higher qualifications have become an additional "left" tool for managing different ministries, committees and government committees. Perhaps only a lazy person did not earn money for a simple but an effective scheme, the essence of which was the acceptance by a conditional public authority of the qualifications requirements for controlled enterprises. Under these requirements, for example, once a year the director, the chief accountant and some other specialists must be trained and certified to train the state sample according to the developed regulatory program, otherwise they will be granted a license. Learning to obtain certificates can only be done in one private institution on a commercial basis, which is usually created by an interested state institution. A large number of enterprises under the control of the relevant public authority ensure that there is a constant presence of listeners for their educational establishment and a significant amount of money. This, with the permission to say, is usually based on the cost of teaching, and the listener comes to classes mainly for the purpose of registering and obtaining a diploma. Such schemes are actively used in the activities of the National Tourism Administration of Ukraine and the State Commission for the regulation of financial services markets in Ukraine. Every tourism organizer knows that without a three-year job in a tourist company, he must be given special courses to improve his qualifications at the Tourist Advisory Centre in Dergetura in order to obtain a licence. Further went the direction of the State Commission on Financial Services. Under the qualifications of this commission, the president, the chief accountant, should increase education once every three years. And a specialist in financial monitoring of the insurance company. There are more than 300 insurance companies in Ukraine, so there are no problems with the students' workload in the Centre for Human Resources Training for Information and Analysis. By the way, the training center is headed by an expert at the Derjffin Service. The point of view of insurance companies, many of whom do not want to learn at this center because of the low quality of services, is not taken into account by the commission. And there's actually no alternative to the center, so most people have to pay. This is a clear interest in the management of the Ministry of Finance. The new government needs to stop these growing trends from being eradicated by another source of corruption. That's why I'm asking you to consider this as a matter of law to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u192	Please, Jaroslav Kenzier. Get ready for Calinchuku. He conveys the word to Narazah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u193	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! I'm very late, but I'm still doing a request from the pre-Industrials. On January 21, this year, the leader of the Lviv Esdek National Deputy of Ukraine Shurma, who said in his speech that during the election campaign in one of the schools of the Przemyslny district of Lviv, a student whose relatives voted in the first round of the election for Yanuković, had been forced by teachers as punishment to stand on their knees during the course of the lessons. I have a letter in which this outright lie of Igor Shurma and the teachers who signed the letter is completely denied. whether the principals of all the schools in the region require Shurma's apology at the Supreme Council's plenary meeting for misinformation, for the lie he has sown on the whole of Ukraine about the Prime Minister's education. He added and confirmed that there was no such fact, the head of the district headquarters of Januković during the election of Lobodjak. I would like to go on with this, a little bit more, that this political force, which in its own time, being completely in power, is occupying Ukraine, freely plundering the Ukrainian state, today, hypocritically in Pharisaic, is yelling about how bad people are living like the new government, the new president, you see, is not fulfilling their promises, and you've seen it here today in this room. I'd like to remind the company from SDPU, who is here in the hall, that it's good to remember the promises made by former presidential candidate Victor Yushchenk today about what the new authorities will do, but I would like to remember one of the slogans: "The Bandits will be sitting in jail!".. This is when this password will be implemented, and I'm convinced that once we get the money back to the state treasury that was robbed by bandits from the SDPU(o) we can, at least, triple it, raise the level of social benefits in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u194	Please, dear. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u195	Vasily Nadrag, Luganskina, People's Party. Today, I would like to refer to this, at first glance, for people with normal incomes, a small subject, and here, for the main population, more than the sick. The problem concerns the granting of subsidies for utilities or the payment of housing, as is still said. So that's the point of the problem? We know with you that the public knows that in order to obtain a public service grant, it is necessary to be able or unable to pay for all these utilities if they exceed 15 per cent of the total family income. It seems correct and understandable, and in this context, in July 1998, the Cabinet of Ministers passed a decree of 1156 of 27.07.98. This decision was thus determined. Moreover, a year later, in March 1999, the Supreme Council adopted a decree on the payment of housing and utility services for the population of Ukraine, stating that utilities should not exceed 15 per cent of the actual total income of the family. I mean, from the amount of money that family members actually receive after they retain all taxes. I think the Supreme Council has done more humanely in this case. Regrettably, the issue has not been settled to this day. And when people turn to housing subsidies, they start to interpret these topics differently. Based on this logic, there are numerous complaints, including collective complaints against members of the people. including me, the essence of which is that such clarifications are neither the central authorities nor, for example, the Directorate-General for Labour and Social Protection of the population of the general governments can either give or take final effect to a final decision, especially since they themselves have applied, I am referring to the local authorities, the central authorities, to provide clarification and to establish a normal, clearly regulated normative basis, that the grant is awarded by no more than 15% if the money actually received is obtained. Because the income and everything else that is protected by the Cabinet's July 98 decision, it actually places thousands and hundreds of thousands of people at the risk of not receiving housing subsidies, very and very large categories, unless it says so. Based on this logic, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics and the entire Cabinet of Ministers, would also like to draw attention to this issue. We have a duty to resolve this problem if we care so much about the population that we declare from this rostrum and from others quite actively. People are waiting for a solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u196	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine", to prepare Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u197	Eugene Hoornik "Our Ukraine", Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to speak on a somewhat unexpected subject, but as a football sickster with more than 40 years of experience, I find the monopolization of this subject by certain industrial and financial groups inappropriate. I want to express my pain, thinking and suggestions about the alarming state of affairs in Ukrainian football. Football, as a social phenomenon that includes elements of sport, politics, and culture, has always played a major role in Ukraine’s life. We were proud of the victories of the Kyiv Dynamo, we were proud when the team was one of the first to wear national blue-yellow colors as their own. Finally, Ukrainian football at the time of the Communist occupation was one of the few legal developments at the time of the national idea in Ukraine. And it's sadder to look at today's reality when the Dynamos, the Shaktars, the other teams are the collectives of Romania, Serbia, or the 10th composition of collective Brazil, in the presence of one. Two Ukrainians. In such circumstances, like millions of other bullies, I lose my motivation for pain. What's more, it's hard to understand: the socio-economic situation in Romania, Serbia or Bulgaria is better than the Ukrainian situation, why can they train football players and Ukraine is not? Our collective and club failures have become systematic. And the last conflicts of Surkis-Grigorishin are surprising. Dear colleagues and cowards, not for Surkis and not for Grigorishin, but for Dinamo, they experience Ukrainian cowards and they worry about Ukrainian football because it's offensive to the state. Next. A situation with an outstanding football player, a model of cowards, our colleague Oleg Blochin. Let's be honest, taking it as an image figure from the Company, for two years, we didn't notice that Blochin was doing his training activities abroad, and only now did they consider it when the congregation started to make some progress, just when it might not have been necessary. And unless it's a training activity, it's not a science class. I call on Parliament, the court, the government and the President to be very considerate in all these problems, so as not to harm Ukrainian football itself, it's a very delicate issue. I propose that, if necessary, parliamentary hearings be held on the subject. I think it takes a quota of foreign players to make our football really Ukrainian football. And we should probably get out of this situation. And surprisingly, now all the views and opponents and supporters of Victor Yushchenk in this matter are brought to the President. I call on you, Victor Andriyovich, to show state wisdom in favor of Ukrainian football in favour of Ukraine. And that's really it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u198	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Prepare for Gurwicz Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u199	Mironenko, 5 constituency, Crimea, Ukrainian Comparty faction. Respectable people of Ukraine, distinguished people's deputies, respected judges. In view of the fact that President Yushchenko of Ukraine, members of his team have repeatedly violated the Constitution of Ukraine, the legislation of Ukraine, I call on you to begin the preparation of the impeachment procedure, the early resignation of President Yushchenko in connection with the violation of Ukrainian laws. I'll only bring in a few facts. First fact. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has generally adopted a law aimed at eliminating extreme injustice, imbalances in the pensions of retired soldiers prior to 1992. However, after President Yushchenko had violated the Constitution, the country's main law had not signed the law or even vetoed that it was detrimental to the establishment of a rule of law and to the specific harm to people. Second fact. Death of former Minister of the Interior Kravchenko. No one has the right before the courts to call anyone a criminal and prosecute people for political reasons. However, the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko, as a member of his team, has been harassed, intimidated by their opponents in elections, called people criminals before trial, which has resulted in both moral and health harm to many people, members of their families. These illegal actions by Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Moroz, in my view have led to tragic results, particularly the death of former Interior Minister Kravchenko. I believe that President Yushchenko and the members of his team should be tested on this fact, the suicide of the former Minister of the Interior, the suicide, and many argue that it may have been murder. Respectable people of Ukraine, distinguished people's deputies, respected judges. Still Gongadze's mother. doesn't pick up a body found in Tarosha, because it hasn't been proven killed by Gongadze or killed whose body it is. The body that was named Gongadze was skinned, his head cut off, his hands brushed off, so that no one would know who owned the body. But amazingly, the Gongadze ornaments were placed next door. Is it a legitimate question that this was done to mislead someone else's body as the corpse of Gongadze? In support of such possible falsification, it is said that the body was initially reported by professionals who indicated that the body found in Tarsus was eight to ten centimeters lower than it should have been in general, if Gongadze was actually protected. It has not been proven that the so-called Gongadze tapes are real, real. Where are the originals? They say in the United States. Everything points to the United States, so it can be argued that this is a special operation of the United States of America aimed at a coup d'état aimed at bringing Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Frost to power. In view of all of this, given these facts and other facts, I appeal to the need to establish a legal State of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u200	Please, Karmazin. Next, Vasilyev gives the word to Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, two weeks have passed since my request to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a criminal offence for the theft of state property on a particularly large scale, corruption, actions aimed at the destruction of the city of Odessa as one against the so-called Odessa city head of Ruslan Bodelan, who has not been elected. According to exit-pool, he was voted 2.3 times less Odessa than his rival, Edward Gurvice. The matter has not been resolved until now. A criminal case against thieves is being tried to turn into political games or political squabbles. There's no politics. There's a clean crime scene. Now they're trying to remove and destroy documents from the Odessa City Council. Sadly, some of the actions of individual officials of the Supreme Court of Ukraine have contributed. Yes, on March 16, 2005, such a fax came to the Court of Appeal of Odessa. The fact that this fax came, no one knew it from the judges, learned it from what they were speaking out in front of the citizens themselves, Mr. Bodelan and his apologist, Schufrich. With this instruction, or fax, the case was proposed for removal and transfer to the Wozniesen District Court of the Mikolai district. A matter that has already been considered. It is a violation of the rules of jurisdiction, and it is a matter of bringing a case before another court that is essentially prohibited, except in cases. provided for in article 133 of the Code, in particular if it is acknowledged that the case is more convenient to decide where the most important actions are to be examined, or if the request for an answer whose residence was not known to be transferred to the place of actual residence is recognized as worthy of satisfaction. Surprisingly, in 2002 the Chief of the Supreme Court, Vitaly Boyko, wrote "the ground for bringing the case to trial in another area." And only after the General Prosecutor's Office had reopened the case of the falsification of the elections, which had been violated since 2002, and it had been proved that the three-member constituencies had been falsified again. I appeal to the Supreme Court, to the President of Ukraine as the guarantor of the Constitution, to the Minister of Justice: repeat justice, let the President of Ukraine consider their fate and decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u202	Please, Vasiliev gives his word to Komar, to prepare for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u203	Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! As is known, the Supreme Council decided to consider the draft changes to the 2005 State budget next week. Discussions have already begun on the Government's budget changes. This is despite the fact that the draft changes themselves are still not handed over to the people's deputies and are not presented to society. The budgetary process has been deliberately or unconsciously turned into a fiscal force majeure or, more rightly, into a force majeure. "Fors major because I would like to draw your attention to the fact that budgets were adopted in April and even later. We remember these years. We now have a legally adopted budget law for 2005, which is simply not being implemented by the Government. Debts have now appeared to the Chernobyl population, pension debts, wages. Well, even such an example may lead to the fact that medical equipment is not procured centrally because the Government believes that the financing of these purchases needs to be changed. So who's in the way of making this order? But three months without financing the purchase of medical equipment, well, that's hard to say. The Cabinet promises to submit the draft revised budget in just a few days before the date of consideration of the budget in the Parliamentary Chamber. So short a time frame does not allow the deputies to take a careful look at the project, so what responsibility of the Supreme Council for the revised budget-2005 can it be when the main indicators of the country's draft main financial document are learned from the media? The procedure for the consideration by Kabmin of changes in the budget has proved extremely, I would say simply to be very opaque. Contrary to the promises of the current authorities to avoid Kuchma's mistakes, budget lines are being revised in a cell, under a carpet, which forces the will of slaves to question the integrity of their intentions and the purity of their hands, as indicated by the President, the initiators of the budget review. With regard to the substance of the draft revised budget-2005, the positive changes initiated by the Government of Januković continue to be understood by the media as far as its social parameters are concerned. At the same time, the faction “Regions of Ukraine” states that the media's campaign of allegations of the launching of public funds by the previous Kabmin is highly publicized. Suffice it to say that Timoshenko has not overturned any decision of the Government of Yanukovic concerning the financial security of the social obligations of the State. On this basis, the “Regions of Ukraine” faction further draws the attention of the current authorities to the need for a balanced and transparent effort by society to improve the standard of living of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u204	Thank you. Please, Eugene Kirilchuk, Block Timoshenko. Get Terran ready for him. Who? Please, Boris Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u205	Thank you. The Supreme Council wisely voted, thanks primarily to the Communists, for the worthy historical significance of honoring the 60th anniversary of our victory over the evil of the universe -- fascism. Only winners have the moral historical right to determine both form and content. actions. We're just going to bow our heads in ground honor to the winners, not just the Second World War, but the reality of the Great Homeland War. And no reference to so-called, humane, humanitarian or financial inadequacies can stand in the way of this parade of immortality. It's just that if it's not bitter, some people will go forever after this parade. The good news is that we are not limited to moral incentives, but we are trying to support the veterans in any way and materially. And in this connection, I would like to remind you that this year is 250 years old from the establishment of today’s Central Clinical Military Hospital, which is still the main facility that supports health, first of all, our frontline veterans. Then, once again, I ask colleagues and, in particular, the finance minister to provide for a separate line of funding for this hospital, weighing one of the oldest centers in the world. Dear colleagues, I would like to address dear Yuri Anatoliyovich as to whether the sunrise depends, and the sunset, particularly from the Communists, needs to be studied. Regarding the fact that in Soviet times the difference between the present birth and the present birth was significantly higher than the death rate, it is undeniable. I will not measure whose potential system was one or the other, but that fact is a fact. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u206	Victor Terrence, faction of Block Tymoshenko. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u207	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Friends! Respectable citizens! Today, people who have been diagnosed by ideology are accused by the government of Julia Timoshenko of all sins and even of shooting Kravchenko. As they say, paragraph, we're here. But you can hear that in a month, the government of Julia Timoshenko has not changed anything. People are good, in a month, let's do the figures, specifically what Julia Timoshenko and her government did. Budget changes: the minimum pension will grow and become 332 bracelets, with no obnoxious balance; support for the birth of a child from 764 bracelets increases to 8 000 500 bracelets; assistance for single mothers from 33 to 188 bracelets; disabled persons from 225 bracelets to 543; scholarships for orphans from 76 to 127 bracelets; and a sharp increase in payments and salaries for budgeters and military personnel, from 1 January. Has nothing changed? Asking a similar question is just cassuitism. And that's because the Yanukovich government left a hole in the budget, a black hole in space, 37 billion dollars and made taxes. And this was done, I emphasize again, by Julia Timoshenko and her ranks, just like when she was PEC vice-premier, they returned pensions and payroll. But this is what the government is trying to privatize. who are well aware that when Ukraine becomes a wealthy state, a member of the European Union, they will no longer be able to do anything about it. But that's not all. Already, Julia Timoshenko and her government have put order on the same customs office, and customs revenue has tripled, i.e. Ukraine is no longer a thief smuggling state, where everything flows out, and people are learning to work without bribes. And I want to ask you, dear friends, what's important is that the state becomes such a state where all the laws have to be enforced: both the President, and the President, and the same Blochin, who changed the coaching post to the Supreme Council mandate, and that explains by saying that earlier it had been allowed to violate it. It won't happen again. And I want to. Dear friends, don't interrupt, please. And I want to say, I want to point out that when there is an urgent opposition today, the fifth column is formed outside our country, because I've already talked about it today, when Corchinsky and Vitrenco are accepted in the Kremlin, it's not going to help. I believe that this government, which has been called upon to work by the orange revolution, will continue to work and will produce good results in our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u208	Microphone, please, Bondarchuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u209	Respectable comrades, exactly two years ago, American imperialism unleashed its next war against Iraq. The purpose of this war was oil, which is understandable today. There are protests against this war around the world, and they will be in Kiev tomorrow. Saturday, tomorrow, February 19th, at 2 p.m. in the Independence field, there will be a rally with slogans "No War in Iraq", "No War in Iraq," "To conclude, we will not allow Ukraine to join NATO!" Thank you. Please give the floor to the Police to Andrei.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u210	Please, Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u211	Andrei Polit, faction of the company of Leninski Komsomol Ukraine. Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, held 16 world youth and students festivals in Venezuela-Karakasa in August this year, organized by the world's largest and most authoritative international youth organization, the World Federation of Democratic Youth. Since 1947, when the first world festival was held, this festival movement has been supported by all the world’s leading youth organizations. In previous festivals held in Cuba and Algeria, the delegation of Ukraine had a broad representation. The 16th World Festival will be held under the slogan "For Peace and Solidarity!"We fight imperialism and war." It will demonstrate the wealth of all manifestations of the international youth and student movement, become a place for sharing ideas and experiences, and provide a platform for coordinating and enhancing the efforts of national youth organizations. The World Federation of Democratic Youth from Ukraine includes the Lenin Commsomol of Ukraine and is also a member of the General Council of WFDM. On 6 September 2004, at the initiative of a number of youth organizations, an all-Ukrainian organizational committee was established to prepare for the participation of the delegation of Ukraine in the 16th World Youth and Student Festival. This committee was composed of representatives of various youth and other social organizations. It is open to all interested organizations and movements, individuals who support ideas, slogans and the spirit of the world festival movement. To date, some 20 organizations and a number of universities have expressed their desire to participate in the preparation and preparation of our delegation for the festival. During the festival, there will be substantive seminars, discussions on topical issues, creative meetings, solidarity fairs, exhibitions, artistic groups and sports competitions. And the organ committee must do its utmost to ensure that Ukraine is properly represented at the festival and actively participates in all its activities. The work on the establishment of our delegation has only just begun. It is expected to be composed of about a hundred people. In this regard, I appeal to young people and students, interested persons, and respected people's deputies. Each of you has higher education institutions in the district, and there are structures of youth and student organizations. They need to be informed about the upcoming event, about the work of the Orgcomite, and learn more about the world festival movement. It is to be hoped that youth colleges will take an interest in the festival's ideas and wish to participate. And you will provide them with effective help. We appeal to the People's Deputies to facilitate the work of the Aviation Committee in order for the Ukrainian delegation to act with dignity as part of the vast international youth movement. The Committee stands ready to provide the necessary information on all matters related to the preparation for and participation of the Ukrainian delegation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u212	Please, Maria Marcus, the Communist faction, behind her is Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u213	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. Over the period 2002-2004, the government's target budget for the Zakarpatsky District Authority's savings in payment to investors of 50 dollars each, the depositor's heirs in the size of government aid for the funeral of 150 dollars and the purchase of government interest-free bonds in 1990 totalled about 29 million 83 thousand 275 dollars. During the period 2002-2004, a total of 27 million $585 000 877 has been used for payment to the heirs of the dead and the purchase of the State interest-free bond in 1990 and the payment of compensation for the lost cash savings to investors and the recalculation of savings. Yet there is a problem. As of January 1, 2004, the remaining funds in all district offices amounted to a total of 192 thousand 921 bracelets, which according to Cabinet of Ministers decree No. 306, paragraph five, aimed at making payments for monetary savings. As of January 1, 2005, the remaining unused funds of the State Budget amount to $2 million,603 thousand, 186 dollars. It should be noted that at the end of the financial year, significant balances remain unused for the purpose of the State budget, which only after the adoption of the next decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as shown by the experience of previous years, is adopted at the end of March, the beginning of April of the month, which can be used for defined purposes. In doing so, if a change in circumstances requires certain, smaller allocations in the budget process, the Chief Budget Manager shall decide on the appropriate allocation of the State budget. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within a two-week term, submits to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the established procedure, proposals for bringing Ukraine into line with the budgetary assignments of the State Budget. Article 23, paragraph 7, of the Budget Code also states that all budgetary appointments are not valid after the end of the budget period, except in cases where a separate law provides for multi-year budgetary assignments. Therefore, it is concluded that it is legitimate to keep in the savings offices accounts a long period of significant balances not used for the purpose of budgeting. In addition, an analysis of the letters found that there were very many complaints about the failure to pay people the money. Please consider my statement as a request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Prime Minister and give an order to study the situation that has resulted in compensation fees for the savings of Ukrainian citizens and to verify the legality of keeping the accounts of the savings offices of Ukraine, including the Zacarpathian region, significant balances of unexploded unreasonably for the purpose of assigning the funds of the State Budget and adopting appropriate methods of responding to approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u214	Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. After him, Rahansky passed it on to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u215	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština My appeal from this rostrum aims at overcoming the wall of silence around a life - important problem for millions of military personnel, for those who have committed themselves to the officer’s duty to their homeland. They are far from better years of war service. But the state forgot them, more faithfully, turned away from their troubles and problems. In the same situation, military personnel were released from service in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces. What's the blame? Why should their families starve? That is why U.S. Armed Forces pensioners who have retired in various years, and military officials who have been cut short in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces, along with the Communists, are seeking to eliminate the inequality in which the flag, which has recently gone on reserve, receives a pension three times higher than the Colonel of Soviet times. Who gave the right to divide the officer corps into strangers and their own? And we, the Communists, are unanimously protesting against all branches in the system in connection with the failure to comply with the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Soldiers. Why isn't it more human to solve the issue of social protection of military personnel? This initiative does not implement the Law on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces? Because this law establishes the legal basis for the protection of military personnel, social protection is guaranteed. For example, in the first article, paragraph 1-3 states that military personnel who are released from military service are paid cash assistance in the size and order laid down in the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. It is not clear that paragraph 12 of this article, which states: military personnel who are released from the Ukrainian Armed Forces in connection with their reform, are granted the status of a veteran of military service in the event of service for 20 years and more in the calendar calculation or 25 years or more in the extended calculation. That is why we, Communists, in the Supreme Council and in cities, demand the immediate elimination of discrimination in the pension provision of military personnel. And I would like you to count my statement as a parliamentary request to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u216	Please, Jaroslav Suhi. After him, Migovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u217	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, especially from the industrial and industrial regions of Ukraine! I would like to express my deep concern from the Supreme Council's rostrum about seemingly awkward, unprofessional and, in fact, the future consequences of harmful hostile actions by the new-old authorities in relation to the domestic producer, the domestic market, and the prospects for improving the social sphere. It's nice to see in the draft budget the number of promised social expenditure, but we know very well that social policy is not budgeting, it's new jobs, it's wage growth, it's an increase in the purchasing power of citizens, it's the development of the internal market. This is, after all, the focus on working populations, the creation by the State of conditions under which workers raise their welfare by virtue of personal contribution, entrepreneurship and business activity. But real things, the first real steps of the new government not only cause division, but also anxiety, including among investors both in their own and abroad, among the financial and industrial circles of Ukraine. What are the authorities' reprivatization initiatives worth, or nationalization, or simply trying to allocate the basic means of production? Interestingly, some major attention is paid to businesses in areas that did not support the Yuschenk, who either alone, without the help of the State, with the efforts of the labour force, or with the support of investors in the wake of a deep crisis, are now working successfully and steadily. In general, they were at risk of destabilization in the workplace, the collapse of investment programs, and the collapse of social infrastructure. For example, one of Zaporozhye’s successful industrial enterprises is the open stock company Zaporozhye aluminum combination. During the period 2001 - 2004, an investor invested about $60 million in the production of a combination of bankruptcy, and before that, the State received nearly $70 million in shares. Doesn't Kabmin know about this, doesn't he know that a competitor of today's investor has in his own time shown that, apart from ambitions, he doesn't have anything, and most of all, he didn't have any money? Maybe the government doesn't know that because of the constant litigation of the same investor's failure, it was the courts who stopped meeting the conditions of the investment and the refinancing? Some claims of ZALCO, whose 2005 collective agreement on social guarantees is defined by Ukrainian trade unions as one of the best in the field, allowing him to prepare conditions that will artificially put the combination on the brink of collapse. The difference in the differential tariff on electricity is the main technological component of the combination. The first damage in this kind of money is going to be 40 million dollars minus the government budget, and here's social policy. So whether the Zaporozium Aluminum Combine invests in 2005 the production of 92 million dollars or not. Production -- we get an answer when our authority comes back, finally, from the playground and takes out the orange glasses -- and takes care of the host. Because it's really a lot of us, we need to work and feed this power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u218	Please, Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Behind him is Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, voters! From this important rostrum, the difficult life of my fellow countrymen has often been discussed. Like the population of other regions of Ukraine, they are once again troubled. In addition to socio-economic hardships, the Carpathians are troubled by economic hardships. The catastrophic effects of floods are commonplace. Today, however, I have to draw public attention to the new phenomenon: recent attempts have been made to import dangerous products and harmful wastes from neighbouring Central European countries. In Berogovo, for example, a small enterprise called the Ozone has received hundreds of wagons from the transnational Eltex concert for the last three years from so-called mineral fertilizers for agriculture, and actually imported compounds that are part of the so-called yellow list banned by the Basel Convention and our government. Over the past year, 37 tons of banned substances have been found. A similar incident occurred last year when synthetic rubber, rubber plating, decumyl peroxide was imported under the mineral code. Powder resin and other harmful compounds. Last year as a filler. Three Tyre Wagons, three high formaldehyde timber plates, have come to the address of the small ozone company in Hungary. [[It's in Berogovo.]] These and other compounds were burned in the Great Good and the village of Kosino Beregovsky and Uzhgorod region, which is in an area where tourist routes and unique thermal waters are found, nothing. did not receive the local budget, and in manufacturing and burning these substances, dioxins are formed, which are known to be cancer and other diseases, including chlorate skin, which has been affected by our current president. In recent times, Carpathia has become a transit for such compounds in other regions as well. Eltec, mentioned earlier, made a contract with the state-owned Mercury Company, VAT, the Mikitov Mercury Combine, to import many times with shale and other mercury-containing wastes in the amount of 1 million pounds. [[It's in Gorlovka.]] That's 40 or 50 cars. You can list many other problems, and I've made a parliamentary request for this, but knowing the fate of the previous authorities, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection again, and the Attorney General's Office to seriously check these and other facts and give them a proper legal assessment. In addition, I would ask the central authorities to provide for and protect Ukraine’s environmental security guarantees and mechanisms in order to encourage Euro-integration processes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u220	Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction. Prepare Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u221	Dear Adam Ivanovich, as you and I have remained almost double in the hall, I ask your permission so that I may address the Ukrainian people. Respectable voters! Today, at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of payment for the birth of the first child was seriously considered. Well, there were 21 minimum wages for the first payment, but I have to say that these are only the paid expectations of the demographic explosion. A demographic explosion would require the hope of the Ukrainian people. I just want to remember the fact of the story. When it turned out after the Great Homeland War that Belarus’s population was quarter, that is, killed every 4 Belarusians, the birth rate in Belarus was the highest in the Soviet Union and in Europe at all, including the higher birth rate in Central Asia. Because then the people had confidence in their future. We don't have that kind of confidence. One of the most acute social problems in our country today remains the poor health condition. The level of morbidity of the population, as in general the situation in the industry, is critical. According to 2003 only 42 per cent of the population were considered to be healthy; the remaining 58 per cent required systemic treatment. The health situation, social and economic protection of industry workers, is extremely difficult. The cost of health care per citizen of Ukraine is 111 seats among 190 countries. Over the past 15 years, the logistics of the health sector has remained scarce. The percentage of health costs for the total gross domestic product in 2005 is expected to be 2.8 per cent, significantly lower than the requirements of Ukrainian health legislation and 10 per cent of gross domestic product. The average level of payment of health workers with a trend towards the poverty line is two lower than the subsistence minimum laid down in Ukrainian legislation and holds 29th last place among other sectors of the population. In fact, there are no real mechanisms. the legal and economic protection of the worker, which has significantly reduced the level of public recognition of the profession of medicine. The Cabinet of Ministers' Ordinance on the remuneration of workers on the basis of a single tariff network and so on has not been in force for the past two years. Therefore, there is simply no reason for us to expect an alleged demographic explosion in the absence of grounds for medical care. We must therefore pay particular attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u222	Please, Anisimov, the Communist faction. Follow him, Phydenko, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u223	Anisymov, the Communist faction, the city of Dneprodj yinsk. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable remaining few colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! Two years ago, the Bush administration embarked on another phase of peace transfer by military force. Iraq was another victim of the aggressor. Involved in the United Nations on the fabricated pretext of the search for and elimination of weapons of mass destruction, the protection of national minorities and the democratization of Iraq. The United States invaded and occupied a sovereign State. On Earth, the efforts of Americans and their satellites have created another bleeding ulcer, another hotbed of tension. As a result, some 100,000 Iraqis have already died, there is hunger and unemployment, and Iraq is on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe. The historical values of ancient civilizations in Mesopotamia and Medjugorje have been destroyed and looted. There are casualties and aggressors among the troops that have occupied Iraq, more than 2,000 dead and 14,000 wounded. Regrettably, there are losses in the Ukrainian contingent, respectively: 19 deaths and 40 injuries. Only under the pressure of the communists and organizations supporting us have the Government and the President agreed to begin the withdrawal and the Ukrainian military contingent from Iraq. But it's a private success. The world's progressive public is working to end Iraq's occupation and enable its people to build their own destiny. In many countries tomorrow, 19 March, there will be massive protests against Bush's policy, against the war in Iraq, against the total robbery of countries called the Third World. Tomorrow, 19 March, at 2 p.m., in the square of Independence in Kiev, an anti-military committee of Ukraine, comprising more than 40 political parties and social organizations, held a rally under slogan: "For world peace!"Let's get the Ukrainian troops out of Iraq!"No involvement of Ukraine in NATO!" Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u224	Stanislaw Phydenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u225	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished electorate, the Volin District Council asked me to support the sector and representatives of culture and the arts of the area when it was considered and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the 2005 budget. The 2005 Minfina of Ukraine budget allocations for culture and the arts in the area provide only payroll, taking into account the introduction of a new minimum wage of inter-employment rates, payments and so on as of 1 January 2005. As in previous years, there are no real possibilities for the final elimination of underemployment of cultural workers. Although the amount of the budget for the current year is partly increased by expenditure for this purpose. Yet an additional amount of about 2 million is only 50 percent as needed. Considering that the Act on Compulsory Social Insurance became effective on January 1, this year, the issue becomes particularly critical and acute, since nearly half of cultural workers continue to work part - time and thus will be deprived of State-defined social security. Considering that the Volin region is not a densely populated area, but with a well-developed network of cultures that meets the standards of cultural security, please the Budget Committee, Minfin and Minculture, when amending the 2005 State Budget indicators, to allocate additional funding to institutions and district utilities and to completely eliminate the partial employment of rural cult workers in the area. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary appeal to the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council and the Ministries of Finance and Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-18-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. The following week, national deputies work in committees, factions, and groups. I will remind you that there will be additional plenary meetings on March 24th.
