ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u1	Please, dear fellows, please take your seats. We will continue our work. Invite the national deputies to the session room, as we have very important questions to consider. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Enable the “Race” system. [[16:03:24]] It was registered in the 414 National Deputies Session Hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, re-reading, registration number 2209-d. Hennady Rudenko, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, please. Dear colleagues! Here is the second draft law amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Environment on the Distribution of Communities for Damaged 2209-1. The committee head proposes to consider two of these bills because they are linked. And to vote, to vote separately, there are no warnings. Then please, Gennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u2	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill that we are about to consider concerns congregations for pollution of the environment. Indeed, a number of businesses are able to avoid pollution, and the cost is paid for which local, district, regional, or republican environmental funds are then formed. The current legislation allows, in fact, almost 100 percent of the costs that come from enterprises in the form of pollution payments to be used in a reverse direction to finance conservation programs in one enterprise or another. Unfortunately, though, there is a practice where it is difficult to get enough money from the fund to finance the businesses that pay these costs, and so for many businesses the awareness of these congregations is not a payment for pollution but a tax. Unfortunately, these are the effects of a system that has long dominated the system. The bill, which I refer to as an initiator, refers to changing the system and motivating the enterprise, as was done earlier in the experiment that worked in the mining and metallurgical complex. Thus, 10 percent remained in the local fund, 10 percent remained in the environmental fund, and 10 percent remained in the republican fund. And 70 percent remained in a special account in enterprises that are part of the mining and metallurgical complex. The bill is actually going through the first rereading procedure, so we would certainly like this bill to get proposals in order to actually make the second reading more systematic if you approve. And so once again, the only desire is to break the bribe system, which sometimes comes up to get its own money to finance programs, to make it as transparent as the experiment has been, which has proven to be quite successful. The chamber of accounts examined an experiment in a mining and metallurgical complex that related to environmental costs and concluded that only six percent of the funds were untargeted. And so the experiment turned out to be pretty good. So the proposal is to support the first reading of 2209-d. As for the bill of the next Mr. Klimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u3	Yeah, right after the second bill of 2209.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u4	2209-1 is Mr. Klimov's bill. It's about changing proportions. I'm going to remind you today that there's an existing scale of redistribution for environmental pollution. Today’s proportion is as follows: 30 percent go to the Republic’s environmental fund, 50 percent remain in the area, and 20 percent remain in the area. Mr. Klimov’s bill proposes to change the existing distribution in this way: 50 percent refer to local environmental funds, 20 percent to district and 30 percent to republican. Well, actually, change the distribution between the local environmental fund and the district fund. There is also Bill 2209-2 by Mr. Bysarov, which refers to taking into account in the draft Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act a new rule that will also take into account the location of the source of pollution, taking into account the territory to which pollution is caused. That is, to unite Mr. Bysarov’s bill altogether, perhaps if Mr. Matvienkov and Boyko, who are initiators of the 2209 bill, agree. And this is such a technical moment, Mr. Bysarov suggests, because quite often we will not be able to find the ultimate person responsible for pollution by means of means of pollution. It's either there's compressors or some other technical equipment that's polluting. Registered in one area and working as a service service in another area. So the money should be redistributed to the benefit of the region where it was. There was pollution. The proposal in general is to support the bills in the first reading, and by the second reading, we will try to unify all the initiatives of the deputies and make a system law. So for the Supreme Council's ruling, a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u5	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? There's a question. Please sign in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u6	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Gennady Borisovich! I'd like to ask you if you don't think that the bill you're reporting right now is actually there. I should report to the Committee on Budgets because it has absolutely nothing to do with the protection of the natural environment. And I was surprised at all that whole set of changes that are proposed in one version and the other. It is only suggested that the money should be placed in the pocket and that it should be left in the businesses to control themselves. True, some authors have suggested that a colossal fine be imposed there and so forth. But the State budget has huge losses, and the local budget has also lost. Only businesses that now pollute life will win, rather than force them to introduce such standards, so that they clean up the air so that we do not destroy people. We have a TB epidemic, do you remember that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, first of all, I would like to. I don't want us to be so observant about this kind of initiative, because it's about that often we're talking about some kind of initiative. The thing is, yes, indeed, many industries think that the pollution congregation is a tax. And that's the main mistake we've been living with for over 10 years. It's not a tax. But the motivation of entrepreneurs today to introduce technology is, unfortunately, quite weak, because we know, because of the thorns that we need to go through the enterprise that has paid for pollution and actually has a 100% right to use these funds for technological change, we know what bribes that are causing together. That's why there's gotta be motivation. Of course, the whole world is dominated by the idea that the polluter pays. All over the world, "ecology" is a pretty expensive standard. And I'm sorry that in the Supreme Council, it's sad that in the Cabinet of Ministers since 1996, unfortunately, the price index for pollution has only changed one and a half times as the cost of electricity, gas, labor has increased. And that, I think, is on your conscience, and me, and everyone else. We need to make sure that these amounts are actually more serious. Unfortunately for the budget, I don't think this has anything to do with the budget, because we, in the Supreme Council, unfortunately, in the Cabinet of Ministers, have a temptation: the funds that are meant to be used in a targeted way for the environment are geared towards general action. I think I'm looking forward to a rather serious conflict around the Kyoto Protocol when there's a lot of demand for the funds that can be delivered from the sale of quotas, as well as for them to go to the general budget fund. But by law, all of this has to be directed towards improving environmental protection. And today in Ukraine, I'm reporting, there are 8,000 335 units of different types of environmental funds. The cost of these funds is 4,000 dollars. So a systemless approach to this program leads to the fact that 4,000 per unit of the Fund is just a salary to pay to officials and everyone. So it's better to use these funds under environmental control, pollution companies, and eliminate the problem of pollution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u8	Thank you. Gennady Borisovich, please sit down. Communicator Matvienkov. Please, Bill 2209-D.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. I would like to begin now to answer our colleague Karmazin's question. The problem of ecology is one of the sickest and most serious problems that are unfortunately being reported today, but very little is being done. It is particularly concerned about large industrial regions such as Donbass, Curve Horn, Zaporozhye. And here we need to divide this problem, and let's divide it into the conversations that go around it and into the specific things that are being done around the environment and how this problem is being solved. Today, the question is whether we will continue to speculate on this topic and recall the environment when the next election company begins, or once and for all we will solve this problem so that payment mechanisms can address the issue of emissions on the ground. What causes this situation? Because the bill proposes to change the methodology. Today's paradox: the more we pollute the atmosphere, the more money gets to the center. I ask whether there is a point today for the Centre to reduce emissions on the ground if it is aware tomorrow that reducing emissions will reduce the revenue it will dispose of. I say, he'll never make it in his life. And a paradoxical situation on the ground. Have any of these major industrial sites respond today: who has received the central-source targeted payments for the work that would allow them to reduce emissions to the atmosphere today? No one at all. We need to be clear today: it's not a tax, it's the money that's going to protect the environment. It is the money that must go to the facilities that must be reformed to protect the environment. This model is not new. We were when we were taking the experiment in the metallurgical complex. We've tried this model. Let me give you some specific examples. There you go. As production grew by 9 million tonnes, we reached 37 per cent of the increase in production in those years. We've cut steel emissions by one tonne by 0.04 tons, that's almost twice. Compared to previous years, let's say 1994-1998, we were able to reduce emissions by only 16 per cent in the same methodology. Ilic’s combination has introduced a Spike system and continues to work in this direction. The Austal combination introduced electro-filters into the domain office. The Zaporoztal combination bought sleeve filters. So the question is one thing. The monitoring system has been put into place in such a way that the three committees have chosen which enterprises are involved in the case and have approved the project as specific. For each ruble, fines were not imposed in a colossal amount. Today we must answer the question of whether we will address environmental issues, or whether we will continue to build on this subject only from the political side, so to speak. When beneficial, we remember these regions, when not beneficial, we begin to forget them. That's why I'm proposing to the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Is there a question for a coconspirator? None. Bill 2209 of the rapporteur for the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Bysarov Leonid Volodymyrovich. There is a proposal for a committee to adopt a bill, registration number 2209-D. The conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration is to take into account the comments that have been made. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[on the use of pollution payments]] [[re-read]] Please vote. [[16:19:46]] For 221 To -221. Against 0. Hold on to 0. Please, Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Here are two bills, and if the first one, I understand it, I didn't just take on the reason that practically the enterprise that pays the fine is that money coming back to him and there's practically nothing in his responsibility. What I paid for -- almost everything came back, I think, because 70 percent came back to the company, and the methodology and the agitation that came out of the committee was right. Therefore, let us take the second bill as a basis, and the distribution of money should be seen not to go to the top, but to be used under the control of local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u12	Yes, thank you, turn on the microphone of National Deputy Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u13	I'm surprised, in principle, that kind of talk when they say there's no control over money that goes environmentally. In general, this person needs to come to Krivo Rog or Mariupol or Zaporozhye and understand one thing, money is being transferred all the time, and today it is normal, but this money allows officials here in Kiev to use wherever it is, and if it is virtually impossible to protect any project here, and the law is clearly defined and I assure you that not one penny is going anywhere but to improve the environment in these areas where the environment is truly scary. Therefore, I ask to vote, to vote, and the colleague who has just spoken is simply, I think he does not know the essence of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u14	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Rudenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u15	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues! There is an offer, perhaps for some time to be given for discussion, because for many colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u16	Copy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u17	There's not enough time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u18	Since there are differences of opinion, there is a proposal to exchange thoughts from both bills together. Please sign up for the discussion. Yes, the national deputy of Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u19	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski Jovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block Dear colleagues, it's only natural that this bill, and one and the other, is going through such a painful path already, in fact, of re-reading the first reading, and we still can't find consensus, we can't find a common language, and it probably has to lead us to think that one and the other bills, unfortunately too, are imperfect or, well, don't exhaust the very problem that we have in Ukraine today. Because given that a few times on the first call, it seems that even on the second, we've already asked the question that Ukraine in general should be declared a zone of environmental disaster, especially after Chernobyl. And if you look at all of our technologies, which are actually pre-war or pre-war, or energy-efficient, that pollute the environment, it's pretty clear that this is a question that Boyko has just spoken so painfully. Because I understand very well what this huge giant means to him, which means the same problem. On my, it would seem, on the only fifth of all in the district of this border that we have, I also have a colossal literal expression -- this is the former giant chemical combination that was still running in Khrushcheva's years, because it was necessary to produce mineral fertilizers. Remember, "plus chemistry"? Then no one thought it would be worth it. Today, Ukraine has, once again, a huge problem on this small five: When sulphur was selected, water from all over the world reached this boiler, and today we have huge karst failures and so forth. And here's a specific example of those proportions, let's say we have these contributions that go to the area of 20 percent, 30 remains. 30 goes downtown and the rest stays here. This is a concrete, literal example: What this sulfur can solve in order to bind this colossal, frightening environmental expression, a problem that. Broke up, literally half of this area. That's why I tend to be grateful to the committee for its work. And really, it's a very painful question for us. Sooner or later, the signing of the Kyoto Protocol will become a problem. Russia's coming back. Yeah, Russia's still coming, and America, I get it. But it has to be done. Sign is one thing, but that's it. And we're facing this problem. Because of this, let's say today this three-step payment is completely unsatisfying. To say that I know the answer to that question, I say quite frankly: I don't know if I leave it all in place, and if it doesn't get as silent as the others, and if I don't give it all away to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u20	Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u21	Dear colleagues! I'd just like to shed some light on some questions. First, both the law is perfect, and the mechanism is understandable, and not all 100 per cent are put there, but only 70 per cent. Just one question to answer is that there is a desire for not all 100 per cent of the money to go to the central fund, and then the silencer was distributed, or clearly, into a specific programme went into place and solved issues and problems of emissions, reduction of emissions. So, automatically, do we want to reduce emissions in Zaporozhye, in Mariupola, in Curve Horn, in Dnepropetrovsk, or do we not want to? Or we want the money to go to conferences and so on and so forth. That's the question. Now, the control system, the list of enterprises is approved by three committees, the programme is approved by the Ministry plus the Committee. There is a control system. In the event of non-compliance, penalties shall be imposed. Up to a penny, the money is paid back to the budget, and it is paid by the same enterprises. So who's to blame for this? What is it? Let us speak honestly and frankly: we are about to solve the problem of ecology in the region, or we are going to do it on the principle that in Kiev we will sit in Kiev, and on the ground we will be suffocating, giving away the gross domestic product from those enterprises that are now creating economic power and potential. Please, here's the question, and here's the solution. And I ask you to give the floor to the chairman of the committee, what I have left.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u22	In three minutes. Here comes Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u23	Thank you. The thing is, my dear colleagues, it's because of the problem I've said. Since 1996, the indexation paid for pollution, I've been paying attention again, it's only a factor and a factor and a half. Changes in the cost of labor, electricity has been much higher. So today, at the expense of ecology, we are subsidizing our economy. We're preparing for WTO, we're preparing for European standards, so we need to prepare the economy for tough competition and change technology now. Motivation of businesses and business owners is not enough today. So when we do it in a way that allows 70 percent to be left on the specs, I'm sure we'll have enough capacity in the hall to make pollution real, not the drops that are today, but the real, hard, painful, serious. But we're going to convince the industrialists that we have to do this. They will have the motivation to agree, for today they do not see this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u24	Mironenko. Yuri Petrovich, did you sign up?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u25	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we've had a very lively debate on these drafts on a professional committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The points of view expressed can be divided into two parts. On the one hand, away from centralization, away from the state, and let those who do harm to nature do so. They know better how to do this. That's one point of view. And the second point of view is that if we transfer the money right over there, despite the programs and the different ways of controlling it, they're going to do everything they can to keep the money in place, and the damage to the environment remains at the same level as it is, even though everyone is crying and hurting about how harmful we are. harmful environment. So this is where we need to be more specific about who should not only observe, but be responsible for these complex processes, starting with the state level and ending with the production itself, which is related to these problems. So I want to remind you that on February 4, 2003, a decree was issued by the President of Ukraine on the decision taken by the Ukrainian Council of Security and Defence since November 2002 on the state of technological and natural security of Ukraine, which was commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the 6-month period to develop a project on a national environmental fund. This bill should set out the order of involvement, distribution and use of environmental pollution and environmental resources. And the proposals for the allocation of funds received as environmental pollution payments between budgets of all levels should be considered in the design and development of the National Environment Facility project. Or we're going to have a state environmental policy and there's going to be this fund that's going to be responsible for these processes, or we're going to give it all to a big, medium or small business that's trying so hard to assure us today that it's going to make everything okay. So I suggest in the first reading that we support the draft basic bill and look at all the other proposals that touch on the regulation of these relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u26	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u27	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Of course, the bill currently under consideration is very interesting, the bills are more faithful, because their series are interesting in their approach to the main issue. Actually, I'd like to see something more from the environmental committee. I'd like to see how I can stop those massive discharges into the atmosphere that are going absolutely around. I would also like the environmental committee to initiate a question about how to ban today from importing vehicles that are no longer responding, the euro-2 and euro-3 that are being imported into Ukraine today, and that is how we are burying our people today. And today, to bring the problem straight to a direct redistribution of funds, i.e. if the State budget had previously gone 20 percent, now to change these proportions, according to the local budget, now to change these ratios in proportion to 10 state environmental funds, 10 local councils, 10 state budgets and 70 percent to keep the enterprise. This is not to be summed up. Why? Because people think that now they're going to take some measures at the factories, they're going to put filters and everything. And I want to ask, "What about the treatment of those people who are already victims of these factories, what are we going to rely on, who are we going to rely on?" Yes, so the honourable national MPs, let's take a look at how we've become the most TB, how many things have deteriorated in people's immunity, so the problem is very complicated. Furthermore, I believe that from the point of view of the Law, when a bill defining the Cabinet of Ministers has to agree on a list of enterprises that will pay the congregation for the new procedure with the relevant committees of the Supreme Council. Does this correspond to the Constitution or the Supreme Council Committee Act, Article 6? No, he's not. Now they're yelling at me: it's a compromise. The Constitution sees no compromise, the Constitution says: "Honorable, or so, in accordance with Article 19 in the manner provided for in the Law and the Constitution, they must adopt the Law." I mean, they have no right to agree with the Cabinet of Ministers. And I don't think it's a compromise, nor is it a compromise what we decide today after we adopt the budget, how we're going to come to the budgets of different levels and to the funds. Both the Budget Committee and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine would have to listen. We haven't heard from them today. I'd like to give them my word. I won't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u28	From the government, please. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Alexiyovich, honourable members of the people, I would ask you not to support the three bills listed for the following reasons. First of all, with regard to Bill 2209-d, this adoption by the Supreme Council of the bill will lead to a substantial reduction in the availability of state and local environmental funds, some 130 million dollars. It will complicate Ukraine’s introduction to the world organization of trade and the acquisition of appropriate software systemic loans from the World Bank. The laws on the granting of benefits on a branch basis conflict with the position of the documents that regulates these matters. In addition, there will be a significant reduction in funding. State and local conservation programmes. With regard to the bill, the distinguished People's Deputy Baysarov, in order to implement it, it requires extremely significant additional budgetary, financial and human resources that will have to be deployed to ensure the implementation of the bill. This is due to the need to create a fairly broad monitoring system, which the ministry is certainly working on. At the same time, it still needs to be created. With regard to the bill of Honorary People's Deputy Klimov, this bill will allow a substantial dispersion of environmental funds rather than a certain amount of accumulation to address public problems. Clearly, there are problems in the distribution, the use of funds. But these problems could be solved as if we could support the National Environmental Fund draft in our second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u29	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[on the use of pollution payments]] [[re-read]] Please vote. [[16:38:41]] For 223 Project rejected. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[concerning the distribution of congregations for damage caused]] Please vote. [[16:39:15]] For 176 The bill was removed. We'll come back after. The draft laws amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 3,489, 3684, 4242, are now under review. [[on the criteria for the definition of small enterprises]] Decisions are being considered and taken on the basis of a reduced procedure, reports by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rajkov, and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Komar. Please Boris Sergiyovich Rykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u30	Ryekov 200 Cherkassa district, the "Deminicatives" group. Dear Alexander Alexievich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Bill No. 3489 on amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on business regulation is given to your attention and 3684 on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Commerce. These bills offer a clear definition of small businesses, i.e. small enterprises. The criteria are the average number of employees in the reporting period, should not exceed 50 persons and annual gross income should not exceed the amount equivalent to EUR 5 million in exchange for the current Euro500,000. Why is this being done? According to statistics in the structure of production costs, labour costs amount to about 10 per cent, which is equivalent to €88 per month or €469. On that basis, in the case of gross income approved by the law, an employee of a small enterprise has the right to earn only 469 bracelets per month, which is slightly higher than the subsistence minimum that we have recently accepted with you. First, small enterprises lose the ability to introduce high technologies that allow production to increase and, at the same time, to raise wages. Who's gonna do high-tech for 400 grevens? Secondly, it is not possible to achieve the level of wage of the EU labour countries that Ukraine is preparing to join. In developed countries, 70.80 per cent of enterprises operate in small and medium-sized enterprises. That is 50,70 per cent of GDP is generated in the small business sector in Eastern European countries with economies in transition, resulting in rapid growth of small enterprises in the first half of the 1990s. In Ukraine, the proportion of small enterprises does not reach 10 per cent. It should be borne in mind that new and progressive technologies are being developed and introduced in Ukraine, and high-production equipment is being used in production. As a result, the productivity of modern technologies is increasing. Analysis of the production activities of technical armed enterprises in a number of areas, such as machinery, food, light industry, medicine, pharmaceuticals, shows that a small number of productions per job can exceed 100,000 euros per year. When considering the law, it was often feared that the adoption of the law could result in budget losses, revenue. I must note that these fears have no basis. On the contrary, the budget will increase, and in the near future. When the gross product is increased, there will be a fixed tax, independent of the profits of the enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u31	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. National Deputy of Ukraine Mikola Stepanovich Komar Is it? None. The correspondent is invited to the report by Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u32	Dear Alexander Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration are bills, registration numbers 3489, 3684, 4242, which aim to establish a quantitative criterion for the classification of enterprises as small enterprises and to set the annual gross income limit of five million euros. The committee, after considering these bills, noted that this issue deserves attention, but we do not agree with the definition of a small enterprise for these reasons. First of all, it should be noted that for the state of the national economy today, the draft law defines the annual gross revenue threshold for small enterprises of 5 million euros is, in our view, too high and premature. Secondly, the introduction of proposed criteria, the placement of legal entities in small businesses will automatically increase the total number of small business entities. And we have a number of complex laws. on State support for small businesses is a number of complex measures aimed at the implementation of State support to address small business problems in Ukraine. The result of these proposed changes will be that the law will result in enterprises that do not objectively need State support and cannot concentrate the State’s efforts on supporting the bottom-up chain of enterprises that are the most vulnerable and, indeed, have the right to receive State aid. And I also want to pay particular attention to the fact that, on the first reading, you and I have already adopted the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Businesses in Ukraine, this is registration number 1216, which defines the criteria for referring businesses to both small and micro-enterprises and medium-sized enterprises. So we propose these three bills to re-read, to have our committee present a single point of view after the discussion we are about to have. And then, colleagues, next month, there's going to be a normal bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u33	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Philip Philipovich Budzigan, a member of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. He's a reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u34	Deputies! On May 13, last year, the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment at its meeting reviewed the draft law on amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the establishment of "small enterprise" criteria, registration number 4242. I'll inform you of the position of the committee. The bill proposes to amend article 63, paragraph 7, of the Master's Code for Small Enterprises and article 2, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Act on Entrepreneurship in Ukraine. The essence of the change is to increase to 5 million euros the amount of gross revenue from the implementation of products, services, jobs, the current 500 thousand euro standard. Similarly, correct Ukraine’s Business Act. At its meeting, the committee recommended the adoption of Law 4242 as a basis for first reading. But after consulting the Yehanurov Committee, with the Industrial Committee, in principle, I agree that, indeed, these three bills should be sent for re-reading and entrusted to the Industrial Affairs Committee to issue a single bill for discussion in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u35	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Let's move on to the discussion. Get ready, Mironka. Please prepare in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u36	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity Block "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenka. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard all three drafts and heard the committee's opinion. In my opinion, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov has clearly and correctly defined himself, and the committee has rightly determined that high figures are: so far, the annual gross income is not more than 500 000 euros, and now it is written, "It does not exceed five million," 10 times. What has changed in the state so that we can do 10 times at once? Do we not create artificial enterprises that refer to small businesses? Look at the big one, huge wherever you want: in Kiev, in any state. It consists only of small businesses. Look at other businesses, factories. They are also made up of small businesses. Why? Well, it's also easier to pass taxes. Well, what, we're going to continue to do this, just under a sign that we're going to the European Union? I think that's the wrong approach. I think it is necessary, and the purpose of this is simply to expand the simplified system of taxation of these operators. This is the only purpose of this bill. No situation will improve this bill for the state. What is more, it will bring chaos and we need to hear a new government that will literally be appointed and will be. Takes responsibility for the whole breakup they've made right now during the election campaign. In the whole breakup, when taxes are taken in advance today, that money is no longer enough when some serious decision is to be made, and it's still stretching and it's not going to be state-owned. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to consider adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation, but not at the same price, not at the cost of concessions to the State budget and the actual cover-up of the State's deception. So I have a lot of comments about this bill, and my dear one of them might say that we have criteria for referring to small businesses so far, depending on the level of economic development of Ukraine. So far, it's different from what's happening in the countries of the European Union. I will vote against the adoption of these laws, and I suggest you send all three laws to read again, as the committee has suggested. This will contribute to Ukraine’s national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u37	Mironenko, the Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u38	5 constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. Respectable compatriots! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support the Committee's proposal for the following reasons. First, the adoption of the bills before us will bring harm to both the economy and the people of Ukraine. The simplified tax system is not a good life at all, but because small enterprises that attract large numbers of job seekers need it, do not have the ability to have any extra accounting equipment and so on, to prepare documents for taxpayers and much more. Once these bills are adopted, the de facto simplified tax system is reduced, and this will contribute to the same corruption. Why do we keep talking about corruption? We are literally tempted to increase opportunities for corruption. Here, quite a lot of large enterprises will try to enter the same standard in small enterprises in order to be able to work on a simplified tax system. Indeed, small, small enterprises will be extremely affected, and they will be defrauded. As a result, families will suffer. Because you know who these little entrepreneurs are, they're former teachers, doctors and so on. People who work in these small enterprises will also suffer. They'll be out of a job. This will damage the budget. Well. and should also be borne in mind that the scope of goods and services will be affected. Thank God, that's the only thing that's very little good right now, most of the bad things that appear in our lives are capitalist orientation. The only thing, maybe, or one of the few positive qualities that sinks in the negative is that the service sector has improved a little bit. This has to be admitted, and this has to be supported. But once again, the same people who seem to have decided to strike or perhaps simply do not realize it, God forbid they should be aware of it. Therefore, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, taking into account the need for economic development, the need to provide jobs and to increase such opportunities for employment, the reduction of unemployment, the improvement of the scope of goods and services, proposes that bills be sent to prepare a good bill that will truly serve the economy and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u39	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u40	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'm as impressed as we are in this case when we're looking at these bills. What seems to have been the drafters of the bill and the professional committees and the scientific and expert boards did not give the authors timely indication that there is a definition, there are the criteria for small enterprises in the basic project of the Business Act in Ukraine, number 1216, which has already been mentioned in one of the statements from this rostrum. So I'd also like to ask the professional committees that will probably get these bills to work out, to do everything I can to avoid such distressing issues. And second, there's this definition that I'm going to stress in Russian: what's good for a German is death for a Russian man. So when we have to make some comparisons with European experience and, if you'll excuse me, sometimes it's ridiculous to transfer to our Ukrainian soil, it can always be dangerous. It's dangerous for those who use such laws. For example, if, according to the criteria offered by a small enterprise, there are no more than 50 people, even if they get 1,000 dollars of average wage, we multiply it by 12 months, then we multiply it by the euro's currency and we get about 2.5 million euros. But there's still a part of the money that has to go on to develop production and so on, but we know that there's never such a wage in the absolute majority of small businesses. So another criterion that we've been offered is to increase the basic annual gross income from 500,000 euros to 5 million, 10 times. Of course, it's premature. So I would like to agree with my colleagues who are proposing that all these bills be sent to the committees for a second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u41	Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u42	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Today, Parliament is considering three draft laws to amend business regulation, to amend the Code of Masters, to introduce small enterprises into certain laws to establish criteria for the concept. The main content of these bills is to increase the annual gross annual income of small enterprises from 500,000 euros to 5 million euros. Such changes really make sense, since if a small enterprise has 50 employees, the annual gross income of 500,000 euros is only 833 euros per employee per month. Understandably, under such conditions a small enterprise is no longer able to pay wages and taxes for further development. A large part of small businesses under such restrictions are forced to hide part of their income in order to preserve the status of small businesses. Of course, such conditions create conditions for the spread of the shadow sector of the Ukrainian economy. On the basis of the above, we consider the proposal of drafters to increase the annual gross income of small enterprises to 5 million. The relevant changes should be made to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Small Business and the Ukrainian Economic Code. With regard to world practice on this issue, the following values can be noted for the marginal sales volume of small businesses in developed countries. For example, in the U.S. in the service sector, annual sales should not exceed $13.5 million. In agriculture 3.5. In Germany, small businesses include those with no more than 50 employees and annual turnover of up to 10 million euros. Thus, the five million euros proposed in the bills, as the maximum gross annual income of small businesses, is a perfectly reasonable level for Ukrainian entrepreneurs. However, we agree with the comments made by the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship and, in view of the need for further development of small businesses in Ukraine, we consider it appropriate to re-read Bills 3489, 3684, 4242. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u43	From the Committee on Legal Policy, Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk, please prepare for Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u44	Mikola Onischuk, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. The Grand Chief! Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting had considered bills that were being discussed and, in particular, Bill 3684 and recommended to Parliament that the criteria and parameters for defining small enterprises should not remain unchanged and should not be affected by the economic phenomena that took place in society. At the same time, a number of proposals and comments to the bill were made at the committee meeting, which should actually be taken into account in the drafting of the bill, as recommended by the now-involved Economic Policy Committee. In particular, firstly, the bill does not fully meet the requirements and standards of the European Union, and we cannot fail to take this into account. Secondly, the change in criteria is referred to in the small category, as has already been noted, will allow for a significant expansion in the circle of enterprises that will have tax benefits. And in fact today, obviously, I don't know if the government is going to report, we can't have a clear forecast of how this will affect the income situation. Thirdly, the project, and this is essentially a legal, actually legal observation, violates the project defined in part seven of this article of the 63rd Master Code, the ratio of small, medium and large enterprises to gross income. Since it will be necessary, if we change the gross income parameters of a small enterprise, we will increase medium and large accordingly. And fourthly, the committee made a recommendation that the parameters of small business placement, the more loyal enterprises to the small group, should be set up depending on whether the enterprise is directly engaged in production or whether it is engaged in a commercial medium. This is an important circumstance that should also be taken into account. In general, honourable colleagues, the decision that is being proposed today by the Committee on Profile Policy, the Committee on Profiles, is obviously wise and can be taken as a basis for further work on the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u45	Thank you. Before you know it, Black Vladimir Kirilovich, "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u46	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the case where we go between Scylla and Haribda. On the one hand, Scylla chats with us: enterprises reduce their income to gain or lose their status as small businesses. On the other hand, Haribda: enterprises are trying to become small businesses with high incomes or large volumes of gross income proposed in this bill. The reason is that there's a simplified tax system, there's tax benefits for small businesses. Therefore, some want to hold this status, although incomes are already increasing the criteria laid down in the law, others require the legislator to substantially increase the criteria, the volume of income to have high incomes and to be small businesses. What's the answer? We need a reckoning. Probably 500 000 euros -- gross revenue -- is too small, and that's what's causing this problem. On the other hand, perhaps five million — 10 times the amount offered by law — may be too large. I would say that maybe it's two million, maybe four times, maybe five times, but not ten. At least we have to do the math. And I also support a proposal that just sounded like the criteria should depend on what the enterprise is doing, whether it's manufacturing or mediating. These volumes should be different. Differentiation must be involved. So there's a problem with the criterion. And I think that in the process of preparing for the second reading or in the process of drafting the law for the first time again, if it's accepted, you have to do these calculations, and maybe then the question will be removed and we'll find, as it were, support in the session room. And in general, perhaps the solution to the problem is radically to remove any benefits in the end, and should be the only tax system. And in doing so, creating favorable conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear Alexander Vasilovich, the government absolutely supports the argument made by Yuri Ivanovich Yehanur, and we agree on the need to re-read the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u48	Let's go to the vote. I am voting on draft laws: amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the criteria for defining small enterprises. I would like to remind you that there is a brief discussion. Since there are different conclusions of the committee: regarding number 3489 - to be submitted for further processing and to be re-readed, on numbers 3684 and 4242 - to be accepted on the basis of the vote - I put the bill to the vote number 3489. Please vote. [[17:07:44]] For 111 I am voting on a bill on draft laws amending certain Ukrainian laws on the criteria for defining small enterprises under registration number 3684. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[17:08:20]] For 20 I am voting on draft laws amending certain Ukrainian laws on the criteria for the definition of small enterprises under registration number 4242. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[17:08:54]] For the We have a strange unity of view. So none of the bills got the right number of votes. Bills are being rejected. Rereading the first reading. Yuri Ivanovich, please make a proposal to the committee. Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurova, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the committee's decision was to send all three bills for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u50	Let us once again vote on the committee's proposal to re-read all three bills under numbers 3489, 3684, 4242. Please be supportive. [[17:10:01]] For 246 The bill was adopted in a re-first reading. The draft Law amending certain legislative acts on the organization of state registration in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine is being tabled under a reduced procedure. Narrator: Ukrainian National Deputy Polishchuk Kirilo Ananiyovich. Please. 5128, 5129, two regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Kirilo Polishchuk, faction of regions, Christian Democratic Party of Ukraine. The need for the adoption of this law is due to the need to reconcile the rules of the Master Code with those of the Civil Code of Ukraine, Ukraine’s special law on the state registration of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs, Ukraine’s other laws on subjects and subjects of state registration. The term of such registration, the reconciliation of the re-registration institutes and the replacement of the State registration certificate. In particular, the Master’s and Civil Codes of Ukraine, Ukraine’s special law on the state registration of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs, does not provide for the registration of separate departments of legal persons, branches, representations, and so forth. Then there is the need to clarify the provisions of section 2 of article 19 of the master code of Ukraine. There is a need for reconciliation and clarification of the institution of re-registration and replacement of the State registration certificate, including their reasons. Yes, the master code of Ukraine (article 58 of the Ukrainian Laws on Printed Information Tools, on Information Agencies, on Museums and Museums, on Library and so forth, as well as a number of other legislative acts, which provide for a change in the legislative regulation of individual organizational forms of ownership entities, and a fixed institution of state re-registration. At the same time, this institution is missing from the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Special Law of Ukraine on State Registration of Legal and Physical Persons. With the introduction, instead, of a government registration certificate. In addition, one of the reasons for the reregistering is the change in the organizational form of farming, which by nature is the transformation of a legal person as defined in the Code of Masters of Articles 56, 59, 104, 108, and the suspension of the activities of a legal person’s owner rather than his re-registration. The bill is designed to reconcile these institutions with each other, including with regard to the grounds for re-registration. This is purely technical law. There is also an offer. Article 42: "Property of the State Register" delete the words on the second reading of "other subjects". Accept and be excluded. Next. Act 5129. The adoption of this law is caused by the need to harmonize the rules of the Civil Code of Ukraine with those of the Special Law on State Registration. It's about the notion of "placement," which means finding the appropriate executive body, the person at a certain address. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u52	Are you done? I see you've had enough time even one. Correspondent Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u53	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Dear colleagues! Two Bills 5128, 5129 were considered by our committee. These are normal, useful, technical bills that allow us to bring our comprehensive legislation into line. There is an offer to accept it as a basis for the first reading. There's a little bit of a note from our Nuco-Expert Authority, and we're going to take these notes from our science-expert management, and we're going to take these notes into account when we prepare for our second reading. There is a suggestion to support the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u54	He's reading papers?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u55	Both.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u56	Do you understand the question? No, no, no. We didn't discuss it. There are speakers here. Yuri Ivanovich, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, prepare Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u57	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I've studied these two bills carefully, they've really been made to reconcile each other's positions due to the effectiveness of the Civil Code. And the Codex of Commerce. That's why they're going to be positive. I'd like our radios to understand what's proposed to reduce the duration of the state registration from 10 to 3 days. This is already a positive thing for people to set up to be reregistered when the appointment is changed, or where it is located. The authority of the local executive authorities is also expanding to provide services for the introduction of entries into the State Register for changes in the loads, for the drawdown of weights, and for the release of extracts from the State Register. And what's more, it's also suggested that the government also have a little bit of order to figure out how to do it in this direction. And I think that's the extension of the powers of the local authorities, it's just going to go back to what we've now adopted changes to the Constitution that can come into force since September 1st. That's what you've been calling us about all the time, heads of local authorities and deputies of local councils. So in fact, I think that the Polish MP did a useful job of meeting just like the local authorities. As far as I'm concerned. And this bill, 5128, I don't see any problem with accepting it in the first or second reading right now, I don't see it at all. I'd like the committee to think about it, and maybe they'll agree with that proposal if there's no comment to take right away in two readings. Because technical, somehow Yuri Ivanovich has a warning about two readings, he wants to make a correction. Well, then it's your right. But I don't see such warnings yet. And as far as Bill 5129 is concerned, it amends article 88 of the Civil Code, which requires that the statute of association not address, but the location of the legal person. We would like to harmonize the rules of the Civil Code with those of the Special Code on the State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons and of the Master Code on the notion of whereabouts, addresses, and what we asked about, remember when we adopted the Code of Master. And we asked these questions, and we saw them, and we talked inconsequentially, but we shouted, "Come on, come on, let's take it." Now we're wasting time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u58	My lady, get ready for Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u59	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will vote in favour of these bills. Let's look at them, at least two factors. Bill 5128 deals with the establishment of procedures and deadlines for the State registration of legal, natural and business persons. It is proposed to introduce a rule in the Economic Code that individual units of economic organizations are not subject to public registration. Second, reduce the period of State registration from 10 to 3 days. What can be opposed to these standards? We can only support it, and there are the same rules that need to be supported in the second law. But I would like to draw the attention of all the Ukrainian people's deputies, the Government of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine, who will be our President, to the fact that it is imperative to ensure the registration of entrepreneurs in the place of business, because very often there are non-fair entrepreneurs, often in general and abroad, I know that English has entrepreneurs or a firm that means English and many other so-called English, American and other business structures, are not registered in the place where this enterprise works. In particular, there is oil in the Lenin region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but there is gas, but does the region receive any of it to the appropriate extent? This is the first sad phenomenon that needs to be eliminated. Second, can payments be traced correctly? Of course, this registration is often done in such a way that it is not in the place of activity, in order to bribe a person who registers completely elsewhere, to withdraw from normal payments. These so-called entrepreneurs, and you could say thieves and criminals, but we're still not so strict about it, and that's what they're profiting from. An official who has taken bribes is profited, but the people and the economy are suffering. Therefore, please, I very much ask all the people's deputies here and the Government to ensure that such a rule is adopted. I was told that the Government of Ukraine was drafting a bill that envisaged the rule, so God forbid that the bill should be the norm. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u60	Solomonine, prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u61	Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Almost everything is said for the bill to be passed. I would like to make a brief reply in this regard. They are directed primarily to the support of a small entrepreneur because they are in line with the criteria that we discussed today or some other. And I would like to draw our attention to the fact that according to the State Tax Administration report, the number of taxpayers with annual total income of between five and 50,000. The bracelet, up to 50 grand. In 2003, the majority compared to the previous year almost a dozen times. That's a jump. So really, whether we want it or not, this class -- small entrepreneurs -- the future state of the mid-class backbone, it's already there, it claims itself and it's there, if we can't afford it, we need to create conditions so that it can function normally in the conditions of farming that have arisen today. So of course and clearly, in three days, he could register himself normally, but I agree with what my colleague was talking about. Now they're registering and showing any address, even at Banks Six, eight, maybe tens of two or three enterprises are registered. And if, when it is necessary or any interested person in joint management or court executioner, we need to find exactly the kind of small businesses we are creating today at the addresses they provide, of course, we will never find them. As a matter of fact. The laws must be passed, but these are the laws they create only, we will speak, a formal canvas for successful activity. And if a nation or a big business were to lend interestless loans to such small businesses, then they would really thank us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u62	The storm. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u63	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Since the Civil Code of Ukraine is a fundamental normative instrument in this field of legislation. Therefore, with the adoption of the Civil Code, appropriate amendments to the above - mentioned legislative acts should be made. The changes should be entirely justified in both legal and economic terms. In particular, we consider the introduction of the law on State registration of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs to be in line with the Civil Code, namely, the bill proposed to amend the term of state registration of economic operators from 10 to 3 days, unless another term is established by law for individual organizational forms of economic operators. By supporting the appropriateness of the proposed changes to legislative acts, we note that the regulation of national registration rules for holders of the issue of mutual harmonization of other rules of the Civil and Economic Codes and other legal acts of Ukraine does not exhaust. Therefore, in agreement with the drafter of the bill, we stress the need for the adoption of the amendments mentioned above, that work on the harmonization of codes and individual laws needs to be continued. The faction recommends that the proposed bill be adopted in the first reading. With regard to Bill 5129, the draft proposes to amend articles 88 and 93 of the Ukrainian Civil Code to clarify the rules governing the whereabouts of a legal person. The drafter of the bill is motivated by the need to amend the Civil Code by the use of the concept of "the whereabouts of a legal person" and "the address of a legal person" both in addition and separately. At the same time, according to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal and Physical Entrepreneurs, the location and address of a legal person are united in the same concept of "locality". It is also important that the very concept of "placement" in relation to legal persons is also used in the Code of Lords. We consider the proposal of the author of the bill to amend the Civil Code to be quite appropriate, namely, in article 88, part 1, of the Civil Code, to delete the word “address”. With regard to the changes to the 93rd article, the wording proposed by the author is "the location of a legal person", namely: the location of a permanent executive body, a legal entity, is not considered to be very successful. Therefore, we suggest leaving a valid norm, namely, that the location of the legal person is determined by the location of his or her national registration. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is proposing a draft law on the whereabouts of a legal person can be taken as a basis for article 88, and the proposed amendments to article 93 are recommended to be rejected. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u64	Nigger. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u65	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, one of the functions of Parliament is to harmonize the laws passed earlier with the laws that have just been passed, especially with the codes adopted. Well, obviously, first of all, with the Civil Code, which is the civil constitution of the country. In particular, Napoleon was more proud of the adoption of the Civil Code than of the forty winning battles. We adopted the Civil Code, we approved it. There was a need to bring our earlier laws on matters governed by the Civil Code into line with the Civil Code. So this is the exact right direction for our activity to be maintained. Basically. Law 5128 proposes to reduce the period of government registration from 10 to three days, facilitates the re-registration of legal persons, and ensures the role of local authorities in regulating entrepreneurial activities. Again, it is absolutely right and it deserves support. As far as Law 5129 is concerned, it is strictly technical. I think it's our fault that we didn't agree on the dates from the beginning, the question of the whereabouts of the legal person. And now we're correcting this mistake. At the same time, with the opportunity, I would like to point out that, to some extent, this indicates that there is a lack of legislative activity. We should pay attention to that. Sometimes we act in haste, we don't collide with each other, and that's why we come up. There is a need to correct our own mistakes in time, but it is also good that we do. It would be better to avoid making mistakes, and if we allowed them, we need to correct them. And we're doing it now. Actually, I think we should want to get rid of the legislative summary of our activities. I'm in favour of supporting both bills in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u66	Thank you. The draft Law amending certain legislative acts on the organization of state registration in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine is put to the vote. Registration number 5128. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[17:30:43]] For 314 Copy that. And they're voting on the bill. draft Act amending certain legislation on the organization of state registration in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine. Registration number 5129. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[17:31:20]] For 278 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on responsibility for undermining the reputation of a national actor]] Project registration number 4267, 5173. As reported by Anishtuk Vladimir Vasilovich. Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u67	Dear Alexander Alexievich! Dear colleagues! To draft a bill amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning the introduction of a new article on responsibility for undermining the reputation of a public official, I was forced to live, to practice my activities as a national deputy of Ukraine for two conventions and the First Secretary of the Odessa Communiqué of the Company. Over the past years, in response to my active participation in the protests of all events, clothing events on some Internet sites such as Our Odessa, which are the rubble of the Odessa city authority, slanderous material has been published almost weekly, insulting and degrading to the honour and dignity of myself, members of my family. As a matter of fact, it was the people's deputies of Ukraine from Karmazin, Kozachenka, Tsushka and a number of others. At my parliamentary request to the District Prosecutor's Office, the BSS Office requested the authors of these slanderous materials and brought to justice the receipts, the boards, they did not see this violation of the legislation, where I was watered, insulted every week, and that it did not fall within their jurisdiction. Therefore, I propose a new article on responsibility for undermining the reputation of a public official and determining the penalty for slanderers: correctional work from six months to two years or imprisonment for one year. Please pass the law on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u68	Thank you. Have a seat. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. According to the following law, 5173 National Deputy of Ukraine, Czernovetský Leonid Mihajlovich, is invited to attend. And we're going to go over two bills right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u69	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies, Radio Listeners, Chernovetsk, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, “Our Ukraine” faction. I want to tell you a lot of interesting stories that have come down on my head for two years in opposition and before, because in principle, for any statement I make as a politician, I have been resisted by the President's administration and even without opposition. One of the heads of the BSS has announced me, for example, at Interpol, I'm dealing drugs, prostitutes and all sorts of shit. But you can imagine it's a horror, no one has ever been, then the Attorney General was a respected man, Mr. Potemekko, then he gave me a paper that, thank God, prostitutes don't trade, well, and I legalized it in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the result would be a full funeral of my jobs -- 1,000 jobs that I'm very proud of. Another called me a state criminal, and I was on my way from the heads of the BSS. The current chief has assigned the Customs, for example, not to miss any details from the factory, thank God, I'm getting rid of it gradually, but in principle, yes, a hundred criminal cases have been initiated. I received another letter today from the Deputy Attorney-General, by the way, a decent man, Sergey Markianović Vinokurov, yes. An investigation was initiated against an investigator who spent a year dragging my family, calling and searching various businesses. I demand that the opposition be protected from any authority. Any power is a problem because the leaching of the authorities begins, the villains begin in different management structures and the persecution of those who express a different view. This is a problem, and as a result, jobs are closed and millions of other problems are created. We can start a new life with this law, it's pure as a child's tears. Because from this point on, from 10 to 15 years of age, every poor person and poor uncle who will be allowed to speak against a national MP to whom God has given the right to speak here in parliament and to tell the truth to the people will be held accountable for between 10 and 15 years. Please support my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u70	Correspondent: Head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, School Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u71	Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council, School Andrew. I would like to point out right away that the committee is proposing that the 4267 bill be rejected. I'll explain why it's clear and clear because it's inappropriate to review criminal and administrative code. I believe that, and I feel that along with me, the Supreme Council committee should strengthen the administration of responsibility rather than translate it from one article to another. It's a committee decision, and I have to report it. The same is true of the decision of the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And with regard to Bill 5173. There's a bill. criminal responsibility for violating the political independence of Ukraine's national deputy or political party leader by officials of the operational-search departments of the State executive bodies by means of threats, blackmails, slanders, defamation and illegal actions. Businesses or organizations based on the participation of a State or a public official are carried out and so forth by text. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that a draft draft be submitted for re-reading. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also supports the opinion of the committee, the legislative initiative because. In principle, good intentions, they should just be better taught and in this situation should not be rushed. Because it's serious enough, decisive very often, bills and there can't be as hasty as the Civil Code, you remember when a rule was laid down in the CDC that any negative opinion expressed about a statesman could be a punishment. Let's say there's no problem in the future, it's worth re-writing to the drafters, and I think it's the committee that I have the honour to go to that will process and allow the Supreme Council to present a perfect and full bill. I'll point out, but do you believe that administrative responsibility is too small? What it is when the administrative pull is going to be made up of 100,000 bracelets there is going to be one, and when the admin is now 17 bracelets, of course it's not enough, but it's not a reason to translate administrative responsibility into criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u72	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski, to prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u73	Vladimir Yavorowski Rava Ruska It's gum. Dubljani, Kulików, Novoyavorysk, Yavorov, Ivano-Frankov. Dear colleagues! I want us to think for a moment, people listen to us, people listen, imagine what they think of us at this moment. Don't be offended, I'll say that, as I took it completely without deceiving it, they insulted the MP about it, something they said was wrong. He, as a person with a legislative initiative, sits down, squanders the law, so that no one else can be vilified against a deputy, to say something. The Honorable Chernewsky was also insulted by someone there, or his wife at once, what people today think of our constituents, who were so insulted, that the nation was cast down, literally to the very bottom of both the 20th century and to the 20th century. So, what do they think of us, the nationalists? Come on, people are good! For that there is, understand, there is legislation. If my honor and dignity were humiliated, a Levite newspaper during this campaign against the National Writer Association, which belongs to a famous party with a small zero, published that I am the killer as the head of the Writer Association. The killer died because the editor-in-chief of the newspaper "Letterature Ukraine" Vasil Plusht. I passed on, I have a human constitutional right, I passed on this paper to the court. It was true that Medvedchuk did not allow them to make a decision. But now this totalitarian fist has been dispersed, the court has accepted approval, so there, and so on. What is the purpose of adopting laws? Look who's hiding here. I call you the National Deputy, Prime Minister, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, authorized by the Supreme Council of Human Rights, head or member of the Court of Auditors, head of the High Council of Justice, head or members of the Central Electoral Commission, head of the National Bank, head of the Antimonopoly. What about the President's wife? So put your wife, your grandchildren, your grandkids in here. Well, people are good, they're not funny, they're God, they're all that can't be offended. A normal politician, a normal president, no one can be offended. Period. I just can't vote for this bill, my conscience won't allow it in front of people. How am I supposed to look them in the eye? That I'm protecting my skin and skin, that means high-ranking officials. You can't just do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u74	Slippery. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u75	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The draft law criminalizes the composition of a crime by undermining the reputation of a public official will provide additional guarantees for the officials of Ukraine to exercise their constitutional powers and to enforce their legitimate rights in connection with unlawful conduct against them. The humiliation of the honor and dignity of a public official undermines the authority of the authorities, although it is no matter to the Ukrainian authorities, everything has already been destroyed and lost. This phenomenon was demonstrated by the events of the "morning tour" when no MPs, ministers, or other Cabinet officials were allowed to go to work. It's just terror, that's what we're gonna say, that's what we're gonna do. Who and to whom was given such a right to beat the drums in empty barrels under the cabinet of ministers 24 hours a day, for there were other people working there besides the unfavorable Prime Minister? On the orange side, it was nothing more than a crime, a violation of human constitutional rights. And the media were so happy to broadcast through all the channels that they were unable to appear in their cabinets. Where, then, was this law? He should have stood up for honor and dignity, not as a minister, but as a man. This once again proves that the laws in our country do not work. And how many times do the pages of "The Village News" degrade the honour and dignity of the Communists? It's written by people who have not two, not three decades of life behind their shoulders, and that's what they think under the law. So I remind the editors and colleges of the famous saying, "Smart bird regrets feathers and wise man regrets words." So the laws we adopt should be the same for everyone. I hope that the adoption of this law will have a positive impact on the proper performance by Ukraine's senior officials of its functions, create regulatory and legal guarantees to respect their honour and dignity in relation to their state activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u76	Carmazine, get ready for Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u77	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I understand Anishuk Vladimir Vasilovich's argument, and I respect him very much. But you are aware, Vladimir Vasilovich, that you, as well as I, are being fought by criminal authorities in Odessa. And you know she's usurped. And I didn't see you get TV like I did. All the time at the same door. But if we're going to react like, let's say, today, the threat that happened to me on the Internet again, so that I don't pretend to be in a new government or in a prosecutor's office -- someone thinks so -- they won't wait, I'll be in Parliament defending interests here. So I'm not afraid of anyone, but what am I supposed to do, ask questions on every fact and file a criminal case? I think so. I don't think we should do that. Not everyone is intimidated or shot in the city of Odessa. But what Odessa's living prosecutor is now assigned to do the job, because people are sent to do it in other areas, they're bad symptoms, they're terrible symptoms, they're symptoms that some of the currents already want to redirect to the other side. And we know about it, and we see it, and we'll expose it. In fact, Bill 4267 proposes that the two old articles in the 1960 Criminal Code be returned. It's slander, responsibility for slander and responsibility for insult, which is what the 125th, 126th, old Criminal Code was. We rejected it, we rejected it because the common practice of the world co-author is to solve the conflicts that have arisen as a result of the spread of unreliable information about a person in civil law. You know, even what they do: a newspaper supported by Ruslan Bodelan wrote the Pasquil on Victor Yushchenk and signed the Jury Karamazin. It's for that. There is no such person, just no physical person. But that's to keep me from being court-martialed. Of course, they do. Well, that's a question. Life will put everything in its place. I'm not going to support this bill and I'm not going to support another bill that was introduced by a member of my faction, Leonid Chernowitz, because there is already a responsibility for the demand, 189th, 206th -- against legitimate economic activity. 344 Intrudership of the State Actor. 346 Threats or violence against a public or public official." 351 "Disruption of the activities of the Ukrainian People's Deputy and the Deputy of the Local Council" we protected. [[Even]] Therefore, there is no need to reestablish these legal relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u78	Mironenko. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u79	5 constituency, Mironenko, Crimea, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The faction of the Compartium of Ukraine is that both bills need to be submitted for finalization and, firstly, because there is indeed much to be done there and a great deal of the comments of the Scientific and Expert Office on at least the first bill on this point. This is also evident in the contents of the bill itself. Let's take a look at Mr. Chernewsky's bill, which is written here. "Attempting the political independence of a state or public official, attacking an official of a public executive authority to whom. "there and there, and so on. Thus, it is a matter of slander, discrimination, unlawful, opposition to legitimate economic activity, organizations based on State or public diocese, in connection with their public or public activity. They are punished with deprivation of liberty for a period of 10 to 15 years. And we'll ask ourselves how hard we are when we're insulted. And how is it that ordinary citizens, who are constantly being humiliated, insulted, pursued policies that are really anti-national about capitalism, robbed all the time, were insolvent and could not do anything? What are we talking about? I am grateful to those speakers who have just spoken and thank them for their human position, the right position, in my view, even though they are members of a single faction, but have taken a human position, the right position. But I'm paying attention to something else. If Mr. Chernovetski is in business, God save him, don't touch him in any way, or you'll be between 10 and 15 years old. The prosecutor's office, the banker of Chernevski, cannot be prosecuted because he sees a kid. But you should probably think you don't have to go to the deputies. That's the first one. Second. That's how often this gentleman insults, humiliates the Company, lies, literally, Mr. Chernovecki. Then we'll take him to court, give him 15 years. But he's lying about many bills, especially that we're voting wrong, he's saying otherwise. And you can't punish him now, and then, because if he's a child, he's a Ukrainian national deputy. I'm asking you, a respected, so-called Christian, please don't humiliate Christianity, don't say that you're a Christian when you're proposing a weapons bill, about killing with help.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u80	Solomonine. Get ready, Nigger, please. Then, later, please. Solomonine. Then it's Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u81	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We have two bills with you that are polar in nature. On the one hand, our colleague Anishtuk proposes that a corresponding article be introduced into the Criminal Code on undermining the reputation of a statesman. And he outlined it in a way and in connection with what he was proposing. But I want to point out. We're going to Europe, we're going to a so-called free society, and in this free society, according to the European Court of Human Rights ruling of July 8, 1986 in the case of Lingins, the limit for allowable criticism of a public official is much wider than that of an average person. It's a matter of business. v. the United Kingdom, the Court noted that freedom of expression not only refers to information or ideas that have been properly received or considered as insidious or insignificant, but to those that provoke resentment, resentment, and so on. Similarly, many such cases that have been brought before the European Court of Human Rights can be listed, so in this case a European Court of Human Rights ruling is no simple report, and in view of the fact that we have declared European legislation higher than our national court, they are mandatory for the execution of all the national authorities of Ukraine, including our national deputies. So, unfortunately, from my point of view, we're going to put up with it. That we are suffering today and with regard to the second bill of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, our colleague of Chernevski, he is aimed at protecting his business indirectly, if a national deputy went to the Upper, some businessman went to the Supreme Council, and his business business was handed over to his grandson, son, mother-in-law, grandparents, so that no one could pressure anyone on this business. These are the efforts of the second bill. I'd like to say to my honorary colleague that I received a letter from the deputy of the Sazonov Rural Council, the disabled 2nd group of Salov Viktor Volodymirovich, in which he complains of you, your honourable colleagues, that you do not keep your promises, especially in the part that touched your promises during your candidacy for President of Ukraine. So I'm going to give you this letter, and I very much hope that you will fulfill all the promises you have made to our little Ukrainian and little one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u82	Nigger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u83	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear national deputies, the people are the only source of authority. And if the authority has escaped from this source, it will never return. This means protecting the people from power, not authority. The very term "representation of a statesman" does not depend on the image, not on slander, depending on the state's own actor. And no one can undermine the reputation of a statesman like himself. No one can undermine the reputation of power as power itself. No one can undermine trust in authority as much as power itself. That's what they say about where the dog broke, not in insults, slanders. And there's no criteria for that at all. The undermining of the reputation of a statesman is a constant practice of political reality in democratic countries and is a constant concern of opposition. The opposition only thinks about how to undermine the public figure's reputation so that he doesn't win the election and win. So to ask the question like that, I don't think there's any point. De Gaulle, when he opened the newspaper in the morning and didn't see cartoons on himself, an offensive cartoon, he said, "My business is bad." And in general, anyone who dares or dares to go into public activity, in public politics, should be prepared for a constant image, it's normal, it's normal. By the way, in Japan, you know, there's an outcry on the way out of the big corporate leadership, where anyone who wants to beat it can even knock it off, and when stress builds up, they need to take it down, take it down because of criticism, because of controversy, and a statesman shouldn't be offended if he's offended, he's not a statesman, and he's a petty politician. And I'm finishing, by the way, in Italy they say, if it rains, it's the government. The government is guilty of everything, I would add by itself, if there is no rain, then the government is to blame, and it needs to be prepared and not to seek protection, but to be struck by criticism, by offense and only stronger to get out of it and be a real statesman who cares for the state, not his reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u84	The replica. One minute, please, Deputy Chernewicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u85	I want to say that I feel the voice of a new power and I want to tell you that I don't like that voice. I wasn't talking about the pictures, Mr. Cherniak, and the others. You didn't even read the law or the speakers. What images you're talking about bringing criminal cases against people who are opposed to any decisions. It's a very different thing, an image -- it's when I say that the people on the left-hand side of my mind who survive are messing with me, that they're messing with me, that they're insulting me three times, and Mr. Zinchenko, he's not giving me a word so that I can answer them. This image is an image, it's a new face of power, it's sitting in front of you, and it's not giving me a word so that I can answer the people who insulted me four times. I'm talking about political persecution, criminal responsibility. You don't understand what you're doing! It's not my fault you didn't read the Law. Vote! This is the Law which protects the people's electorate and gives him the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m1.u86	Thank you. We're risking it. I first point out that among the documents are the 4267 Supreme Council Ordinance on Unacceptability of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[There's no Deputy Tomenka in the room, but we have to look first.]] I mean, I'm the first to vote on the Inadmissibility Order. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[18:01:38]] For-41 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, registration number 4267 of Deputy Anishuk. [[on responsibility for undermining the reputation of a national actor]] Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[6:02:17]] For-16 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a draft law amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on responsibility for undermining the reputation of a public official as an editor. 5173 Czernovsky Leonid Mikhailovich. Based on the offer. Please vote. [[18:02:58]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that with regard to the bill amending the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act 4174, there is a letter from the committee requesting a 20th hearing. That's why we don't look at it. We've considered the entire agenda with you. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we continue our work at 10 a.m.
