ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the system, turn on the tip system. [[10:02:19]] There were negative 412 national MPs registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, allow me to welcome you with a great holiday today, to wish you strength as water and success in our work together. Dear colleagues! Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on January 18th: 17 issues of the agenda were discussed, 2 laws were passed, 3 bills were passed on the basis, 10 bills were rejected, 3 bills were submitted for further work, 1 draft decree was submitted for further work, and one issue was postponed. As a result of a review of the proposal by the President of Ukraine, the veto of the President of Ukraine has been overturned by one law and 1 law has been passed in a new edition. According to Rule 252 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I would like representatives of MPs and factions to apply for the speech, while I will announce the parliamentary requests that have come. People's MPs have been asked, people's MPs have been asked. KYORIAN to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for violating the right of a national MP to respond to a request at the right time. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA's executive duty as Prime Minister to pay compensation to agricultural enterprises in the Poltava region for crops of bright crops. Victor DIVORCE under the prime minister’s responsibility to allocate funds for the gasification of the Velikoline Rural Medical Clinic in the province of Žitomir. Vassil NADRAGI to the acting prime minister’s duties regarding the inclusion of the Luhansk Pipeworks in the list of companies that may be issued export licences for the supply of black metal pipes to the Russian Federation. Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Acting Prime Minister for the award of a subsidy for the completion of the construction of the Lyubomla Central District Hospital in Volin County. Jury KARMAZIN to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence for the illegal change of the boundaries of the general sociological order of the state importance of Veliko Dobrinsky, the abolition of the status of the natural-command fund of part of his territory, and its subsequent transfer to a commercial society with limited responsibility of the “Thought Club “Cremenka”. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA and Viktor TURMANOVA to the executive responsibility of Prime Minister, Minister of Fuel and Energy, Attorney-General for the inclusion of the State Enterprise “Rwenkinantracite” in the Public Enterprise “Lugansk Coal Company”. John YVANCHO to the acting Prime Minister for the activities of the State Enterprise “National Pharmaceutical Center” of the Ministry of Health. Vladimir ÍŠENKA, acting as Prime Minister, Minister of Defence for the Conservation of the Cherka Police House as a hub for the spiritual and cultural development of military personnel, the patriotic upbringing of young people, the veteran movement of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Gennady RUDENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers for the introduction of quotas for the import of maculatures for 2005. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMPLAV TO THE OFFICE OF THE MINISTRY, THE MINISTRY OF ECONOMICS AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL QUESTIONS OF THE NEED FOR A RELIEF OF THE TENDOR ON THE BUYING OF WORK AND SERVICES FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MONSIEUR'S ACCOUNT, Eugen HYRNIKA to Deputy Prime Minister John Kirilenko on the liquidation of the debt payable for the sale of a young man of elevated weight categories of cattle by the producers of the Bogočany district of Ivano-Frankiv region. Vladimir ĆENKA to Deputy Prime Minister John Kirilenko for the restoration of the operation of the open stock company “Vilshan Sugar Plant” in the township and the sugar plant in the village of Kolodyste in the region of Cherkas region. Anatoly of DOMANS to the Attorney General on the legality of the sale of the Sanatorium “Sacrifice”. Lilia GREGOROVIĆ to the Attorney General on the violation of the criminal case against the “Inter” channel for inflaming religious hostility and providing false information. Stepan HMARA and Andrija ŠKILA to the Attorney General for exceeding the official powers of the Senior Prosecutors of the Pechersky district of Kyiv Zbaranski and for the inaction of the prosecutor of the district of Vasilevsk. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Attorney General for the improper performance of the Ministry’s internal affairs officers, which leads to misinformation of the Supreme Council’s leadership and the discreditation of the Ukrainian national deputy. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General on the abuse of the office of the head of the collective agricultural society “The Covenant” of the village of Ternivka Novoarchangeli district of Kirovograd. JANUARY to the Attorney General for a misjudgment of the Judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev. Jurya ARTEMENKA to the Attorney-General for illegal actions by the management of the State Shareholder Company “Ukrvodavpoligraphy” on privatization of publications, polygraph enterprises and distribution books. John STANDING to the Attorney General for the death of an assistant consultant to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alevtina Malitsky. MICHELLA RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service, to check the use of funds during the renovation of the Chernobyl Children’s Hospital. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Ministry of Internal Affairs, regarding the formal conduct of criminal cases by the officers of the Pechre Regional Investigation Department of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev. [[POWDER, KATESHEVA, PUSAKOV]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the abuse of office by officials of the State Committee from the State Material Reserve and the loss to the State of over 40 million dollars. [[BARTKIEV, KING, STRETOVIC, JOHNOV]] Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the formal review of parliamentary requests for pressure on law enforcement authorities by corrupt groups of citizens and officials, and on the abuse of the official position of certain officials of the Attorney-General's Office and the Prosecutor's Office of the city of Kiev. Andrija DERKAČA to the Attorney-General on the inaction of the Attorney-General's Office on the unlawful actions of the Security Service employees to prevent the activities of journalists and officials of the closed shareholders association “Telegraph Information and Publishing Group”, the use of investigators and operational units of the Security Service for the purpose of violating the authority of the national MP. Anatholia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General, the prosecutor of Kiev, for the formal examination of parliamentary requests, and for the abuse of the office of some prosecutors. MIKOLI POLICHUCA AND JOHN YVANCHO to the Attorney General for Human Rights Violations by the Rector of the Uzhgorod State University after evicting university coworkers from the dormitory during the winter. Mr Vladimir MASTRISHIN to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the biased investigation of criminal cases by prosecutors and the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Montenegrin region. JOURIA SIRKA and SERGEY ALEXIUKA to the Attorney General on the criminalization of the head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Mikolai district of Paul Güzola for illegal activity during the electoral process. MICILI RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General for investigating the inaction of the Prosecutor’s Office in the area of violations of legislation and the establishment of an investigation team of the Attorney General’s Office. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Abuse of Officials and the Association of Certain Workers of the Pecher District of Kiev and the Prosecutor’s Office of Kiev, with corrupt groups of citizens and employees of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev on family and other grounds. Vladimir MASTRISHIN to the Attorney General on the inactivity of the Antimonopoly Committee on Unwarranted and Unwarranted Systemic Increases in Tariffs by the Ministry of Transport and Connection in the Rail Transport Market. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General concerning the discovery of a criminal case against the perpetrators of an act of vandalism against a monument to the liberation soldiers of the city of Tsurupinsk Herson. Bogdan KOSTINJUK to the Attorney General for the illegal alienation of state property, a monument to architecture, and the historic premises of the former Potocsky Palace in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General on possible abuse of tenders by the Ministry of Health. [[OXYCA, CARMAZIN, YUGNOVSKI]] Mr Tomenka to the Attorney General on the use of prosecutorial response measures in connection with violations of national television channels in Ukraine of the laws “On Elections of the President of Ukraine” and “On Advertising”. VYACHESLALA KYRILENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Head of the Pension Fund, on the illegal reduction of pensions for the resident of Herson Abramenko. Mikhail POLANČIĆA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Covering of Direct Fraud by Formal Leaves to Deputies on the Signs of the Criminality of the Private Enterprise Mercury-Invest in Accounting for Non-Procurement of Mineral Goods to the private agricultural enterprise “Fortun” of the Curtkov region of Ternopil. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the award of a bus to the Motovilian School of Public Education in the province of Lubar. Valentina Semenyuk and Joseph WINSKY to the Minister of Defence for the Inventory of Military Hunters and Fishermen of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. John SCHEDULE to the Minister of Agrarian Politics, Minister of Environmental Protection, on the increase in harmful deforestation in the territory of the district of Suma. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Ministry of Health regarding the failure to take action to overcome Botkin’s disease, which has been taking place systematically in the village of Old Commissioners of the Orutsky district of the Botkin region for the past three years. Petra SIMONENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the use of measures to halt the hooliganic actions regarding the systematic damage to the property of the Montenegrin District and City Committees of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Jury CARMAZINA to the Minister of Justice, Attorney General, on the use of measures for unprecedented violations of the law and gravity during the forced enforcement of the Department of State Executive Services of Dergachev District Administration of Justice of the Kharkiv area of the court decision to collect debts from the closed “Enisei” company in favour of the farm farm “Tavrija”. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Defence Minister for the Inventory of Military Hunters and Fishermen of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. LUKYANENKA’S left to the Defence Minister for information on Ukraine’s consent to Russia’s participation in planning and conducting multinational military training in its territory. ALLY ALEXANDROVSKI to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the purpose of ensuring the implementation of part 4 of article 57 of the Education Act. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the first deputy minister of transport and to link with the wrong conduct of the Odessa Railways in connection with the closure of the railroad club in the city of Heiworon. Vladislav ATROSHENKA to the Head of the Security Service for deliberate assault on the honour and dignity of the Ukrainian national deputy. Victor ZAIČKA to the Head of the Supreme Economic Court on speeding up the settlement of the debt issue between Zaporezka AES and Sevastopol’s construction plant “Parus”. GEORGIA PONOMARENKA to the Head of the Security Service for the adoption of measures to halt the hooliganic actions regarding the systematic damage to property of the Montenegrin District and City Committees of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Igor JEREMEEVA to the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General, the Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges on the violation of the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code by judges of the Zampostian District Court of Winnice in the case of the Open Shareholder Association “Vinnicamysso”. Anatolya KUKOBI to the first deputy head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting for the removal of the district state television company “Ltava” right to speak on the 21st television channel. Vladimir YAVORIYVYSK to the prime minister’s executive responsibility for the threat of an accident at the Chernobyl AES in connection with the fact that nuclear fuel was not recovered from 1, 2 and 3 of the power grids at the power plant shut down in 2000. Prolonging the development of projects for the construction of nuclear waste and radioactive waste management. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Attorney General, the DPA heads of a large group of companies in the Lviv region in 2002-2004, who, at billions of financial levels, did not pay taxes at all, or paid symbolic amounts, to the heads of the DPA for the activities of a large group of companies in the Lviv region in 2002-2004; GREGORY MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine a repeat parliamentary request regarding the gross violation of the current legislation by the Head of the Kyiv District Public Administration; Victor BOYK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to protect the property rights of the State in the process of restructuring the scientific research institute of meat and milk industry; Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal acts and civil rights violations of Labazov by law enforcement officials in the city of Priluka and Chernigiv region. Thus, honourable national deputies, 59 questions have been made. In factions: "Our Ukraine" - 18, "Communist faction - 17, "Ukraine" -2, "Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party - 2, "The One Ukraine" - 4, "Trudova Ukraine" - 1, "The People's Agrarian - 3, "The Socialist Party - 2, "Timoshenko - 3, "The Union - 2, "The NDP of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs" - 1, "Centre - 3, "The Non-Faction - 1. [[united]] Now, let's move on to the statements made by the representatives of the MPs and the factions with queries, statements of reports. Alexander Masenko, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to prepare for the performance, Michael Schershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u2	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, but I am a member of the Communist Party of Ukraine and I consider this a great honor, or you have offended me very much. Dear voters, distinguished national MPs, we have already become a disgraceful tradition when the words of high officials, politicians in our country differ in specific matters. So we know that both the former President and the Prime Minister and all candidates for the presidency promised that in 2005 there would be an elimination of the imbalance in the pension provision of military personnel, but we see that the issue has not been resolved until now. There's a lot of phone calls coming in. And last night, in Poltava, there was a protest against nearly 5,000 people. And I was asked to read out a resolution, that is, a call by members of the military pension protest to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We, members of the protest against unlawful actions by the authorities in relation to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the internal affairs bodies, the BSS, who retired in various years, have taken up today in Poltava to express a strong protest against all branches of government for failing to implement the Ukrainian Civil Service Act on Social Protection with changes adopted by the Supreme Council and signed by the President in 2004. The repeated assurances of the first leaders of the state, as well as the presidential candidates, about the elimination of the imbalance in pension insurance, have placed in our hearts the hope of a triumph of justice. However, the first payment of pensionable paws in January 2005 questioned the honour and order of the authorities, since the sums counted do not correspond to the law, are not logical and verifiable. In defending our constitutional rights, we are strongly protesting the continuation of discrimination against pensioners, members of the military and requesting the Cabinet of Ministers to take all appropriate measures to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Service Protection Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine to establish the causes of violations of current legislation, to direct the joint efforts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to find reserves and to repeal article 39 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005. We call on the pensioners of the military, the pensioners of internal affairs, the BSS, the whole of Ukraine to support our demands and together to reach a celebration of justice. By the way, the Communist faction has introduced a bill to make changes to the budget. And I'd like to ask the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u3	Thank you. I apologize to Alexander Masenka, I made a mistake, he's a representative of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Mikola Haritonovich Shershun has the right to perform, to prepare for Belarus, Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u4	Mikola Shershun, Ravenshina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine On September 22, 2004, the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine alarmed by publishing a statement about self - capture and land ownership in the most attractive part of the mountain Crimea, the Yaltin Mountains ’ natural reserve. For over a year there has been a struggle to stop the illegal construction of the road and the rest base in 13 blocks of Alubkin’s forestry. This first, unprecedented step, led to the destruction of 13 acres [13 ha] of the unique rural vegetation, which is estimated at 700,000 dollars. All appeals made by the Crimea environmental protection organizations for the protection of the Yaltin Reserve, as well as the appeal of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, remained unresponsive. The truth is that the damage to the natural-indictment fund by Yalta City’s attorney in the fall of 2003 was a criminal case. To this day, however, we do not know that even those who have committed wrongdoing have been established and that the wrongs have not been stopped. Obedience to lawlessness is known to give birth to new ones. On October 18, 2004, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on the approval of the limits of the Yaltin Mountains natural reserve, which in fact, in the form of a so-called inventory, removes 347 hectares of protected land from this natural-preservation facility, the market value of which is already a billion dollars. So while the caravan's going, the quick ones in the hands of the plots have been able to triangulate and legally secure removals from the natural reserve, and in fact, the intact fund is this sort of foresty piece of the Black Sea coast in the area of Foros, where there's already been a full-scale construction. Clearly, the organizers of these disadvantages are not interested in wasting volumes that cannot be determined at all. It is about the health of the inhabitants there, since the construction is taking place in the area of the water source of Hostabas, the site of the water grabbing of two villages and the city of Alubka. The question is: How long do we have to survive environmental disasters to achieve a state of wisdom and respect for an environment that is simply doomed to extinction without normal development? Members of the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine insist on the immediate restoration of the legality of self-absorbed land and the cessation of manipulation with domestic environmental legislation. Please consider our application to be a parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u5	Yes, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, from the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u6	Oleg Belarus, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable citizens! Our faction. Blocks and parties have made a significant contribution to the victory of the democratic revolution. We are also willing to stand up for the gains of national victory against all attempts and threats to undermine it by the bankrupt antinational regime. The agony of the old government regime is becoming a gangrene of power in Ukraine. This is a deadly threat to Ukraine, because today the new national authorities want to infiltrate the black wolves of the old authorities, who dress and dress themselves in orange, turned over their coats and depict painted forests, liberals, and Democrats. Invisibly, a new "azair" is being acquired as a means of quietly capturing and usurping the people's power by the clans. We stand up for the revolution and call on all the healthy political forces to unite in this fight. The silent counter-revolution will not pass! People’s authority should become new in both people and in action, beginning with the heads of villages to the head of the Ukrainian government. Any delay and delay in forming a government is fatal for Ukraine’s future. Today, all experts and not experts see a new threat to Ukraine’s economic crisis. Industrial development, agriculture, is declining from 12 percent to 1 percent in December. An emergency anti-crisis government management program is needed to create a special commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the abuse of old power, especially in the last two years. The theft of the good of the people is taking place at an accelerated rate of illegality. We urge the new President and the Supreme Council to proceed immediately to the formation of the Ukrainian government. To ensure constitutional acceptance of power, as is done in all democratic countries. Especially in the areas of finance, budget, spending of money, and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u7	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please prepare Basile immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u8	A statement by the faction of the Socialist Party. In recent months, the government’s policy of Yanukovic, which aims to quickly adopt the most profitable energy objects, has been culminated after financialists of the candidate’s power have come to realize that he has no chance of winning the elections. So in fact, over the last three months, Pavlogradwogil, Donbasu Komsomolec Mine, Krasnodonwogil at prices ten times lower than their real value. For example, the Krasnoarmeian West No. 1 mine is sold at a price of slightly more than a hundred million dollars, while the mine extracts more than six million tons of coal per year at a total cost of more than one and a half billion dollars. We need to improve the mechanism of coal subsidies. Even though the government spends four billion dollars a year, the price of coal remains too high, reaching more than 500 dollars per tonne for the population. The Socialist faction calls on the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office to verify the legality of the privatization of the above-mentioned energy objects and believes that the new government of Ukraine should take urgent steps to return the coal compounds to the state-owned NAC Coal Company. From the easy hand of these sort of gobblers, we have a strange dependence today when the state budget cuts coal production on privatized mines, which are made artificially by its new owners. A conscious delay in producing a long - term energy strategy has led not only to billions of losses in the State budget but also to the loss of part of Ukraine’s economic sovereignty. What is worth building is the Odessa-Broda pipeline without transit coverage, the closure of the Chernobyl station without real financial guarantees for the transformation of the shelter facility in a safe long term, the transfer of NHRIs only to Russian companies, the export of nuclear warheads and the distribution of funds instead of a closed nuclear cycle, the absence of long-term contracts with Russia for transit and with Turkmenistan for gas supplies. Ukraine's socialist party insists on the urgent development and approval by the Government of Ukraine of a long-term energy development programme, with a main focus on developing its own raw materials base as a major energy security factor in Ukraine through the provision of annual government support to the coal sector of at least 5.5 billion dollars, the involvement of special companies for the active development of the Black Sea shelf, the creation of new oil and gas transit capacities, the creation of a closed nuclear cycle, the achievement of political arrangements for the participation of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u9	Yes, Basil Nadrag, the Alliance's MP group is invited to speak. Prepare Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I would like to highlight in my statement one problem: the problem of external economic activities and those, unfortunately, of the problems that exist today, and more rightly, of misunderstandings, if not worse. Thus, according to the treaty, the regulation of the supply of black metal pipes, signed in April 2001 between the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of the Russian Federation, the Lugansk Pipe Plant, which is one of Lugansk's educational enterprises, is not included in the list of producer enterprises that have the right to export steel pipe to the Russian Federation. Accordingly, this does not take into account the commercial and economic interests of the enterprise, resulting in the loss of 45 per cent of the traditional market of the plant. Whether it is diplomatic or not, the current situation cannot satisfy the plant and the city of Luhansk in any way. I'll explain why. Because the existing list of enterprises that are entitled to import cannot even cover the quotas they have received. For example, in 2002-2003, through unused quotas for other Russian pipeline enterprises, which agreed, I stress, to voluntarily transfer their share to the Luhansk Pipe Plant, the latter had the opportunity to export 12.7 thousand tons of steel pipe to the Russian Federation. That is, the factory actually brought its pipe into the Russian Federation, but it had to deal with those enterprises that had a quota, they had to prove in the Ministry, and so today when we talk about whether we should do it or not, we are resisting a situation of one order -- we need to go 10 rounds to achieve our own. The Lugansk Pipe Plant has requested that it be included in the list of companies of Ukrainian black metal pipe manufacturers who carry out export operations to the Russian Federation. However, the new draft treaty, which should be signed between Russia and Ukraine, was not, unfortunately, once again the undertaking had not fallen, but had been included in the 2001 list. Again, the question arises, "How fair and must this be?" What's more, our Lugano pipeline plant was focused on Russian markets. I don't want to talk about its significance in the budget of the city of Luhansk anymore, I don't want to say that these are jobs and everything. I believe that unjustified discrimination in this case, as in any other case, is not possible if we are talking about normal external economic activity. So today, an appropriate parliamentary request was prepared, and it passed through the hall. And I hope that the Cabinet of Ministers will put the matter in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u11	Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction, is invited to speak. Prepare Vladimir Demiokin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u12	Reverend Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! On 9 September last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved a decree on the 60th anniversary of the Yaltine Conference of Heads of State of the Anti-Hitler Coalition. The Supreme Council in this decree, stressing the public role of the Yaltine Conference in ending the collapse of Fascism of World War II, reaching an agreement on the creation of the UN, entrusted the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and, on individual issues, the authorities of Crimean Autonomy with the implementation of a series of measures on this occasion. For days it became known that, according to the initiative of individual governments of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the establishment of one of the bloodiest tyrants of the 20th century of Stalin was scheduled to take place at the Livadian Palace. According to a press report referring to the deputy head of the Council of Ministers of Autonomy, Kazarina, the author of this monument was a Russian sculptor of Ceretels, made in metal at one of the St. Petersburg factories, and financed by Russian entrepreneurs. The implementation of this disgusting idea right in the Crimea, from where Stalin and his Camary decided 60 years ago, had violently expelled the Crimean Tatar people on earth, who had been separated for 45 years from their natives because they had been forbidden to return, and the tens of thousands of Crimean Tatars who had tried to return to their homes had repeatedly been thrown out by force outside the peninsula, not only unacceptable, but nothing other than the cynical abuse of the memory of hundreds of thousands of people who had died in exile, was an image of tens of thousands who had survived and managed to return to their own land. Fans of the idea of establishing a tyrant’s monument suggest that Stalin was a historical figure. Based on such erroneous logic, anyone can be excused, almost Hitler. So I would like to tell this rostrum to such lovers of history as Mr. Kasarin and other Crimean officials: If you're not capable of doing good things that should eliminate the consequences of deportation. If you are unable to solve the many problems of tens of thousands of returnees who still live in settlements without water, without roads, without school, if your actions have caused the Crimean land to be scattered, scattered by hundreds of hectares between Moscow and Kiev oligarchs, and the local people do not find a few hundred to build their own dwellings, stop! Regrettably, do not try people whose wounds will remain open for a long time, since you do not have your own dignity or compassion for the people whose half of the number has been destroyed as a result of the crimes of that cannibal, the monument you intend to place in Crimea. Stalinism, a species of fascism, will not pass into the Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u13	Vladimir Demökhin, "The One Ukraine" faction. Get Bronjikov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u14	Vladimir Demehin, faction of the "One Ukraine" party. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, my statement today, from the One Ukraine faction, concerns the most important issue in the life of our State. As we know, there are not many important issues and, in our view, this crucial issue today is the issue of modern economic policy in the context of constitutional reform. Our actions today remind the administration of the State of a forest fire rather than a forest fire. When we put out a small bucket of foam, and the upper fire is destroying our State's assets, such as national nadra, government property created by our fathers and grandfathers, these are state budget funds that are wasteless and disruptive. In this regard, our faction and the party supported the establishment of a temporary commission for State procurement control. The main issues that are clearly before us today are trying to resolve them differently, without uniting them into a system-wide problem. What are these questions? These are budget issues, the lack of transparency in the use of State budget funds. There should be no general and special funds. There must be one common fund, an absolute logic of its use and a clear plan, this is the Pension Fund and its problems. Today we have the problem of the deficit of the Pension Fund, the issue of the payment of military and pension pensions, the economic problems of the agrarian sector, the land market, protection of the internal market and WTO accession. Tax problems, they're badass SS and TPR. Every State Budget Act repeals a number of tax-related articles. What could be the system in this regard? Issues, problems of local self-government. We have granted serious rights, but we have taken money from local councils. A course on European integration, what is the goal or objective? This is a task, an interim task of joining the European Union and a course of accession to the WTO. Finally, the national ethnic relations through which Ukraine is being tried to divide west and east. And a number of other tasks, of course. We have confused systemic concepts such as goals, goals, means, and goals. And if you think about it, what is our main goal? In fact, it is the only one, our goal is the well-being of each of us and the well-being of the people, the well-being of everyone. The only way out of the situation is to develop and implement a common economic policy based on a systematic approach to modernism. And we will initiate a series of activities by the “One Ukraine” party and faction to achieve these goals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u15	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine, to prepare the Bartkovs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u16	Statement by the faction “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! Respectable radios, televised! By forgetting its history, the people are ruining their own future. Not only have many people's deputies recently received a notification from a non-performing PRA organization, but also from policies outside Parliament. These messages state that these politicians have either already entered on some “black lists” of enemies of the people or threaten to bring in persons who do not seem to be the right political sympathizers of PORA. The practice of making lists in our history has already been established. Remember the Imperial Gendarmerie Lists of Untrustworthy, Lists of Puppets and Pods, Fascist Lists of Commanders and Commissioners, Jews and Halfbloods, Lists of Dissidents. Yes, there have been few such abominations in history. In general, all such lists preceded the establishment of totalitarian and fascist regimes. Our Ukrainian intellectuals cannot help but know that intelligence has always been the first victim of totalitarian regimes and then the party on behalf of the people has begun to rule as shvonder. Ultimately, such States had established a Byzantine regime, where the principle of public life had become the principle of “do not move out” and corruption was a daily norm. Such countries were immersed in the darkness of darkness. In the end, the peoples have broken such regimes by rebellion and blood, or such States have been destroyed from the outside, and so have the blood of the common people. Ukrainians seek to live in the constitutional field by complying with the laws adopted in this Hall. The rule of law institutions have been established in our country to monitor compliance with the norms of public life. Among these rules, no one has the right to establish lists of politically unreliable, but the Ukrainian Security Service does not respond to the creation of “black lists” by the PRA organization. The faction “Regions of Ukraine” calls on all those who are able to influence the situation in the country to think about it later. Our people have already come up with a variety of initiators for making such lists, and it is worth remembering and exterminating the famine, and the shootings of communists by red commanders and Jews. We've used up fascism and totalitarianism with blood. We therefore state that in the present Ukraine they will not pass, the Constitution and the law above all. The faction “Regions of Ukraine” requires the Ukrainian Security Service to establish genuine initiators for the production of “black lists” and to cut down on the disgraceful practice of such massacres against political opponents by a civilized State. This application is considered to be an official request by the “Regions of Ukraine” MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u17	Basil Bartkov, Deputy Group Center, prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u18	Basil Bartkov, Ukrainian People's Party, Deputy Group "Centre". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I was forced to contact you on behalf of the group by the situation that took place today on the State Committee on the State Reserve. In 2002 a decree was issued by the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the release of the Ministry of Air Fuel Defence, a decommissioning reserve of the State Reserve by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's a state reserve. The State Reserve was obliged to release the Ministry of Defense in Ukraine for a total of 24,000 tons of aviation fuel at 36.8 million dollars. The term of return of the borrowed fuel or the payment of its value was fixed by 1.12.2003. However, in 1.12.2003 the Ministry of Defense did not return aviation fuel to the State Reserve, as the corresponding expenditures were not foreseen by the State Budget. And for his part, the Democratic Republic of Ukraine, which was headed by Mr. Pesocki Mikola Fedorovic during 2003-2004, did not make any attempts to return $36.8 million to the State Reserve. On the contrary, Pesocki entrusted his daughter’s DAK “Ucrreses” company with the right to transfer the debt requirement to a commercial entity which, in turn, was calculated with a committee in the person of the DAC “Ucrreses” with bills with an unsecured repayment term in 2008. It should be noted that all the circumstances and documents available indicate that the decision to define the above bills and the corresponding contracts were made by the Pesotics personally. The next day, Ukresas surrendered their right to demand for the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to a commercial structure that placed a bill of lading at the Ukraine State Reserve on the demand of its head. Recently, a group of deputies became aware that some forty million dollars had been forcibly written off from the accounts of the Ministry of Defence following a court decision on a commercial basis on the basis of contracts made by the head of the State Reserve. The results of so - called commercial transactions with the value of the State Reserve have been obtained as a Reserve instead of a cash reserve of 36.8 million bills of private commercial bills that have no bearing on the State Reserve system and do not in any way guarantee payment to the budgetary institution. Turning to this high court, I would like to point out that for six months neither the Attorney General nor the Cabinet of Ministers responded in any way to these abuses. I ask you, Your Honor Attorney General, the Honourable Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, to give due consideration to the actions of such high-ranking public officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u19	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. Prepare Hennadia Rudenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u20	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] We understand the process of changing the configuration of the political forces in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, even though we have our own view of the formation of the majority. The adoption of the principle of a new law on the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary opposition, which would provide conditions of activity, in fact, the opposition of which today's winners have repeatedly stressed, should be a concrete step in the legislative framework of the activities of both the majority and the minority. The faction suggests that the Supreme Council should adopt and take into account two conditions when the law is being drafted. The first, now in existence, drafts on this issue do not meet the conditions laid down. The second, the new bill should have, as it were, collective authorship, because any single author will always associate with either a majority or a minority. As a result, the faction proposes to give a protocol commission to the Supreme Council for the preparation of a draft Ukrainian Law on parliamentary majority and parliamentary opposition to the legal committee on legal policy. We believe that this approach to resolving the issue will avoid many issues and provide the necessary number of votes if the bill is put forward for consideration by the Supreme Council. The legislative formulation of the majority, a minority of the Supreme Council, of factions, is subject to review by the factions, including the distribution of committees. This step is motivated by the logic of the development of parliamentary life. We remind you: Yushchenka's team has consistently stressed that at least two committees: budget and freedom of speech - always lead opposition representatives, because this principle exists throughout the democratic world. In addition, one of Mr. Yushchenk's so-called decrees, delivered in the course of the Orange Revolution and once again promised to the people, must be carried out as a priority, saying directly that minorities would be provided with three committees: budget, freedom of speech, the fight against organized crime. We hope that the subsequent actions of the Yushchenka team and its team will be, as always, consistent. By the way, the adoption of the law will ensure the independence of the opposition regardless of its composition and the will of the winners or its absence. If talking about the new majority is a matter of honor for the new authority, perhaps the new majority itself should begin the process of redistributing powers in The Supreme Council, taking into account the interests of all parliamentary groups and factions. Obviously, only under such conditions will the newly identified pillars of democracy, which are headed by the above-mentioned committees, respond adequately and demonstrate the acceptance of democratic values and voluntarily constitute the authority of the heads. The faction considers it necessary to consider and adopt the Law on Guarantees of the Rights of Parliamentary Opposition at the next session. If this does not happen, the opposition in 2006 will be left out of the law one more time, and once again the slogan of new democracy will not be transformed into concrete democratic actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u21	The Democratic Initiatives MP Group passed on the right to speak to Hennadia Rudenka. Please, Hennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, almost three years of work in the Supreme Council have led me to believe that one of the main problems of today’s politics is mutual distrust of one another. Looking for someone to blame for this is a waste of time. The mutual mistrust of politicians, the rather common hammocked, uncultured attitude mirrored and, unfortunately, progressively spread to supporters of one political power or another. I hope that culture, education, will eventually take over yesterday's rules of political struggle and the terms "ours," "circumcised" is a story that's over. Because when we went to the Supreme Council, we wanted to make politics public and understandable not only for analysts but for ordinary people. Since 2002, I have claimed that the distribution of committees in the Supreme Council has been unfair, not responding to the deployment of forces in Parliament. Most were grouped around Prime Minister Yanukovic. Janukovic retired, and most ended. And with the support of the presidential candidate for the new prime minister, a new majority must be formed. Deputies! Do not make mistakes for the old majority. My colleagues have held back my initiative since 2002, arguing with more important initiatives, such as polytreform, budget, presidential elections. 2005 And the car is there now. From my point of view, trying to preserve this problem by 2006, namely, committee posts, it's irresponsible. And there is no need to be afraid of the turmoil and discussion on this issue. We're politicians, we need to discuss the problem in public, not silence. Not only did most of the past fall apart from ideological reasoning, but also because of the very large number of professional deputies, the prospective ones were not involved in an active sector struggle. From my work experience, I can call my formula for success. This is in every political power there has to be a sector. The political power has taken over the defence committee, and the Ministry of Defence must be in this political power. The Ministry of Ecology is the Committee on Ecology. But under full responsibility. Dear colleagues, is it normal to say for six months before the presidential election at committee meetings, "We've all gone to the front!".. At best, it was 50 percent. And then we'll talk about the quality of the bills. All responsible forces need to clear the personal lists of all the committees on visits and activities, not the number, but the quality of the bills awaits society. And the retreat, it's a normal practice in civilized countries that we're trying to go to. That is why I am asking, in the Parliament's consideration of my application for voluntary resignation, to support this decision. It's not a game, it's a responsible act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! The speech is given by Zara Katusheva in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request. All the necessary documents for this are submitted to the Bureau, I mean for the presentation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u24	The public, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the General Prosecutor's Office, the President of Ukraine, must be brought to the attention of the public again, regarding Professor Babanin, the Rector of the Crimean Meduniversity. The response I received was based on distorted, unilaterally provided information. The real picture of developments is that in December 2004, the head of the ILO Personnel Office and the Chief of the Legal Office of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, at a meeting attended by all members of the Rectorate of Crimea Meduniversity, ultimatively announced that all the prophets and deans of the University were in their posts illegally. Subsequently, the Acting Rector, Dudar, individually requested that a declaration of dismissal be made at his own discretion by the best part of the Rector of Crimea University, which is a pride not only of Crimea but of Ukraine as a whole. Such distinguished and respected members of the Rectorate as Professor: Koladze, Beloglasov, Kradinov; Associate Professors: Chirskiu, Sahaltuev. Other university staff and teachers, such as the well-deserved Ukrainian science and technology officer, the gold medal winner and the title of a scientist in 2002, 2003, the Cambridge Bibliographic Centre of Professor Efetov, the Deputy Dean of the pharmaceutical office of Professor Fomochkin, the head of the child surgeon Crimea Professor Sleptsov, the professor of humanitarian education and the educational work of Professor Gorlov. The mass dismissal of the progégés and deans of the Crimea University of Medicine was not carried out solely because the university had launched a massive natural protest of studentism, teaching and service staff and mass appeals against the President of Ukraine, the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the people's deputies. All the university's leadership, except for Dean Cirsky, refused to submit the required applications for resignation at their own request. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the massive, natural protests of studentism, two thousand foreign students and 1,700 professor-teacher groups took part in the student protest, causing great resonance in the press, on television, in the community of Crimea and Ukraine. The moral and psychological situation in one of Ukraine's best medical universities is extremely tense, which has brought international prestige to the university inexhaustible damage. Apoguem of all these events was the illegal decision of the court of the Pecher District Court of Kiev. Professor Babanin himself had not even been invited to the court and had been informed of the existence of his ruling several hours before his subsequent withdrawal, which was not in accordance with the rule of law, in addition to the fact that the case had been brought before a local court at the time of the decision by another court on the same matter, was contrary to the law of Ukraine. We, the people's deputies elected by the Crimea, are asking
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u25	Yes. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u26	You, Vladimir Mihajlovich, are urgently to take control of this issue. We hope that Professor Babanin will be reinstated as acting Rector before the legal decision of the court, thus normalizing the moral and psychological situation in one of the best medical institutions in Ukraine. I have also made a parliamentary request to the Office of the Prosecutor-General for the problem described above, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u27	Yes. Thank you, Your Honor, for speaking from the factions and groups over. Yes, please, Assadchev, the line is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, "Our Ukraine," I asked for a replica in connection with Mr. Bronnikov's speech, and I would like to say that if a person makes such statements that "Our Ukraine" makes up lists of untrustworthy people, he should do any evidence of such actions, or at least witnesses of such acts. Because if there's nothing to it, then we have the right to say that this person is telling the truth, I can tell you that "Our Ukraine" has always practiced and will adhere to exclusively democratic principles. And what Mr. Bronnikov said in his report here has nothing to do with democracy. If you've made these lists, you don't have to attribute it to our Ukraine. And we'd very much like you to give evidence, because if there's no such evidence, we're going to have anything from this rostrum, including the moral right to say that you're telling an honest lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen. You've done it before, you've already done it. At the front of the line, that's when we're going to exchange. He'll take the line again. Please. Bronnick's microphone. I'll take care of it without you. Don't give me a hint.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, if you would listen carefully to the statements, there's no mention of our Ukraine as a faction. And the lists, the “black lists”, are published on the Internet, and anyone can read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the system of pretrial investigation is under review. Reporter: National Deputy Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich. Michaela Alexiyovich will be the narrator. The committee's proposal is to review the question as follows: for the report, up to 3 minutes, the answers to the questions, 3 minutes, similar to the co-rapporteur, and 10 minutes of discussion and decision-making. What are others thinking? None. Then we'll follow the rules. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill on the system of pre-trial investigation bodies, which is being brought before you today, is extremely important and relevant to improving the rule of law and order in our State. We are bound by the Constitution of Ukraine to establish pre-trial investigation systems and introduce laws that regulate its functioning. For a long time, the possibility of establishing a single investigative facility in Ukraine, which would bring all investigative agencies together under one roof, has been under discussion. To date, however, there is no requirement or reference to the need for a pre-trial investigation system for the adoption of polytreform in the Ukrainian Constitution. Accordingly, the bill under consideration is the only document that establishes the requirements and rules for the establishment of such a system. The draft was the first attempt to identify the entire system of pre-trial investigations, the principles of their activities, tasks, legal framework and other related issues. Strengthening the professional core of investigative units, improving their quality, reducing the outflow of highly trained investigators, improving the logistics base of investigative agencies, and improving the functioning of the pre-trial investigation system as a whole will be a positive result of the adoption of the law. In turn, this will resolve, expand, significantly improve the quality of the work of the unit investigative system, in particular, significantly improve the quality of the pre-trial investigation and reduce the time frame for criminal investigations, which will certainly contribute to the improvement of the rule of law and order in our State. The bill also provides for the removal of investigative personnel from operational units, which remain only a function of organizing interaction between investigators and operational service staff. The lead investigators will be carried out only vertically, by the heads of the higher investigative units, with a significant increase in the level of responsibility of the investigators for the selection and placement of personnel, as well as the responsibility of each investigator for the final results. In view of the fact that, at present, due to the existing system of reporting of the HIPC, MVA and GNA are not alone in the irregular interference with the investigator's proceedings, particularly by the Chief of Investigation, the introduction of the above-mentioned system of pretrial investigations will allow the investigator's procedural independence. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would ask you to support this bill on first reading as a basis, it is very important to our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the report is complete, if you have any questions, please sign up for the questions. You don't? Please sign up for three minutes. Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u34	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! Please tell me, do you not think that it is best to accept the final version first, because we adopted the Law on the Status of the Investigator and its procedural guarantees in the first reading. Then we put them in the Criminal Procedure Code, which we adopted in the second reading, and then we're going to think and take other steps. Do you not think that consideration of this law will now harm both the first and the second, and will create such legal uncertainty? That's the first question. And the second. Do you feel that there is still a need for an investigator in the Tax Service? Now, during the election, they showed themselves very interestingly, like these politically engaged people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u35	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, you have already seen that the Supreme Council has recently been actively working and working, trying to work on drafts, and there is no difficulty that several bills will be considered in parallel if they do not conflict with each other and the concepts coincide, especially since we are all, and I hope, in particular, that more active work will be carried out in committees directly. And we often see with you working groups to finalize important documents. Today, such a bill and the investigator's procedural independence are very important for the entire law enforcement system. With regard to the State Tax Administration, first of all, this is a controversial issue, and I propose that it be adopted on first reading in order to further refine it in the Committee, to improve the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u36	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, please the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u37	Please give the word to my colleague, Valentin Grigorovich Matviyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u38	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u39	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Dear Vassil Vasilovich! Well, the first wish, and you've already said that in preparing for the second reading, if a bill is adopted in the first one, it would have to be considered that many of your bill's provisions are still declarative and do not have the proper regulatory burden. The bill also contains a number of rules that do not set rules but are sent to legislation as a whole. And this moment, I would ask you to consider this: what does it mean when you write in the bill about the speedy investigation of crimes? The term "fast" is quantifiable, its.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u40	Valentin Grigoryevich, knowing that to date, I am sure the work will indeed improve, especially in our committees, where it should go, of course, I cannot say for sure today that it is an ideal bill. Although we conducted, I mean, with my assistants, along with the Ministry of the Interior, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Tax Administration and those who participated in the draft law in the working group, we did not all of them, we probably did. There is a need for further refinement, and there is a need for improvement. And, of course, there are nuances that need further refinement. I am convinced that the experts of the Supreme Council, and above all the rule of law, will contribute to the improvement of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u41	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Time's up. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u43	The committee will address Mikhail Vasilovich Potekko - Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! The bill was considered on the committee, and the committee decided that it was appropriate to return the bill for further work. Why? The bill deals with the system of pretrial investigation. Today this system is, and I don't know why repeat what's already in the law. We have a lead in internal affairs, BS and tax administration, and we have a transitional period in the D.A.'s office. I understand--I'm sorry, Vasil Vasilovich, that. I suggest -- I think it's the idea of internal affairs bodies who have been trying to take the investigation under their wing for a long time. We stand in a position, the committee has fully agreed that it is necessary to follow the path provided for in the Constitution: the creation of a single investigative apparatus. Why? We need to put out an investigation into the dependency of internal affairs and other services: tax administration and BS, where there are operational services. One minister, one head of management, is in charge of operational work and is in charge of investigation. Thus, pressure is allowed on the bodies of the previous investigation. As far as the prosecutor’s office is concerned, she should also hand over the investigation. But once again, I say, that's why the Constitution says "transitional period." Given that the system is operating today, and it is not proposed by the author to take the investigation to the prosecution, so I think it is necessary to reject this bill at all, and in the future it will be called "the committee" or "the investigation office" is another matter. And the second point. The author suggests that we set up an ominous control. It is meant that the head of the investigative department should monitor the investigation and the minister of internal affairs, let's say, in the internal affairs system. It is now practically in the sense of coordination in article 17. Therefore, coordination and control need to be distinguished. Coordination really has to be. And today it is also written in procedural legislation between law enforcement authorities and executive authorities. So once again, I insist that the bill should be rejected, and go along in the future to create the only investigative apparatus I have no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u45	Any questions, dear colleagues, to Mikhail Alexiyovich? Please sign up. Three minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u46	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Dear Mikhailo Alexiyovich, like. I'll ask you the same question I asked the author. How do you feel about the fact that first you have to adopt a law in the second reading, which is now in your committee and adopted in the first reading, on the status of the investigator, then make changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, then you can adopt a law on the National Bureau of Investigation, where you meet the direct requirement of the Constitution. This is the first time. And secondly, how do you feel about the fact that during the pre-election campaign to ensure the execution, the post of Deputy Minister of the Interior in the investigation was abolished, effectively removed, sent on the annual vacation of Kolada Petr Vasilovich, a serious expert, and how to use it for such political purposes of the investigation. How do you feel about preventing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u47	On the first question, I have a positive attitude, and here you have the right question, and this once again says that the bill is to be rejected. And as for the other question, well, you know, it's a matter of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but I'm very positive about Christmas as a specialist, and I think he deserves attention as a specialist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u48	Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u49	Mikhaylo Alexiyovich, I am addressing you as a former comrade to our faction. Please tell me how much you have. As many departments or departments as we have in Ukraine right now, different ministries have the right to investigate. And the second. Would it not be the concentration of all those services in the same body that would monopolize all this work? There's no such thing. Is there any threat to our no-good system of justice?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u50	Sergei Ivanovich, thank you for asking. So, first of all, the 4 organs that run these organs that conduct the pre-trial investigation are internal affairs agencies, BS, tax administration and the Public Prosecutor's Office. On the contrary, I proposed not only today, but also as the Prosecutor of Ukraine and the Ukrainian RSR and as the Attorney-General of the single body. Why? Because the operational service exposes crime and it is not uncommon for us to find it a sticky defendant, and immediately, considering that the responsibility lies with one manager who is responsible for the operational service and for the investigation, they are seeking out questions and that is precisely the essence of the violation of the law. So we want to get this out, and what you're saying is that this is a stand-alone committee. The prosecutor supervises, if anything illegal, then he's already independent of this case investigation because it's not in its implementation, it's in the other body. And it's going to work, not on the principle of my interests, but on the principle of legality, so it's going to help establish the legality, but it's already going to have a public security specialization there, by. economics and further crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u51	Yes. Mikhail Vasilovich, thank you. Time's up. Let's get to the discussion, fellow citizens. We've talked to you for 10 minutes. Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction, to prepare Vasile nadrazi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u52	Vladimir Yavorowski. Yavorowski, Zovkovsky Districts, Viktor Yushchenka Block, honourable colleagues, seems Zadornov, if I'm not mistaken, said that all the normal peoples fight for democracy and for their future, only we always fight our past and always lose. This bill is designed, indeed, as a fight against it, give me a word of it, but the stupid past we had, because honestly in our entire system of justice, this chain has always been the most important period of pretrial investigation. As a rule, the court has been quick to accept a kind of approval that was formed by a trial itself. And you know, even if you give examples of people in this room who made very often fatal mistakes, it's mildly said whether or not other political orders were made and that t was carried out in a pretrial investigation. Because I also want to remind you of the tragic fate of the Agaphonov People's Deputy, who led the Science Company, who was actually rotted in a trial, and he died very quickly as a national deputy. I would also like to remind you of two national MPs, one previous summons and one today: this is the same Brodsky, which also, to the trial, actually, Andrew School did not reach the case. Well, it's convenient, though, that there was no better means of agitation than to vote for them than to be in prison, there simply wasn't, and one and the other were elected by the people's deputies. I could also refer to John Rudik as the national deputy of one vocation. I could also call Vassil Mushka and many, many others. Because of this, of course, for us, the adoption of this law, which will at least clear up these colossal floods, these colossal trends that have arisen in our caseivity, of course, are very important. But I would very much like you and I to think. It was very important to me when I read this law, and I want to remind you that this second edition is very different. [[By the way, it's his second edition, the first author made his own]] And I have this feeling that if there was a third, it would be even better, and it would be very different from the second. Because there really are a lot of generals in this bill. For me, let's say how important it is for a person, except that there's no pressure on an investigator, but on the other hand, I would like to have a presumption of the innocence of a person to do so, as it were, and this person who got into this situation is guilty or innocent, this court will set up, but that it will be protected, also by mechanisms, let's say, some kind of protection. Because I think it would be wise to do the third edition, make it almost perfect then, and only then accept it. In this paper, I cannot vote for this bill, although I thank Vasil Gavriluk very much for having gotten into this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u53	Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, MP's group "Soyuz". Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u54	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk region. I fully agree with all those who say that the subject requires special attention. I fully agree with what this subject requires, I would say, even a careful, intense attitude towards myself. However, I would like to say that I agree with the idea here that the bill is very important and very necessary, but requires substantive elaboration, so the proposals for recasting it and sending it to a later, so to speak, a large room for consideration have very serious grounds. Why? Well, let me make my point, maybe it'll be something great from the opinion of those who have spoken and will speak in this rostrum. But I think it's based on the basics that the bill repeats the existing legislation. I mean, it's a repetition. This raises the question: Do we need repetitive laws that will repeat what we have? Next moment. The point is that we want and it's useful to have a unified body of inquiry. But today is not the time, as the author said from this rostrum, that, in my view, is not exactly in line with the strategic direction for the development of this topic. Why? Because there is a unified body of inquiry in the entire civilized world, they do not have a departmental affiliation, as we have a prosecutor's office, a police department, a tax office that does either supervise and investigate, or search and investigation on its own, but still combines it in one hand. And when it came to the idea that the bill suggested that an investigation should be brought out of the custody of the heads of the territorial authorities and that they should be subject only vertically to their superiors, it seems to me that this is not such a lively moment. Why? Because if there's a head of authority, he needs to have an impact on the investigator for some reason. Well, there are always problems with appointment, housing and the mass of everything that makes up a person's life, including a specific investigator. Therefore, I think that speaking of what we need to do with the investigation, I am a proponent of the fact that we need to set up one body of inquiry, and everyone else should do their job: the police are looking for it, the prosecutor's office is overseeing it, and so on and so forth. I think that makes sense, and that makes sense. It was in agreement with those who had suggested that the importance of the bill was not questionable. However, it requires a thorough refinement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u55	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u56	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I will speak from the point of view of the person who has been investigating these matters himself, and the most difficult things that exist today exist. And so, I want to say that the law that we've been offered is absolutely declarant, and it has no, I emphasize, any regulatory burden. These 17 general articles are legal on 4 pages, it's a imitation of the law. I'm very good at my colleague Gabrieluk's initiative, and he reworked it for the first time. But it has to be processed a dozen more times. And we need to think about it. What's going on in the investigation at all, how does it work, how can we pull the investigation out of operational services today, how do we do it, why? What's the problem? But the problem is that the status of the investigator is uncertain, the problem is that the investigator is now in actual subjection to the head of the knowledge body. And now at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it's ridiculous to have a deputy in charge of the investigation, a post in general, Deputy Minister of Investigation. And so you have to clearly adopt the Law on the Status of the Investigator now, and then you have to make it clear in the Criminal Procedure Code, and you have to think about the whole thing, and that committee of inquiry that they're talking about, because Kazakhstan and Russia have already tried this and what's happened? Nothing! The experts are sitting here, both the King and the Ripper, and others who know it didn't work out. The final result of all operational services is the investigation, this is the elite, it's got to be the smarter, the more talented and, the more secure and the more morally secure, and technically, everyone has to work on them. But the ultimate goal is to get the case through court. So we have to move on to the trial. The court's investigation! How this is done, and by the way, it was even in Kingdom Russia, where such an institution existed. Obviously, the Special National Bureau of Investigation may also be talking about, but only later, only when there are normative and economic grounds for this, and when the situation will change altogether. Thus, according to the requirements of article 9 of chapter 15, the transitional provisions of the Constitution, adopted on June 28, 1996, provided for the formation of a system of pretrial investigation. It has to take place in stages, just as it is now being implemented by the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm against the adoption of this law, thank you. He needs to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u57	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Kornienko of the Cabinet of Ministers, position of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, the law that is proposed is necessary because there is no law that will strengthen the system of judicial investigation. But we agree with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Committee that this bill needs to be thoroughly worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u59	Thank you. From Mironenko's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u60	5 constituency, Ukrainian Comparty faction, Mironenko. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I share the view that it is necessary to send a draft law to be finalized for several reasons, although there are, of course, positive points, but the draft articles do not guarantee procedural independence, independence, do not pose significant obstacles to those who wish to bring disciplinary responsibility or to dismiss a strong, principled, persistent investigator who is not subject to bribes, contracts, pressure. Under the status of investigator, there is a need to bring the prosecutor, the judges, to a very responsible position. Secondly, article 11 should be deleted as it was not the investigator's case to deal with the preparation of international treaties. The Pre-Trial Investigations Act is extremely necessary, but requires careful refinement, I agree with Karmazin and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u61	Yes, thank you. For the reasons of Demyohin, please. Then Solomon’s motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u62	Vladimir Demehin, faction of the "One Ukraine" party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'd like to ask you to assign a mandate to our computer administration to verify the algorithms for the enquiries procedure. Statistics show that the system ranks questionable who pushes buttons according to the number of factions. Look, I respect my colleagues, but it's always "our Ukraine" that goes first, then the Company because they're factions with the largest number. I think it would be useful to change this procedure so that the rest of the factions can also ask questions and adopt an active debate on draft laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u63	You have, Your Honor, a full body. That's absolutely right. We discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council and concluded that we should record after the report and the reports, record, but not in such a way as to. Change system and approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u64	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, that's not what I mean. Regarding the bill's entry yesterday, and there, I think, it's not just one, it's three. I mean, when you ask me to sign up to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u65	That's exactly what I meant by doing this system to work. So that the first ones aren't the ones in which the most numerous factions are recorded, that we have a diversion and that everyone has equal opportunities. That's what this is about. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have already agreed, and we have given an appropriate commission to put this system to work. We're talking about the same thing. Please, Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u66	Thank you very much. Yuri Solomatin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will not finally understand: here are the two bills that we are currently considering: 5372 and 2364. Are they having a full-time discussion or a brief discussion? If complete, then not 10 minutes, but another, regardless of what the committee is offering 10 minutes or how many minutes. And now it's happening that laws that attract attention have to be discussed in full procedure. But even time is spent on these discussions less than in the short run. I would very much like to ask you to consider this line of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u67	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, when preparing for consideration, make suggestions and propose rules of procedure. In this case, the committee has proposed this rule, and I'm going to read to you, "For the report, four minutes, for the answer to the question to the reporter, three minutes, for the co-report, four minutes, and three minutes, respectively, for the discussion and decision-making, four minutes." I asked respectable fellow members of the national MPs, which may be a small one. This is 10 minutes, I'm telling you, who's got a denial. Everyone agreed to follow such a procedure. If there were any warnings, we'd be working 15 and 20 minutes. Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. You know, the committee's proposal is to send for work, i. e. for re-reading. But according to the Rules, the first sentence is to adopt the draft Law on the system of pretrial investigation bodies on the basis of registration number 5372. [[11:30:00]] For-60 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to re-read Bill 5372. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:27]] For a hundred and The bill was rejected. The draft Law on the Police of Local Self-Government is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur: Ukrainian National Deputy Volodymyr Dmitrovich Bondarenko The associate will be represented by the deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Protection Activities of Bandurk Aleksandar Markovich. Such regulations are proposed, dear colleagues, and I ask you to listen carefully. The committee offers five minutes to report, answers to questions in five minutes, for co-reports in three and three, discussion and decision-making in ten minutes. What Are the Thoughts? Let's go full, there's no objection. 45 minutes. All right, calm down. Please, Vladimir Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends! This bill has a long history. He presented himself in a slightly changed form and slightly with a different name in the previous call of the Supreme Council and discussed it. Unfortunately, I did not find support at the level of the Supreme Council Committees. Today, this bill needs to be radically reconsidered. Why am I saying this? Since the day it was written, there have been certain events in society that have brought much, let us talk, to our awareness of the role and meaning of the militia in society. In particular, when the bill was being drafted, I meant, as an author, that power is made up of two levels of power: central authority and local authority. Obviously, all elements of this power, including the militia, have to be designed at the central level and at the local level. We've developed a bill of conduct that would allow about 12 militia units, which are now in central order, to be transferred to the local level on a special basis and to perform these functions at the local level, using or correcting the law and only the law, not the direction of local officials. We've studied the world experience of this process and we're talking about how today there are both two-level, three-level police and they work within the framework of the law and there are no contradictions in their activities. We've developed personnel positions in this law, including the possibility of moving from the central police to the local individual employees and vice versa, with the preservation of rank, rank, rank, and so on. Again, a similar approach was developed to what restrictions the local police should be the highest rank in the local police force was recognized as "the colonel of the local police." This would allow local authorities to influence the militia to some extent. At the same time, especially in recent times, when society has become known facts of activity, including our central police, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, they have called for a rethinking of the very importance of the police in society, the subordination of this very important public authority, such a system of state power as an armed part of this power, the militia. And re-thinking whether there is public control over the functioning of this body or whether there is a possibility of impact. I don't think that's possible yet. We know today from the press, from the statements made by many participants in these events of the last period about the special role of individual senior police leaders. In particular, it is not clear where the minister of the interior is located today, whether he is being treated for a long time, whether he has fled or is hiding, incomprehensible. Today, we know about the fact that we are involved in the struggle against the people of large divisions, as some sources show, that there are up to 10,000 armed men against demonstrators in Kiev, and those orders given by Mr. Popkov, deputy minister of internal affairs. We also know a great deal of activity at the local police level. In particular, an investigation is under way today regarding the head of the Kyrovgrad militia, who was merely instructing him how to fight Yashchenk, spent an hour of 10 minutes, which, fortunately, was fixed on the nose, and today he answers that he was entitled to demand that militiamen conduct themselves in this way. Today, I am preparing some questions about the Church militia, including the local level, particularly regarding the head of the Zvenigradian DAI Department, Petrov Eugen Vitaliovich, who, under various circumstances, created a whole system of business, including gas stations, bars, shops, and the head of the district police at the same level required all militiamen to report discharges if Yushchenko wins. These people continue to work. So today, as the author of this law, I understand that a lot of things were written at the time, counting on everyone to act within the framework of the law, including central authority, including local authority. But any precaution. whether there are no influences to bring back the militia, both locally and at the top level. There are today a lot of problems in inter-budget relations in the area of police, when funding for individual units is being done at the local level not entirely legally at the expense of local budgets and so on, but taking into account that there has been a change of power in Ukraine and a new President has been elected, and in the near future a new Government of Ukraine will be formed, I, as the author of the Law, believe that order should be given in this area and more broadly suited to this problem with the creation of a new Police Act. I think we're going to have to create a special copyright team, and that's why, given all the circumstances, I think it's necessary, and as an author, I'm taking this bill off the table. I think I'll take part in the preparation of a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, since the author is revoking his Law, we do not need to discuss it. So it's taken off the bill, the registration number, that's for the protocol I'm saying, 2364. Yes. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation, the report by the Deputy Minister of Finance - Shapovalov Anatoly Vasilovich, will be delivered by Sergey Terjohin, from the Committee for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is today proposed for your consideration by the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation, which was signed during the 5th Ukrainian-German political consultations at a higher level in February. The agreement provides for loans to Ukraine for up to 11 million euros with a maturity of 40 years, including a 10 - year debt period. And the interest rate for using 0.75 years. In addition, grants on a free and non-refundable basis amounting to 3 million euros are foreseen to accompany measures to implement the necessary projects. The terms of the loan and grant arrangement will determine the individual credit agreements to be entered into with the credit institution for recovery. Loans are granted to implement the following projects: support for agriculture and private enterprises in rural Ukraine; development of a rural lending system; and support for the efficient use of energy by small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine. Thus, the implementation of the Kabmin Agreement with the FRF Government on Financial Co-operation will contribute to the development of rural lending and will enable small businesses in rural areas to obtain long-term and mainly low-cost loans. In view of the position of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, the treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is accepted without notice by the relevant authorities of the State. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? I can see that there are questions. Please sign up. Three minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Eugene Gorenik, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u72	Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" Block. Dear reporter, I have a question like this. [[I'm here.]] There's a rather interesting article 3 in this deal. It establishes that the credit institution for the reconstruction is exempt from all taxes and other congregations that are collected in Ukraine in connection with the conclusion and implementation of the contracts set out in Article 2. What does that mean? Would it not be possible for the Germans to give us their equipment, which will be exempt from all taxes? And why is this article omitted from the treaty without any specificity?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. Indeed, this covenant provides for exemption from taxation. But this is only about the revenue that comes from this loan, it's not about any equipment, it's just the amount of credit. That is 0.75 percent of the year-olds who will receive a credit institution for reconstruction will be exempt from tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u74	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u75	Rodonov, the Communist faction. The distinguished rapporteur, the first question, will you explain again what these are for the benefits that the enterprise is exempt from additional taxes? So that's the first one. And the second. We have a known system and for 13 years we've been taking loans, then these loans, as they say, but figuratively speaking, have been sprayed on their pockets, and the result has never been. I have a question. What is the transparency of the implementation of this loan? That's how citizens will know what businesses they've got, what they've done? Otherwise, these are all the heavy credits that have already led Ukraine to what we have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u76	Thank you. Well, first of all, once again, I'm saying that no businesses that will use these loans are exempt from tax, but the credit institution itself is freed to rebuild Germany, that is, the creditor institution is exempt from taxation in Ukraine. With regard to the transparency of lending, the loan itself will be granted either by the authorized bank or by the Ukrainian-German fund. I mean, the Ministry of Finance will make a deal with the credit institution to rebuild, and this agreement will provide a mechanism for lending these loans. These loans will be granted with the agreement of both the German institution and the institution that will jointly elect the Ukrainian government along with the bank for reconstruction in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u77	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u78	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Your Honor, I have a question like this. The agreement provides for 3 million euros in grants and projects to support lending, and the development of a rural lending system. We already know very well that not once in a while the grants that operate in Ukraine are that experts who come from abroad, who are financed, who get paid from that money, and in fact we are creating only jobs for experts who come to Ukraine and then no results. The question is about lending to agriculture. Please tell me, are there any clear conditions for reporting these grants so that people can really benefit from this in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u79	Thank you. Indeed, the agreement provides for the provision of 3 million euros to support the organization of projects, these grants on a non-returnal basis and are certainly not budgeted. Secondly, normally the creditor determines, so he gives the money and he determines who will implement it. Unfortunately, it's an international practice, you know, that it doesn't just exist in our country. And I think that, after all, the funds that will be used will go to the schools and the economists of small businesses, and how to prepare reports, how to prepare a business plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Time's up. Sit down, please. Sergey Teryohin, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u81	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, Mr. Chairman! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting yesterday considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation. Registration number 0249. The agreement between Kabmin and the Federal Republic of Germany was signed on February 20, 2004, in Berlin, a year ago. This agreement provides for the lending of grants to Kabmin, a credit institution for reconstruction located in Frankfurt am Main. Ratification and validity of the agreement will allow for loans and grants from the FRF government, with the aim of implementing projects to support agricultural enterprises and private enterprises in the rural region of Ukraine. The development of a rural lending system, support for the efficient use of small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine and other projects that will be defined jointly with the parties to the agreement. Departments of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine, Minfin, and other central and local executive bodies will be involved. The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany provides an opportunity for the Cabinet of Ministers, or other beneficiaries, to obtain from a credit institution a total of 1 million euros, with a maturity of 40 years. The interest rate is 0.45 percent per year. So that's three times less than the average interest rate now on the credit market, and grants on a free non-refundable basis totalling 3 million euros to support the implementation of the projects. The use of grants and the terms and conditions under which they are granted will be determined by individual credit agreements to be made between the credit institution and the borrowers. Such agreements already have a corporate character and should not be ratified. And the adoption of this bill will be supported by the main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the stated and the purpose of the agreement becoming effective, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Federation on financial cooperation. Again, registration number 0249. And I want to add from myself that the questions that were asked about tax exemptions only apply to the credit institution for reconstruction, i.e. no interest and commission to pay for these credit agreements, that's 0.75 percent. No more layoffs are foreseen. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to make a positive decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u82	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues! We agreed when the ratification goes on, we ask the interviewer questions, and the committee, he just says his position, we don't put it on him. If you don't mind, let's follow that logic. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, let me put to the vote the draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation, registration number 0249. Please vote. [[11:48:11]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. For reasons, George Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity Block of Our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I asked you for motive because I raised my hand and was written down. We did the right thing by ratifying this agreement. It's a pity that only 11 million, not 11 billion, is that the sum, that's a pity, because then we would have supported the village better. But the Science Administration recorded two of these, very important moments. First of all, to make it more clear that the terms and conditions for us to lend to performers in the grant ratification, and to set up regular reporting on the contract implementation process. It's so that it doesn't happen the way we already did, where we now have billions of debt. I would like you to be instructed by the Committee on Budgets, together with the government, to regularly inform about the implementation of international agreements. That'll be just fine. Thank you. A new power, any authority must be controlled.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u84	Thank you. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments for the government and the Budget Committee. Mikola Nightshenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u85	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160 constituency. I'm out of procedure. I fully support the question raised by Demöchin. Yesterday I recorded five times — and above the fourth I didn’t pick up. Today again at the recording of Demyochin the Fifth, Noshchenko the Sixth. There is a request for a settlement, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to increase time for questions: not three minutes, but five minutes, because three minutes is two whole questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u86	Okay. In each case, we will agree on the rules of procedure. If it takes 10 minutes. Do we have a deal? It's gonna be okay. Alla Alexandrovska, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u87	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I believe that the Supreme Council has done the right thing by ratifying this agreement. But I have a series of warnings. The fact is that, as this treaty is between the Cabinet of Ministers, the Government and the guarantor of its implementation are the Government, which means the budget. This means that if some enterprises, organizations receive this loan and are unable to carry out this loan, i.e. pay the value of the loan and interest, they will pay, they will reimburse the budget. I would therefore consider that such matters should be subject to the ratification of such agreements by the budgetary committee and should be subject to further monitoring by the budgetary committee for the implementation of those agreements, because in any event, the repayment of that loan would fall into the budget of Ukraine if the perpetrator refused to do so. I draw your attention to the need for such a procedure in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u88	Thank you. Mironenko, please, microphone. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u89	Mironenko, Crimea, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! This bill is supported, but what's troubling? In fact, we see, first of all, our constant dependence leads to what? To increase our debt, it is growing, growing and our children will have to be given away, and the efficiency of using credit is negligible. Not only do they often get excited, but now Karamzin has told us right now that it is necessary to make a report, but I will, I'm sure, a lip report. We can't figure out how to spend money. However, the same agreement states that the above-mentioned projects may be replaced by other projects on the mutual agreement of Governments, and at any time they will agree and spend as they deem necessary, without our particular control, I assure you. Let's move on. $3 million for service, it's a hell of a lot. And 11 million is a loan. It's a loan. It is better for us to strive to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, we have already passed a law on ratification. What are we talking about? The draft Law amending the Civil Code of Ukraine is being complied with. [[concerning the limitation of the right of control of an account]] Registration number 5507. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Aleksandar Volodymyrovich will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill, which you are considering, called upon to resolve the problem of the inadequacy of the rules of several laws of Ukraine, is the rules of article 1074 of the Civil Code of Ukraine and several provisions of the Laws on the Enforcement of Implementation, the “Recovery of the Payment of the Debtor or the Recognition of It by Bankruptcy” and the Criminal Procedure Code. The point of the problem is when and in what order you can cancel the money from the debtor’s account and when and in what order you can arrest these funds so that they cannot be used. The text of the law has one sentence: "Constraint of the customer's rights to manage the money at his expense shall not be permitted except in cases provided for by law." So those laws adopted by the Supreme Council have become valid, they can regulate those moments. when it is prohibited to use its own funds or write-offs. That's the point of the problem. Why did this question arise? We have today the right of several organs to arrest the funds at the expense of the account. This refers to the moment when a court decision is made on the debtor, whether it is a natural person, or whether it is a legal person who owed to another natural person or a legal person, and the court has established that there is a debt, the decision has acquired legal force, it must be enforced. In this regard, the law provides today for the right to arrest funds, if the debtor is not voluntarily counted, to write them off. If you imagine that this will not be possible, then there is a 100% guarantee of slowing down the execution of judicial decisions and a very high probability that the number of decisions that cannot be implemented will increase significantly, in principle, never, because we have very many standards that work to protect the interests of those who are guilty, those who have already been judged by the court, such as those who have violated laws and acquired foreign property, we will protect them, and those who have to return theirs, if we say we need to appeal to the court again, to allow those who have already obtained legal power after the decision of the court, in accordance with article 124 of the Constitution, we will again require that we appeal to the court with the right to take these funds away from the debtor and to give those who he has taken. I'm thinking clearly what this could lead to. There is another detail regarding the investigator’s right to make an arrest in the event that a criminal case is a violation of an offence, or perhaps a crime that is under investigation, and the article provides for the confiscation of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u92	Thank you, please, Head of the Legal Policy Committee of Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich. No Musiyaki? Victor Lavrentiovich, please, Victor Lavrentiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the project proposes to replace the existing court order by restricting the customer's rights to money that is at his expense for the possibility of setting up different cases to limit this right in the Law. In other words, in that sentence, which Alexander Volodymyrovich called, I apologize. Alexander Volodymyr called that sentence, one sentence that we are currently discussing is thrown out in court cases. In discussing this issue, the Committee came to the fore primarily from the fact that the Constitution provides for the distribution of the jurisdiction of the courts to all relationships that exist in society and more, of course, and to the rights of property, among which is an object such as the costs belonging to a citizen, a natural person who is at his expense in any financial institution. And when it comes to the fact that only by decision of the court can money be limited, the committee ruled that there would be restrictions on the rights already declared by the court, which would be contrary to article 22 of the Constitution, which states that when new laws are adopted, it is impossible to limit rights in comparison to how the law already provides for guaranteeing them. And so the committee believes that the current edition of article 1074 of the Civil Code is consistent with the Constitution in all of these situations, which I am calling it, and also with regard to the position of article 41 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right of the individual to the individual's private property to various objects, including the one on which it is referring. Therefore, the committee concluded that it was necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be rejected, or rejected. Well, if it's rejected, then you can take the Chernewsky's decision on inadmissibility. You know, when we don't vote in favour of the bill, it rejects automatically or we vote in favour of the non-admissibility order, and then the bill doesn't pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u94	Thank you. There is a decree of inadmissibility. Please, Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u95	Few people, of course, can vote. I want to. Honourable Presidential and Honourable People's Deputies. I would like to remind you that we have solemnly passed a law, 386 votes, on the abolition of an unacceptable write-off. What Minister Lavrinović is proposing, he would not be proposing right now, because, of course, it's from the opera when he was in charge and he was sitting there in the party and sung criminal power. All of this leads to entrepreneurs becoming a tool in the hands of the government, which can be applied without a trial. Yeah, I didn't get to introduce myself. The Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Chernovetski, Our Ukraine faction. Thank you for the applause. I want to say that we have defeated all the factions, voted twice in favour of this law. This is the first time we've eliminated the 220 unacceptable write-off in there with a few votes. For the second time, we overcame the President's veto and did not even fear it either by the communists or by the SDPU, and voted that the Institute of Unacceptable Write-offs should be abolished. Today, we have another option to address this issue. This is irresponsible on the part of the Ministry of Justice and illegal. Because the problem is not only that some bad uncle will take and write off a businessman's money, which contains a number of jobs and pays his money in the budget and local, and a high-level pensioner and communist and socialist and our Ukraine, and anyone. That's not the problem at all, and the problem is not only that this entrepreneur will cease to exist as a phenomenon, is it? But jobs would be lost and it would be possible to sue the State if the poor, corrupt uncle did not necessarily close the account. God does not allow you to uphold this law. In general, I am ashamed that such laws would be taken and refused by the Government of inertia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we will make a decision? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u97	Please, Karmazin, prepare Mironenko. I can't see Carmine. Is it? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u98	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The proposed bill is certainly very interesting. Despite the fact that there is only one sentence to accept, there are several reasons why the Civil Code has been brought into line with the rules of the Criminal Procedure Code, the Ukrainian Laws on Enforcement, and the Procedure for Repaying Taxpayers' Liabilities to Budgets and Target State Funds in accordance with it, not the other way around. Such a question may exist. There may also be a question that we decide at a committee meeting, that a valid editorial is in line with the principles of the rule of law enshrined in article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and that is why nothing can be changed. But given that the oligarchs are going to hide all their possessions today, what are the costs of the accounts of those who stole state property, the question arises: How can the investigator investigate the case or the prosecutor? Is he supposed to arrest him? May. Is this arrest supposed to be secured? May. If we make the same change as Minust suggests, will this be a guarantee of the proper protection of State rights, the rights of other citizens? I don't think it's full. So the truth is in the middle. It seems to me that this truth has been captured by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which has proposed the adoption of the law in the first reading, but article 1074 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, paragraph 1, of which reads as follows: "Constraint of the customer's rights to manage the money at his expense shall not be allowed, except in cases of limitation of the right to command by a court in cases established by law, unless another order of such limitation is established by law." This will be the purest, most correct definition of this moment and the best provision of the interests of the state on all sides, and the protection of the interests of citizens, it will also not be seen as a violation of the valid Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the jurisdiction of the courts extends to all the legal relations that arise in the state. And right now, we're seeing, in court hearings, what's happening right now in the Supreme Court. So I'd like to ask you to accept it on the first reading, and I'd like to move on to the revision proposed by the Ministry of Justice. And I would like to hear the opinion of the Minister of Justice. If he agrees, we all have to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u99	Mironenko. Onboard to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u100	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. Respectable national MPs, respected compatriots, respected Adam Ivanovich! The Ukrainian Comparty faction supports the committee's proposal to reject the bill. And I personally think that's the right thing to do, because I'm very afraid of the continuation of the negative things that often happen. I, however, accept somewhere what was said to previous speakers, he is indeed a specialist, of course, in this case, I respect his point of view very much, but, at the same time, I fear what is happening very often. Any Government, regardless of its political colour, ideology, will seek to take as much authority as possible, any official in this interest, and naturally we will see and see, and, through this law, if we accept, we will see even more abuse, and this could lead to business bankruptcy, could lead to greater negative consequences. If you stop you already know the problem of the enterprise will arise, but I also agree with the banker. The point of view is correct in this regard, but the only thing I disagree with is the previous banker, and I ask him to continue speaking more clearly, because when he says that the Company is afraid of someone, no, the Company is always the bravest, most persistent advocate of the interests of the people. Please tell him that. And the question is, if he repeats it often, I think why does it happen so often? Well, he's probably a private banker, so he's afraid of the positions of communists who assume domination and in the banking sector, it's the public sector. And why are we behind this? Private banks, including its own, charge a huge interest on credit, thereby damaging the economy, leading many businesses to bankruptcy, rising unemployment, depriving credit, and so forth. And of course, our position, the communists, about setting up public enterprises, investment, credit, which would provide accessible interest, available loans under a small, reasonable percentage of 8-10 per cent. Of course, he doesn't like it, because it's going to reduce his huge incomes, and he, I get it, he's an oligarch, because he often says "aligarch." Who are the oligarchs? They are major capitalists who have an impact on the economy and politics. So I ask this oligarch to be more thoughtful, to speak more honestly, and then we can treat him more in good faith, and I would like to think very much about lowering the bank's credit rate. This is what all the enterprises of our Fatherland need, the economy is needed by the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u101	Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u102	Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! With all due respect for the drafters, I cannot personally, like our committee, support the amendment to article 1074 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which deals with removing a court from the issue of dispute resolution that may be related to cat management in a bank or in another credit institution. I'd like to remind you what's essential. The rights enshrined in the Constitution are property rights. It means to have full ownership, use, and control of our property. This is enshrined in article 41 of the Constitution. If you make any exceptions to the cost limit, I don't think that's exactly the right conceptual approach. What is the difference between the cost and, say, the house? Then let us give the house the same way without the court’s decision to partially restrict the right to use, other property. I think my colleague Leonid Chernewicki's right, who believes that there is absolutely no reason for the bill to be approved here, and there is reason to adopt or vote on his decision to be unacceptable. So the committee made, in my opinion, a balanced decision. We discussed the problem quite carefully on the committee. It was clearly reported by Victor Musiak as a great expert, professor and doctor of civil law and not only in civil law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u103	Solomonine. None. Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u104	Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine" faction. The question is not as simple as it seems. The issue of debt write-off should be settled through the court -- it's an axiom and I support it, and we voted for it. But the court's rulings are once and for all about 50%, and the executive department is unable to execute the court's decision. In this regard, another court decision is needed to enforce the court’s decision. You have to go to court twice to get your money back, and the case can get to just 5% or 10% of the debt. The problem is that the court's decision is that virtually no one can get the money, that's what the problem is. The next one has the right to arrest an account. When arrested, for example, as a result of an accident, the owner sells the car, sells the apartment, then says, "I have 300 dollars' salary," and doesn't pay the victim back. It happens very often and doesn't want to pay. The right of an investigator to arrest an account is contrary to the Civil Code. Today, the standards of various laws apply to the same issue. That's what the problem is and the nerve. The way out of the Colosseum is to harmonize the rules of the Civil Code, the Procedural Code and the Law on the Recovery of Payability of the Debtor. This is what Parliament is about to do. We need to harmonize the standards of these two Codex and the same Law. What should we do in this situation? And what I'm going to say is, directly, what I'm going to say is that it's kind of a palate, it's a radical solution to the problem, and once again, I'm going to point out, it's a harmonization of the norms of two codes and one law. In this situation, I also share the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office that more specifically article 1074 (1) of the CCW should be drafted as follows: the limitation of the client's rights to the administration of the funds at his expense is not allowed, except in cases of limitation of the right to order the account as decided by the court. In cases established by law, if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u105	Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on the inadmissibility of the Chernevski ruling]] Vote. [[12:47:23]] For-50 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5507]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:52]] For-34 The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, before considering the matter, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Noshchenka Mikoli Petrovich from the Trudovina faction and the NDP. The draft Law on Supplements to the Civil Code of Ukraine, registration number 5616, is under consideration. [[about the circle of notes]] Report to the people's deputy, Matvienkov, to prepare the Musiyaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u106	Well, I asked you to figure out what you're talking about, and then we'll talk about unacceptableness. Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft proposal seeks to eliminate the disagreement between article 4 of the Bill of Exchange of Bills Act and article 198 of the Civil Code. Article 4, the basic conditions for the issuance of promissory notes are laid down. The issuance of a bill only for the payment of the cash debt for the goods actually delivered, the work performed and the services provided. Thus, the law was put on hold for the release of unsecured, unburdened, including false promissory notes. However, by implementing the provisions of article 198 of the Civil Code as of 1 January 2004, which provides that the non-compliance with obligations to meet the securities, with reference to the absence of an obligation, shall not be fully nullified by article 4 of the Bill of Exchange Act. The application of article 198 of the Ukrainian Civil Code may result in such negative consequences for Ukraine's economy as: (1) the issuance of unsecured securities; (2) the complete uncontrolled issuance of bills, where enterprises, at least in some way, have prevented the need to take account of existing debts at the expense of material values; and, in view of the removal of such a restriction as commodities, the issuance of bills may be completely unmanaged. Most importantly, article 198 of the Ukrainian Civil Code facilitates the issuance of false bills. Just think about it, quality-made printing and signatures are sufficient grounds for write-off of any amount through the bank that serves the enterprise. Counterfeiting a currency that requires and has 20 degrees of protection and is punished to some extent is indeed a mechanism, so to speak, protected. But why fake a bill if you can use a fake bill? Once again, one seal and two signatures can be removed from the enterprise any amount. The names of the false promissory notes already known are calculated by hundreds of millions of bracelets that now walk literally around the country. For example, the circulation of 13 false bills of 120 million, allegedly issued by the Mariugal Metalworks Combined Name Ilic, is already known today. And the falsified 15 million bills, which the Luganese Pipeworks allegedly imitated, were managed by the fraudsters to implement the government company Naftogaz Ukraine, which would not have happened when the company checked the bills. The only possible degree of protection against falsification is evidence of a lack of money owed to the product. Only a direct rule of law can bring order here. The proposed bill does not aim to completely amend the provisions of article 198 of the Civil Code, since this article regulates the fulfilment of securities obligations in general. It only monitors its rules, taking into account the existing laws and the international treaty on the procedure of issuance and circulation of bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u107	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u108	I want to say one thing, if we don't put order in the matter and the apherists will understand the essence of the issue, I think they will all be eating, and the banks of Chernevsky, including those that are now talking about rejection. And those banks that serve large industrial enterprises, because we have to put in serious order here, once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u109	From the committee head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u110	Dear National Deputies! This project is aimed at eliminating the disagreement between article 3 of the Ukrainian Bill on the circulation of billings in Ukraine, under which promissory notes are only issued to form a financial debt for goods actually placed, works performed, services rendered. [[special law applies to promissory notes]] Also between article 198 of the Civil Code, which speaks of the following: A refusal to comply with an obligation certified by a securities reference to a noncommitment is not permitted. Since the Civil Code generally speaks of securities without reflecting the specificity of such securities as bills, in this case there is a contradiction between these two positions. And it turns out that, regardless of the basis for the issuance of the bill, the requirement for the issuance of the amount provided by the promissory note must be met. As for the law, if the law is applied, it is only when the bill is provided with appropriate services, work, or supplies. This is the problem. And this is what a colleague has been talking about, which is causing concrete, real consequences, negative, the existence of this contradiction. We think that, in this case, the Chief Administration of Science and Technology is absolutely right in that it is necessary to accept it in the first reading, because there is a problem. We have to work out this bill, coming out just from the fact that the bill is also a valuable paper and an abstract agreement when it comes to the fact that it does not require that reinforcement be directly linked to a commitment. So we have to work on that. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u111	Thank you. There's an inadmissibility order, please, Chernewick.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u112	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies and those who listen to us! I want to say that the law, in principle, has been passed with a noble idea, but since there's obviously a problem with how it's going to work, with fantasies, I'll tell you what the problem is. Today, if the bill is set. We've introduced permanent treatment. That's great! I mean, there's a bill between me and the lawman. We have to pay for it. If one of us has not delivered the goods, then there are UBOP, UBEP, KGB and so on, and those that must immediately arrest the one who did not deliver the goods. No, he didn't give up anything. Well, that's fine! They arrested this man in the second that the bill came to the right person on the side, and that's where it all ends. But what will result from the law you have proposed? It will lead to the total elimination of the right to life in Ukraine, because anyone to whom the bill is due today is obliged to pay, and in this sense of permanent treatment. Unless he is obliged to pay and can invoke the law that the goods have not been delivered, he refuses to pay the bill. The law is in fact reactive and eliminates the European institution of long-term treatment. Then the factory manager says, "Sorry, you didn't give me the goods," and he said, "Nobody cares." The case is being transferred to court, the bill cannot be placed in the bank. And what they're saying today is that I fully agree with Mr. Matvienko. But not only do they steal bills, they steal everywhere. The Government was robbed wherever possible, both from the air and on the ground and from the village council and above, and anywhere. But this is no way to address the global problem. So I say out of respect that the person who passed the law is decent. And I will not insist particularly on voting on my ruling, but such a law cannot be passed. We can run some other system, but actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss matters? Yes. Please, Karmazin. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u114	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! This is a very difficult question that has been raised, and I thank my colleague Matvienkov for raising it, although in the way he proposes, the law can only be adopted in the first reading. Only in the first reading. Because there's a big problem here, and I already have people complaining about where banks are now stealing money just like that, in a hurry. Banks go crazy, make it look like there's nothing there, pay in the courts and around. I've asked a question right now to a person who's acting as Attorney General, Mr. Piscoscot, about criminal offences on this issue, but they're being investigated as wet as ever, as a man can when he's being assigned by his oligarchs to investigate crimes against oligarchs. So here we have to listen to the science-expert department, where a good analysis was done, and specifically, the dentist offered a very good solution to the situation. Accepting the first reading is my offer, once. And write article 1, paragraph 2, of article 198 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, and not the other way around, a special law in this option is to "refuse from the performance of an obligation certified by securities with a reference to the absence of grounds of obligation, except in cases provided for by law, or not to be allowed to do so". That's the first one. And the second. "The position which, according to the draft, is being submitted to the Civil Code of Ukraine, is to be transferred to article 4 of the Billing of Bills in Ukraine", to which Matthew proposes to amend it by supplementing it with new parts, similar to the content of the additions that we now make to the Civil Code: "The holder of a bill of lading issued for lack of obligation for the goods actually delivered, the work performed, the services provided, has the right to present requirements for the proper fulfilment of the obligation, which is marked by this bill, only to the person who passed the bill to him" and to no other person. An issuer of a bill or an accentor of a translation bill is entitled to refuse to pay with a reference to the absence of a liability for the goods actually delivered, the work performed, the services provided, the certified bill. So this law will change its name, because it will be called: "To make changes to the Civil Code and to the Ukrainian Bill of Exchange of Bills in Ukraine." That's what I would ask you to change the name of this law. I think Matvienkov has to agree with this on the second reading, and add these things. Then it's an absolutely brilliant law that puts all the horns on the way to those who want to rob both their companions and the state, and they don't want to have an honest business relationship in the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u115	Thank you, but we don't have the Attorney General's responsibility. We have the Attorney General. Mironenko, please. Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u116	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable compatriots! Dear Adam Ivanovich! The faction of the Company of Ukraine supports the proposal of a special committee, and it is appropriate to support it because it will be in accordance with the interests of the economy of Ukraine. When I listened to the speakers, I thought, well, why do individual bankers also oppose the priority development territories, although they have shown their progress around the world and are beneficial to the economy, and against such a bill. What's the matter? Is that what this is about? Why not, what's the benefit? Because there's always some benefit to being human, either for or against. Well, in my opinion, this is about the market for the stock of securities that banks are associated with. And from here, probably the answer. Banks also often profit from large interest loans, a giant interest rate, thus stifling the economy with bills. That's the interest. And I would ask respectable bankers not only who just spoke, but all private bankers, private bankers, to finally return to the wrong land to the economy. They draw attention to trade where capital trafficking is quite quick and trading enterprises can repay credit, even at a high rate, but industrial enterprises, agricultural enterprises require a completely different credit - normal than any State in the world. And it is time to understand what really needs to be done to link goods and services to everything: money, bills of goods and services. And I'm just amazed, even Pushkin, the great writer, the great poet, unlike some bankers, knew the economy better and talked about how States are getting rich and why they don't need gold when they have a simple product. And now we don't pay attention to the simple product, whether it's an industrial product, whether it's an agricultural product, whether it's a specific service to the population, or whether it's a commercial product, or whether it's a specific service to the population, it's the masters who are the bankers. Please think about the economy and the people for a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u117	Yuri Solomatin, get ready for the Mining.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u118	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. The honourable colleagues, who had spoken very aptly and clearly on the substance and the bill, and they had pointed out the right points of scientific expertise and when I was preparing for the presentation, I had thoroughly studied this bill and I agreed with the observations that were presented in the scientific and expert opinion, so I think I'll say the following words: I need to support, take the basis of these bills, he's doing his very good work, he'll decide. But I would like the remainder of the time that I have on the issue of promissory notes at all, to draw our common attention to the problem of promissory notes. Wexel is more than just a valuable piece of paper, a commitment. Wexel is, in a popular sense, and a certain promise that we politicians make to our voters and that sometimes, and sometimes often, do not. I have letters from voters coming to me as a national deputy of Ukraine. And lately it's just been a stream of letters from voters who are complaining about a candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents who's promised so much, but he didn't do anything. And that's why I want to remind the President of Ukraine of what I said yesterday. You have to respond to the disability of the second group, the deputy of the Sazon village council of the Dnipropetrov district of Salov Viktor Volodymirovich, to the promises you made during your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u119	By law, please, Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u120	I'm done, I'm in law, I'm talking about promissory notes. And the second one. He writes a letter from Kiftenko Eugenia Yegorovna in Luhansk region and asks such questions as this, Russian. Well, I can't listen to this bad guy from Chernevski when he insults everyone. And I think he's got something on his mind. But who elected him to the deputies? Is he drunk as usual? I don't understand this man, you're all listening to him, because no one's gonna put him in a position, he's telling everybody the shit. And so on and so forth. I can give you this letter and tell this voter that you're here to do no good. I thank you for your attention, and I hope that those bills that we give in the moral sense of that word, our constituents, must be done with dignity and fullness. Thank you, and I'll hand you a letter from Kiftenko Eugenia Yegorina. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u121	A miner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering a very specific law and a particular problem. And it's pretty important, so to be distracted by other subjects in this discussion is hardly appropriate. And it's not as simple as they say. And it has nothing to do with the subjects that some of my predecessors spoke of. In fact, there is a problem of promissory notes, counterfeiting seals, and the like. It has to be decided. But is the proposed project the solution? I have doubts and, really, let's talk, there's a bill on the circulation of promissory notes, so not only does the colossion get removed, because it's just this circulation that stops. Well, if we want to do that and we're talking about joining Europe at the same time, I don't understand a little bit. I'm not sure that adoption is just on the first reading, and with the amendments that science and expertise have made, it solves this problem. So I think we need to do more work on the law to make sure that this text doesn't really cause us trouble with the circulation of promissory notes. And about the bills themselves, and about the meeting itself. Adam Ivanovich, well, you often make comments about what people say on the subject, and at that time you let your fellow party know all that God has to do with it. Very good, Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u123	Please, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u124	Peter I said to speak without paper, because the fool can see right now, and it appears here in the hall, and in front of our radio audience. And what I'm saying is that it's not the Communists talking about bills. The Vessels that you and your predecessors released in 17 years were long since starved, World War II, and the riots you brought. You still have to keep your mouth shut for 70 years until your era is over. As for the law, I think we need to go back to re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u125	Yes, please, a line. A black man with a motive for voting is one minute and a Cherniewecki replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! The problem is that there are many weightless promissory notes in circulation that are unconfirmed. And this problem needs to be addressed, including legislation. Why did it arise? There was a conflict between the two laws, between the fourth article of the Bill of Bills, which requires confirmation of the bill and the Civil Code, where it is written that the bill should be paid and then considered its origin. In this connection, it is proposed that the bill be commercially validated in order to establish a link between the bill and the commercial confirmation or the goods or services on which the bill is issued. So it's focusing on the fourth article of the Bill on Bills. I think it may not be a radical solution, but at least now, in specific circumstances, a political decision, but it's the right one, it's the right step in the right direction. I propose to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u127	Thank you, please, for the Czervetsky line and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u128	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, it's noble of you to give me an opportunity to answer. Dear People's Deputies, distinguished Chairman! Černovicki, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. First of all, I want to read you the beginning of the letter that my comrade Solomon sent me. Comrade Solomatin, hello! Of course, after the election, I'm not very happy with you Communists. And I'm also not very happy with some communists, including Mr. Solomon. Every year I help the poor by about a million dollars. But because of the communists who fell in power, like Solomatina, and who voted with her, of course, I was tormented by all the non-Nahish organs, and that's why I got less profits to share with the poor. Actually, that's not my problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u129	Thank you. Only I don't understand Solomonine for you comrades, do I, sir? Because once a comrade, once a gentleman. The discussion is over, and I am voting on the draft decision of the Montenegrin People's Deputy on the inadmissibility of the draft law on the addition of amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code, registration number 5616-p-1. It's about inadmissibility. [[13:13:58]] For-57 They don't make a decision. I am voting on the adoption of the draft law on the introduction of amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code on the circulation of promissory notes in the first reading. Registration number for Bill 5616. Please vote. [[13:14:31]] For 234 Decision taken. There is a question of the draft law amending the Ukraine Act on Notariat. [[on the property rights of the persons over whom custody has been established]] Registration number 3435. Reports the initiative’s author, People’s Deputy of the Road. Prepare the Mussians.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u130	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! This law seems to be technical, but I just wanted to ask your attention because it is pragmatic enough and solves specific problems that arise in the functioning of care and care bodies, and above all in the prohibition of illegal, unfair, unethical alienation of property of persons under the care of care and care bodies. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the history of this bill is pragmatic enough. As early as 2003, I was asked by the Administration of Justice of the Darnicki district of Kiev to give an explanation. A letter from the Administration of Justice cited the fact that crimes had been committed, including forged assignments and stolen documents, in violation of the Code on Suphine’s ineffective citizen’s apartment. There was a deal on the mine part. Listen! - a one-bedroom apartment for furniture, using the fact that persons who are either underage or sick and under care could not be arrested for filing custody and custody. To clarify the situation, I went to the Ministry of Justice. I received an answer that the law did not provide for this. And after consulting his colleagues, he decided to introduce a short law to your consideration. In the explanatory note, in the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Committee's conclusion is that, firstly, it should be based, secondly, on procedural development. Please note that the Scientific and Experimental Authority considers it necessary to impose such prohibitions in the order prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers. I've agreed to this before, but I want to pay attention, including explaining that this law needs to be passed. You know, I'm talking to a lot of people, like you, but they're turning to a post-fact, when they're already looking for the fraudulent actions they've committed, and, above all, they're selling apartments, housing. Therefore, without waiting for adoption in the final reading of the Notaryate Law, I propose that these changes be made to the law in force in order to protect the rights of those who are not responsible for their actions and who are in custody. [[One that we've been working on for a long time, and you can't see it yet.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u131	Thank you, Alexander Victorovich. Please, from Musiak's committee, Victor Lavrentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, this bill does not conflict with the well - known position that guardians and caregivers have the right to manage property belonging to the caregivers or those who are under the care of them only with the permission of the authorities of care and care. Yes, there must always be permission. In this case, the point is that when the body gives the appropriate message to the notary or others. the authority of another, the authority of local self-government, the executioner, where there is a residential house, the apartment, etc., and so on, the immovable property about the prohibition of imposing, based on what the author proposes, that when it comes to the danger of fraud, which they knew was possible counterfeiting and so on. On the basis of these forged documents, they may come to a notary who does not know or do not know, they testify, they testify to this agreement on the alienation of property. That's exactly what this is about. And so, based on this understanding, from this bill, the committee is proposing to accept it in the first reading. But there are some interesting suggestions that should probably be taken into account by our Scientific and Experimental Authority. We're still working on his second reading, and today's first reading, there's an offer to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u133	Thank you, Victor Lavrentiovich. Shall we discuss it? Yes, please, Yavorowski, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u134	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues, welcome and immediately! Another way of thinking about it, I think there's simply no way of doing it. Over the past few years, this story, or the absence of this amendment to this law, has caused so many tragedies and living things, and not only living ones, but here they have been called. I could tell you before this list that it's not just about housing, let's say, the apartments where Grandma or Grandpa's alcoholic was drugged for a bottle of vodka and all that. Although that was the case, there was a great deal of it. And now, as head of the National Writer Association, I'm trying to do something about it. Imagine that the entire Yalta Building of Creativity was falsified because, in fact, there was no commission from the leadership of the National Association of Writers, an entire corps sold to the head of the Collospo. Can you imagine? And now there's, literally, a big complex and all that. Indeed, this little correction is followed by a great deal of the fate of our electorate, especially in the urban housing sector. Because of this amendment that this should be done only in the form of a report by the authorities regarding the protection of personal and property rights, it must be accepted. I understand that there is a certain conflict. Maybe someone would like to throw this rule into the new Notariat Act, but, believe me, every hour of delay with this bill, it's some new violation, it's some new tragedy, it's new bommes on Kiev Street, and it's not just Kiev and Kiev Stations. For this reason, I urge you, my fellow Members, to accept this amendment made by the People's Chamber of the Road. At least that's why it's his last bill as a representative of the President in our Parliament. And soon there will be a new representative, discussed by Schuffritch's candidate. who may be a representative of Yushchenka in Parliament. It could be. So let's vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u135	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. But the representative of the President is not entitled to the legislative initiative, he is entitled only to the national MP. Why don't we take it now? Please, Karmazin. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". I am convinced that Victor Yushchenko does not only mention persons such as Mr. Shufrich will never appoint, but also changes completely all those who have compromised themselves. Dear National Deputies! Here is an example of a one - room apartment. The project is intended to expand the grounds on which a government notary or an official of the executive committee of the village, village, city council can ban the alienation of the moving and immovable property of the individual. And this is a report by the body of care and care that protects the personal rights and interests of minors, children, and adults who are unable to exercise their rights and responsibilities on their own. And I want to ask, and on top of the Decade, 10, which is about $10 million, which was built at the expense of the state budget, and now sold by the family of former President Kuchma, sold to one of the relatives of our deputy for a penny, is that it's not protecting the rights of the same people. And here's the notary when he was selling this floor, and the Glycinia sanatorium, which is located in Libya, where the Yaltin Conference was held, or where were the daci and Khrushcheva, and Brezhnev, and everyone? Didn't they sell to Russian businessmen, and then they and the top government officials, who do all kinds of responsibilities in the Ministry today, don't go to the U.S. government? 22 acres [22 ha] of earth, so we need to take these changes very seriously. I'm from the first reading, but in addition to writing down, it's only against those who are under the care and care of those who have the right to own or who live in a residential house, an apartment, or other premises that are subject to an alienation ban. And I would also like to take a look at the proposal of a science-expert administration that suggested that we clarify that this is being reported in an orderly manner by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Change the situation, change the order of the government. Thus, we have every reason to accept it in the first reading, but it is necessary to make it possible for us to adopt it in two readings right away. And after the cases that I've informed the Attorney General of Ukraine, we need to do a background check and return the property to the state by violating criminal cases against those who wanted to steal it from the state for every president.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u137	Thank you. President-in-Office, this is the first one. And second, it's his property, he has the right to manage whatever he wants. Please, Mironenko, Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u138	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, respected compatriots, will support the committee's proposal to adopt the bill on first reading. There's a gentleman here, I'll introduce myself. Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Please don't interfere. Respected compatriots, the Company's faction will support the bill because it provides some social protection, to a small extent, it involves the protection of those under the care of. But let's note that even this law may not work, because we have an absolutely wrong state course, which unfortunately supports the currently noisy member of the faction "Our Ukraine", which prevents me from working both in Parliament and the other representative of the faction "Our Ukraine", which also, strangely enough, has begun to speak out and fight for the social protection of the population. When he did, I thought he remembered 1917. There's a communist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u139	Closer to the law, closer to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u140	I thought we did. And this is about the law, social protection in this case. We had the best protection in the world. And I thought, who is he? Then I find out, it's not just a capitalist, but the worst of the current capitalists, like private bankers, the middleman who's profiting, profiting, and all the intermediaries are now profiting wildly from industry, agriculture and so on. And this gentleman is mocking a communist, mocking 1917 and so on. Well, take care of yourself, please, have a conscience for a moment, please, please. And I'm asking the faction of Ukraine, well, you're more tolerant. When you act, I never interfere with you. And I'm speaking or another communist is speaking out, so why are you holding back the point of view? If you don't like the truth, that's another question. Don't yell at her, that's the truth she's trying to silence. Even so, people will sooner or later realize that no revolution has actually taken place, a coup d'état has taken place with the help of the United States of America, that the capitalist course will continue with the assistance of Yushchenko, who has established a banking policy that has destroyed the people, deprived the working capitalist economy and ensured unemployment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u141	Victor Andryovich, we're looking at changes to the Notaryate Act. Yes, please, Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u142	Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! I speak for myself because the decision of the committee is and is written there, it is recommended that this draft law be adopted on the basis of amendments to articles 73 and 74 of the Civil Code, which is valid. But I would like to draw your attention to one thing. The point is that this problem is solved. There is no such problem. And in article 71, listen carefully! This is precisely settled, it is said, according to article 71 of the Civil Code, there is no right without the permission of the authorities of care and care -- first, guardian or caregiver, to waive the property rights of the defendant. The other one. Issue written commitments on behalf of the subcontractor. Third, important. Contracts that are subject to notarial certification and/or state registration, including. Contracts for the division or exchange of housing, apartments, and so on. Contract other valuable property. I mean, there's a direct ban on doing what we're talking about here. But if we want to have an even more direct ban, let us accept these changes to the law. I understand it won't be cold or hot. Victor Andryovich, I know he won't mix it up, but he won't help. Those examples that we talked about being cheated outside of these prohibitions are criminal. And we're going to make these changes -- fraud can also be done. This position, by the way, of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, we have a letter, sitting by Deputy Minister Inn Ivanovn, they think.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u143	It's not sitting, it's sitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u144	Present, yes, thank you, Adam Ivanovich. So I don't think it's necessary to make any changes. You don't have to mess with our legislation, I'm saying it's up to you. You can take it, but you can't take it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u145	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich, but the committee's decision is signed by you. Please, Nina Ivanovna, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Indeed, this problem does not exist at the legislative level right now. I support the 100% position that Vasil Vasily Vasilovich is now making, that the valid Civil Code, in particular article 71 solves these problems, and prohibits guardianship without the authority of care and care to do a number of things, including alienating property that belongs to the guardian, that is, making these changes to the Notariat Act, I agree, respectfully, which the legal field will not solve, and that may be an additional guarantee, but not a definite one. The Civil Code has already settled this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u147	It was so clear to me that we should adopt an amendment to the law. Dear colleagues! What's your motive, let's vote. I'm voting on adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Notariat Act on Property Rights of the Caretakers. Registration number 3435. The Justice Department and the profile committee are asked to support it. Vote. [[13:33:12]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. There is a question of the draft law amending the Ukraine Act on Notariat. [[on the quota of notaries]] Bill 5488 registration number. Miriamsky, I can't see. Please, from the committee, Victor Lavrentiovich. Benefis today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! Unlike the previous bill amending the Notaryate Act, this bill also on amending the Notaryate Act is proposed to be rejected. Why? Because before the second reading, a new text of the Notaryate Act, a draft Notaryate Act, is being prepared, and there is this proposal to establish, foresee quotas for notaries in the notary district and depending on the number and all other quota criteria, all of this is provided for. We came out once because it's an emergency problem, so now we've voted, I think, right, and here we're proposing to reject this bill, because we're about to go to the Supreme Council in a second reading of the law, which will reflect all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we vote? No, it's not. The school wants to perform. Please, School. If others don't insist, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u150	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Well, I would like to say here that this law touches the quota of notaries, article 16. 1 The Ukrainian Notaryate Act. And here it's proposed by our colleague's legislation to limit quotas, i.e. the number of people serving the state notary of the notary district can't be more than 20,000 or less than 5,000, within the quota, the Ministry of Justice decides on a specific number of state notaries in each notary district. And the decline in the number of state notaries in the notary district is only possible when the notary activity of the state notary in this district is halted. Once again, I don't know, I think the legislator here wanted to increase the number of notaries and reduce the queues, but it's not obvious. And if that's what it is, it's very deep and hidden in this bill. Because, in fact, the one dealing with the state notaries knows that very many notary acts can only confirm the state notary. It's the prerogative of the state, and it's absolutely right. But the lines that are formed there, I don't think they're adequate to the services that are useful to me. So, in principle, to talk about that one notary office can serve 20,000 people, it's because the rules of the property market are constantly changing, it's definitely not enough. And here, I think, on the initiative, basically, the Ministry of Justice should be simplifying the service of the population. Because when they're recorded -- I think we've only got a turn right now just to the notary and there's ordinary people -- they're in a row in five days, they've got grandmothers who copy apartments on their kids, they've been in a hurry last year to a certain date, because it's been all over for some time. So I would like to point out that this bill does not prescribe a procedure for increasing the number of notaries. It only says that the quota should be limited, but between five and 20,000. So I don't see the need to support this bill in this respect. The only thing you could talk about is first reading, so that the committee would clearly take the initiative to reduce the number of queues in state notary offices. I think it's the Justice Department that should be interested. Because here private notaries, of course they can do a lot, and they can do even more than they can. But their competence is limited. There's never a queue there, because the cost of services, in principle, is enough to scare away any customer, and on the other hand, they only serve small transactions. That's why I'm saying it again. I'm going to the hall. Well, in principle, the question is correct, but this bill is completely empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u151	Please, who wants to protect the bill? Who's in? What, Yuri Anatolyovich? Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u152	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I, Adam Ivanovich, want to protect the Constitution, the law, and bring everything proposed in this project to clean water. To make it clear to the MPs. The MPs should understand that this law proposes to complement the new article 16-prim. "Notary quotas." Why? I'll tell you, it's extremely difficult to get a quota. We have to go to school, we have to wait in line for a long time and so forth. And that's the right thing to do, because then some passersby might break through. It's not that simple. And people who aren't prepared for this job. And that's the purpose of these changes. Paragraph 5 of this article introduces quotas that the Ministry of Justice does not extend to private notaries — that is, private notaries may be at least a million. And then there's the market between them who's going to be defined. Ladies and gentlemen, why the Ministry of Justice? What, then, is the regulatory role in society? This is exactly what happened to universities. We have Kuchma turned universities into passing houses. It's all called universities. The University of Polytechnology, the University of Forestry, the University of Education -- whatever it is called -- went completely away from the classic principles of defining these schools. And now it's the same thing, just do it in justice. It is now proposed that the number of state notaries be determined by the application of the regional administration of justice, taking into account the number of people living in this body, the number of notarial actions taken, the burden on each and the socio-economic state of the region. So if the region is depressed, it doesn't need notaries at all. Do you understand or not? How about we just keep this nonsense going? And don't we have to talk about that when we analyze it? And wasn't that supposed to be written in the conclusion of the Science and Experimental Authority? Unfortunately, it's not written. True, I criticize in this respect the Science and Experimental Authority and Matsuka, which has brought this law to a conclusion. And I would like to hear the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. And, Adam Ivanovich, I don't think it's right when we invite heads of ministries. We immediately broke the law that was to be passed by hearing Justice Minister Lavrinovich. We did not hear his conclusion on what he had reported. And the conclusion might be constructive. I would also like to hear from Inna Ivanovna, the deputy minister of justice, Emilianov, and to hear her opinion. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u153	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for the wise counsel, but no one is wavering, they sign. You're something. That's the first one. And the others. Mironenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u154	5 constituency, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction representing the Kerchen peninsula. Once again, the distinguished representative of “Our Ukraine” has made it very difficult to speak, despite the request. Respectable compatriots! Given that the representative of the committee had very clearly outlined the shortcomings of the bill, and given that the Communist faction had considered the issue and had the same position, I would like to say that the faction of the Compartia of Ukraine would support the Committee's proposal to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u155	Vote? Dear colleagues! There's an offer. With motive? Please, Gunner. Then Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u156	Deputies! I think Mr. Carmazin's proposal to make a point is quite correct. I'm willing to give her half my time. But I think there's going to be a full quota. The point is that the problem brought to the attention of the author of the bill exists, and in fact it increases the number of notaries. Now there's, for example, one district of 100,000 people, one notary office that's clearly not working, that's this quota, it's increasing, and on the other hand, it's not regulating the number of notary private offices, it's completely unrestrained by any criticism. Both are to be regulated, and this is not provided for by the draft Law, so the Committee’s proposal is entirely appropriate and must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u157	Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u158	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I very much want my opinion on this subject to be brought to the record. What do I mean? We've just had a conversation with the national MP from "Our Ukraine," John Ivancho, and I would like to remind you that we have adopted, as our voters say, just a very bad Notariat Law, we've put on such a show that today people are just groaning about all of this, because I would like our protocol to be mandatory, we have to hurry up with a new version of notariat. Today, more than ever, notary services are used by enormous demand, and this is normal. But once again, we have to liberalize this Law, it's for the benefit of today's notaries who are taking colossal expenses for any signed paper they've issued. Let's speed up the adoption of a new edition of the Notaryate Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u159	Thank you. At the insistence of Karmazin and others, I give the floor to the deputy minister, please, Inna Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u160	Thank you. The Honourable Adam Ivanovich, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice clearly does not support the bill, does not support it, I repeat. This is due to the fact that, at the legislative level, the issue of the number of government notaries cannot now be clearly addressed, depending on the demand that exists in a particular area, the use of notaries, the economic development of an area. As for the current comments on the queues that exist, they existed in the last year -- 2004 -- to state notaries -- it was related to what state notaries are witnessing, giving an inheritance certificate. And in view of the acquisition of the 13th article of the Income Tax Act of 1 January of this year, inheritance taxes were introduced and substantially increased. In this regard, people were seeking a 20-year-old testimony. This year will no longer exist in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u161	And thank you, but there doesn't seem to be a word in the jurisprudence like "categorical." I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on Notariat. [[on the quota of notaries]] [[Registration number 5488]] [[13:46:41]] For-25 We definitely did not uphold the law. The draft Law on the Personal Security of Judges of Ukraine is being complied with. [[Registration number 5232]] The author of the initiative, please, the Montenegrin Leonid Mikhailovich. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u162	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your word. Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios. Christian-liberal Party of Ukraine, Chernovetski. I want to say that the independent courts in Ukraine have an increasing role to play every day. They must protect our citizens, they must stand up against the Power, which has recently been criminal, well, not always, and the last few years have been criminal. They must act regardless of whether they are threatened or billed or whatever. My law does not say that judges must all immediately. Well, first of all, there are very few, and there are still a lot of laws that will make our courts independent. Because, for example, in countries where we speak democratically, the judge has decided that this decision is for both the President and the MP and anyone. But we know that especially in remote areas, and anywhere, right? They're threatened, they're intimidated. Not enough listening to them has created a million problems for them to take them under their wing to resolve the issues for the gangs that have been established in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and elsewhere. But they're still threatened by banal thugs, and we're not getting enough of them, because their role is solid M.V.A. and B.S.A., that's all. I want to tell you that they need weapons, and now, if a man is peaceful, he doesn't want to use them, it's his business, he's gonna take those weapons, he's not gonna take them, I'm not talking about what they need right now. Vote! Stand by the judges! Just express your attitude towards the judicial system of Ukraine. Because we support them. He decided, one of the judges of the City Court, to bring the highest level of criminal responsibility. We didn't fire him, did we? But it's now he's in a situation where we've been able to make this decision, because, call it a revolution, a coup, but we've pulled out, as it were, MPs from many, and, including, and conquered, who were thought to have become free people, they can now also tell the truth. That's why I think the judges need to be supported in every direction, even a rifle, just protect a free man, a pensioner, a communist, a socialist, anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u163	Shall we vote? Yes, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u164	Sergei Alexiyuk, Ukrainian People’s Party, Victor Yushchenka’s Block The Legislature Committee on Law Enforcement considered the bill tabled by National MP Leonid Czernovecki and examined the bill, and I think it is necessary to make a few comments. Today, the issue of the protection of judges, including the issue of short - standing firearms, has been regulated by legislation. Such protection is provided in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Workers of the Courts and Law Enforcement Authorities, the Ukrainian President's decree on additional measures to ensure the proper functioning of the judiciary and the functioning of the courts. From 15. In 091999, number 1564 and the order for the purchase, storage and use of firearms, ammunition, and special means for the individual protection of court officials and law enforcement agencies. As well as those who participate in criminal proceedings approved by the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs of 24.07.96, number 523 and registered by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on 27.09. 96, number 556. It should be noted that the project is contrary to the current criminal administrative legislation, which contains technical and legal flaws that make it impossible to adopt it. Therefore, according to the Legislative Committee on Law Enforcement, it is recommended that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u165	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, can we vote? Oh, no? Yavorowski, let him say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u166	I mentioned something beautiful, not an apherist, but a warlord general of the late Swan, two of his aphorisms. The first says: “General Democrat, it’s the same thing as Jewish deer guide.” And his second aphorism. “The last one laughs at the first one.” So this has a direct bearing on this bill. I respect my colleague, I share with him sometimes, but I can't understand what's going on with us yesterday. It's not me, it's me, something's playing without me! It's an inauguration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u167	Rehearsal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u168	It's not a funeral march after the judges were shot, I understand. Because of this, indeed, society is already in some way regulated by the law that we do. Look, we had a militia, an armed national unit, which I don't think is a people's team at all today, but it's already called a minister, that it's an armed force to protect the power of an existing one. Well, now let's see the guns for the judges. What, some statistics say that we have judges who are literally exterminating somewhere or something? Maybe if there was one incident, that's not the reason. And then it's forbidden to use firearms on women with obvious signs of pregnancy. Leona, darling, what if this is the night? Is she pregnant or is she pregnant? Well, if you'll excuse me! Well, it's some kind of thing, absolutely. Well, how can you accept these things? That's why I'm just explicitly opposed to, well, there's actually some pearls here about the injury or death that happened as a result of the application. The judge is obliged to report. I mean, I've shot, I've killed, and now it's his job to tell the superiors. I just don't want to, out of respect for my colleague, he probably did this bill, you see, his assistants were preparing it for him. I mean, you know what else are the pearls? That if he retires, he has the right to carry more weapons. And as a hunter, go hunting with her. Well, I think it's just a creative big failure of Chernevski. We put a cross on it, and we can't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u169	Don't give him another word. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u170	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! You and I have been looking at the weapons bill. We did not accept it, we failed to fulfill our duty to society to protect each member of society. I want to say that Leonid Mikhailovich Černovetsksky's bill makes sense in the sense that there is a law, a special law called "State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement." Leonid Mikhailovich, that's where you have to make your proposals. Some of them will simply fall away, the need for them, because there is no need for such a law. You know, I'm a proponent of codifying and systematizing legislation so that we don't abuse our people, that they need more than three and a half thousand laws to know, read and operate on them all the time. Thus, it will also be a matter of the public prosecutor’s office, the State Forest Guard, the fishing guards, the customs authorities, the State Border Service, the law enforcement agencies, and their close relatives. But what's the problem is that there is a problem when the judge resigns, and it can come out at this very time, the criminal he sentenced to be 10 for 20 years and deal with him, and by this time the judge will be old and unable to give himself up, to protect himself physically, don't we know what these problems might be? There are still women judges, and they need them, and so are any other women, not just women. Therefore, it is necessary to protect the judge. However, according to the Law on the State Protection of Court Workers and Law Enforcement Authorities, article 13 states that the reason for special measures to ensure the safety of the court’s employee and his immediate relatives, including the issuing of arms, is the employee’s statement, the request of the head of the relevant public authority, the receipt of operational and other information on the existence of a threat to life, health, housing, and property of persons under protection. That's why there was also the President's decree of 1999 "On additional measures to ensure that the courts are properly functioning and functioning." So I think we need to make some changes, and I would like to propose to my colleague Czernovecki in this Law on the State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement - here is where we have to make these changes. And I don't think you have to adopt a separate law to do that, but the idea is very right, and the idea just needs to be applied correctly. And, honourable national MPs, the court needs protection, just as it needs protection from the people seeking their protection in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u171	Yes, the people need protection from the courts -- you said it right. Please, Mironenko. Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u172	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. Respectable national MPs, respected compatriots, respected Adam Ivanovich! The Company of Ukraine supports the proposal of a sectional committee to reject the bill, which seems to protect the personal security of judges for many reasons, including those referred to by previous speakers. I fully agree with my distinguished colleague Yavorivsky, who will shoot first, and the practice of the United States of America shows that a large number of weapons have not led to security but have made human security worse. Well, this is where the same judge gets his gun taken, his gun killed, so it doesn't smell like security, but let's just ask the question, why did a bill come up with a Christian, bankers against whom criminal cases were brought? How can you imagine that? Like some sort of bribe to the judges? It doesn't look like it. How does care really work? It's not like that. I personally don't understand it, and I'm just struck by the obsession of a respected banker who is constantly, very stable in his arms laws. What kind of obsession is that? He then introduces a bill for private individuals to be produced and sold! - produced and sold weapons, promised to give each deputy free of charge on the gun. Yes. And he calls himself a Christian. But with the same gun, these guns will kill people! Is it not understandable for a Christian? What are these bills for? Well, everyone understands, even the naive, for the sake of doing another huge business in one area. Not many people seem to be making such bills, they don't have very few banks, they don't have very few businesses. There is still a huge business to be created with weapons by killing people. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Such bills cannot be supported in any way, and I ask, the well-respected author of this bill, but I do not call my name, but it is clear to everyone who, so I ask, does not introduce such bills, because it is understandable even to the naive, it is only a course, such as a very wicked course and it is your business, but do not show that direction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the legislative body, do not be oligarchic precisely, lobbyist in order to express your own interests through a parliamentary mandate. Yes, you're defending yourself through a parliamentary mandate, a parliamentary integrity. This is the right of you and your constituents to vote for you. But don't make such dangerous laws for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u173	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u174	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The issues already dealt with in detail in the bill have been covered by the existing legal acts, including the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement, the President's decree of December 1999 on additional measures to ensure the proper functioning of the courts and the functioning of the courts, the provisions on the order of purchase, issuance, calculation, storage and use of firearms, including by persons involved in criminal proceedings, approved by the Ministry of Justice since July 1996, the Ordinance on the Procedure for the Manufacture, Procurement, Clothing, Transport and Use of Fire and Other Weapons of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine since August 1998. In general, therefore, the problem of ensuring the safety of judges creates, not an imperfect regulatory framework, but a lack of enforcement or improper enforcement of valid legislative acts. In addition, the proposed bill is conceptually different from just one innovation, which provides that judges who retire from retirement will have the right to purchase weapons that they have been given in connection with the performance of their duties and their ammunition at a balanced cost. So this is going to be a gift. Here's all the money in this bill. And in general, pending the adoption of the Ukrainian Arms Act, it is premature to establish standards at the legislative level that will give individual categories of citizens the right to acquire short-term, firearms. And what I would like to say is that, in some circumstances, a judge is required to detain wrongdoers, or under certain circumstances, a judge with a naked firearm should go to a sitting room and question the legality of a person’s detention. Since such questions are often settled in small judicial offices, the project actually suggests that the judge be given the right to use weapons for anyone who takes two or three steps to his desk. So let's say that with you, we've come to the point that everyone is listening. Everyone has their own Major Melnichenko, let's still create armed forces and give weapons to each other and shoot each other. Or that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u175	I'm continuing the session until the finalization of the question, please, one minute, Chernewicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u176	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The distinguished people's deputies, the respected ones who listen to us, were funny, of course, my colleague spoke: and what a mantile woman would look like, and a pregnant woman as he would look at her. That's very funny. Not just one, since 917, if the king shot 816 people, yes, Lenin has already shot millions, along with Stalin. And they armed all the villains they could in Soviet times. Now that you're not under, many, I can see Roman's gone, my friend, he promised me to vote. What you have in your head is that weapons are so special and you have to use them, but of course they're from the area of communism, but it's understandable that in any faction, God is with you. Vote anything, but it's you who's protesting freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-19-m0.u177	Yes, the cook would have had a replica, but. I'll bet. Question completed. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the Personal Security of Judges of Ukraine. [[Bill number 5232]] Leonid Mikhailovich, don't break the Constitution. [[14:06:12]] For-47 Including the votes of 18 Chernewsky gave. The law is rejected. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
