ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:06]] They registered in the 411 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Sandler Dmitry Volodymyrovic as part of the Party of the Regions' MPs, the “Regions of Ukraine”. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Kelestin Valerija Vasilovic from the Ukrainian People's Party. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikoko Mihajlović, as part of the MP's Party of Regions, “Regions of Ukraine”. I now ask for information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on December 1, 2005. 30 questions on the agenda were discussed, 9 laws and 8 regulations were adopted, 2 bills were adopted on a basis, 1 bill was designed to be drafted, 1 bill and 1 draft regulation were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, four laws have been passed in a new edition, the President's veto has been overrun by two laws, and one law has been repealed. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulation gives us 30 minutes to make parliamentary inquiries, to make proposals. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, allow me to announce the questions that have come from the National Deputies. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Jurya CARMAZINA to the President of Ukraine for the prevention of the threat of national security in the form of a substantial weakening of the defence and readiness of the Armed Forces as a result of the liquidation of the Odessa Institute of Land Forces, a test of the validity of the Cabinet of Ministers' decree of May 26, 2005. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:22]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Mr. Alexander PECLUCHEN to the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister. You can't go to the Prime Minister. Alexander Pecklusenka to the President of Ukraine on the reconstruction and restoration of the educational process in the Chubarov Public Education School of the Pologov Region of Zaporozhye. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:01]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Teams of deputies to the President of Ukraine for violating the rules of the material and procedural laws of the Luhansk District Council. [[KYZELOV, CCHYTIZVILI, KYRIČENKO]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:39]] For-78 Request not supported. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs, on non-execution of the UkrNaft Open Shareholder Society, under the terms of the joint venture agreement. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the crisis situation in housing in the town of Poznanka Kirovograd. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the housing of a citizen of Kuchapska, who is one who raises a minor son — a disabled person and lives in an uninhabitable room. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister on the inclusion of the unallocated remainder of the subsidy in Cabinet Order No. 639. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister on the situation of the allocation of funds provided for by the 2005 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and Cabinet of Ministers Order No.687 of 3 August 2005 for the gasification of villages in the Preyaslav-Hmeljna region of the Kyiv region. Michael BAUERA to the Prime Minister for the insufficient allocation of subsidies for the construction of gas pipelines and the gasification of the population of the Novoseltsky region of the Cherniewice region. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the provision of hearing aids for a disabled child, a village of Gornostivka in the Herson region. Mr Vladimir PETRENK to the Prime Minister for the financing of the work after the completion of the gasification of the villages of the Trieste and the Great Pisarov region of the Suma region. Anatoly of KZŁOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the payment of current municipal payments on the basis of citizens’ lost money savings. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the recognition of diplomas on the education of citizens who graduated from the State educational institutions of the Transnistrian Republic of Moldova. Anatoly of Korczynski to the Prime Minister concerning the violation of the rights of former civil servant Vlasov in relation to the recalculation of his pension. Oleg PETROVA to the Prime Minister for the insufficient preparation of documents on the appointment of Lipkowa Head of State in the Podilski district of Kiev. RAISES OF THE BENEFITARY TO THE Prime Minister for the 2006 budget forecast for the 2006 budget for the implementation of capital repairs, reconstruction as well as the renewal of the medical base and equipment of specialised anti-tuberculosis sanatoriums. MIKOY JANKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the purpose of addressing voters about the activities of the National Commission for the Regulation of Electricity. Michael BAUERA to the Prime Minister about the abuses in the transfer of the military city club No. 1 to the city of Chernivts. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister for the purpose of allocating funds for the equipment of an autonomous boiler for the Children's School No.3 “Verse” in the village of the Wonders of the Žitomir Region. A group of deputies to the Prime Minister on the reasons for the dismissal of Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Grishenko. [[QUIET, KEY, CHILD]] Victor DRACHEVSKI to the Prime Minister on the appeal of 560 members of the Ukrainian Association “SEVER” to violate the guarantees regarding the provision of social protection for pensioners who worked under the conditions of the Last North. John YVANCHO to the Prime Minister for the award of a subsidy for disaster relief in the Zakarpatsk region. Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the legality of receiving compensation for improving housing conditions by the head of the Žitomir district government administration of Žebrovski. [[NICKY, KEY, MASUREN]] Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister on the violation of the memorandum of understanding between power and opposition, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Anton KISSE to the Prime Minister for Taxation of State Agricultural Enterprises of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Prime Minister on the critical situation that has arisen in the Ostróskie region of the Plain region in connection with the suspension of funding for social sites located in the 30km area around the Hmelnicka AES. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Prime Minister on the threat of the environmental disaster in the Hmělnice region due to the unsatisfactory state of nuclear fuel storage and banning the use of chemical plant protection products. Valery BORZOVA to the Prime Minister on the threat of environmental security in the Chernigiv region, which was created as a result of the inadequate sanitary and epidemiological state of the Right River inflow. Alexander KARENKA to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the gas pipeline between the villages of Lakerne – Little Wilshanka Bilocerkow district of Kyiv region. Ms. Alexander Kiselova to the Prime Minister on State support for the work of the World Chess Federation and the maintenance of headquarters in the cities of Lugansk and Kiev. Tamara PROSCURATO to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of a secondary school in the village of Vílok Vygradiv district of Zakarpatsk. Gregory SURKISA to the Prime Minister for the construction of the library in the village of Borova, District of Ravenna. Stepan HMARA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice for the Rehabilitation of Members of the “Ukraine Without Couchma” Action, recognized by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as being likened to political prisoners. Vladimir CIBULKA to the Prime Minister for the acquisition of fuel-oil materials by the State-owned company Antonov. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Prime Minister regarding the laudable attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers towards strengthening the island of Kos Tuzla and the lack of requirements for the Russian Federation to compensate for the environmental damage caused by the construction of the Russian dam. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Prime Minister for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers to comply with the rules laid down by the law on the review of the amount of payments that apply to the minimum wage. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the Prime Minister for the reconstruction of the Palace of Culture of the city of South Komunarsk, Donetsk. Mr. Alexander Tkalenka and Mr. Dawimuki to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Head of the Holding Foundation, regarding the improper treatment of State property in the use of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. Alexander MOROZA to the Prime Minister for the return of Nietzlava to the farm for the seed. John BOCOGO to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Head of the DPA, the Head of the Board of Directors on the activities of the Blackwater Channel utility and the prevention of damage to the budget of the city of Chernigov. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the creation of the Science Centre and the Innovation Fund of the Mining and Metallurgical Complex. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the abuse of the Majak-Majak SPC in the Velikobogachan region of Poltav region. Paul SILCHANA to the Prime Minister on the situation surrounding the society with limited responsibility for the “Poltavian market”. MICHELLA TO THE Prime Minister for setting the minimum wage in 2006 is not below the minimum wage for working persons. Sergia Soboljeva and Vladimir FILENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Kyiv City Head for the submission of the President of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers on the suspension of the powers of the Head of the Chevchenkov District Administration of Haritonczuk and the Deputy Head of the Kiev City Administration of Dankevich for their violation of the Constitution, the laws “On Local Government Administrations”, “On the fight against corruption” and the creation of protocols on the commission of corruption. Deputies' groups to the Prime Minister for the provision of funds for the reconfiguration of the departmental hospital in the village of Novi Mlin in the region of Chernigiv. [[LAPIN, VERNIDOUBOV, COMAR]] The Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prosecutor General, on the violation of the requirements of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. [[CARENKO, CHOICE]] Vladimir BOYKA and Sergey MATVIENKOVA to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Transport and the link between the failure to respond to the request for illegal acceptance by the Ministry of Transport and the linkage of the order “To amend certain legal acts of the Ministry of Transport”, which significantly exacerbates the status of the manufacturers – the shipping companies and excludes any responsibility of the University for the preservation of cargo. [[recipients]] Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister for the protection of Ukraine's national interests in the issue of its obligations to the countries involved in the construction of the Crevice Mining and Enriching Combination of Oxedated ores. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister for the lack of funding for the gasification objects provided for in Cabinet Order No. 687 of 3 August 2005 MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of work on the air of the Independent Pavlovgrad Television. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Prime Minister for full-scale financing of the reconstruction of army barracks in Sarna under the therapeutic corps of the central district hospital, and the reconstruction of the surgical corps of the central district hospital of Kostopil Rivensk. Leonida Kadenjuka to the Prime Minister for the completion of the first line of the construction of the Dniestrów Hydro-accumulation Power Station of Novodnystrovsk Černovetskie region. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister on the prohibition of rising prices for residential services in excess of the rate of real income. [[tariffs]] Mr. Paul MUTCHANA to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the school in the village of Vozilov Buchický district of Ternopil. Mr Mikoli NOSENKA to the Prime Minister for not receiving compensation for the complex agricultural technique of the NizhinSilMash factory. Gregory SURKISA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the work of the sanatorium in the village of Žurawici in the Voline region. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Prime Minister for the completion of the gasification of the village of Pecenya Zoločov district of Lviv. Ivana TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister for the repair of the water supply network of the town of Jarmolinki and the completion of the construction of the main gas pipeline. Anatolia GREZYEVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister regarding the construction in the town of Inkermani of the Balaklav district of Sevastopol, a site for the reception of gas-discharged railway tanks. Eugene Kirilchuk to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko on the subject of gravity, delaying the granting of a car on the extended condition of the disabled person of war and group, resident of the city of Kamen-Kashir Volin district. Mr Vladimir Lještenka to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko on the Government's steps towards the establishment of a decent pension scheme for disabled liquidators of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. Peter SIMONENKA to the Attorney General on the improper treatment of the former Attorney General, Piscoun, of the parliamentary address and the facts set forth therein. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney General for delays in signing decisions on property and land use approved by the City Council of Kiev. Ally ALEKSANDROVSKI to the Attorney General on the protection of the rights of the working group of Poltavčanka. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for the misconduct of law enforcement officials of the Lenin District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd area. Oleg BILORUSA and Helen BONDARENKO to the Attorney General, Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship on a conflict situation that has arisen between entrepreneurs and the directorate of the Kiev District Market. MIKOLI POROVSKI to the Attorney General on the delay in the investigation of criminal cases committed against officials of the Open Shareholders Association OblEnergo. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Attorney General for the criminal activity of members of the Police Department of the Lipovodolin district of Sumska District, committed against the head of the Lipovodolin village center of the People’s Movement of Ukraine Ruchenka. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney-General for refusing to pay dividends for 2004 to the Open Association of Ukrnafta shareholders in the city of Ochtirka Sumska District. Igora SHAROVA to the Attorney General for the immediate conduct of an impartial and objective investigation into the excess of authority and official powers by officials of the Department of Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd area during the baseless illegal arrest and beating of the resident of the city of Kirovgrad Pavluk and the attracting of officials responsible for the commission of this crime and the falsification of the material of the case to criminal responsibility. The Panels of Deputies to the Attorney General, Head of the Board of Directors for Unresponsibly Responding, provide a formal write-off on the request for the examination of the facts of the laundering of dirty funds by Transalpine in Munich, which is the intermediary between the KMK recipients and the Odessa Portal Plant, to which the National Deputy Rudzkowski has a bearing. [[THE KEY, THE DEEP, THE KING]] Ally ALEKSANDROWSKI to the Attorney General for the destruction and looting of the production power and abuse of the head of the government of the Open Shareholder Association “First August” of the region of the Kharkiv district of Zabara. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General, Head of the Cherka District Public Administration, on the liquidation of the debt on payment of salaries in June – November to employees of the community company Smilacomuntéplenergo, Smila. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Attorney - General, Head of the Holding Foundation, for the enforcement of the requirements of legislation in the process of converting the bird complex into an open stock company and the legality of the use of land to its knowledge. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General for the theft of the property of the company “MAZ Division Service” of the village of Letin Vinicke Region and for the failure of the newly appointed factory management to perform its duties. Ms. Alexander Kiselova to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for refusing to take responsibility for officials of the Luhansk City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Luhansk region, whose actions show signs of corruption and abuse of office. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, on the failure of the leadership of the Odessaza Open Shareholder Society to execute a court decision regarding the connection to the gas highway and the opening of a personal account for the use of natural gas to the inhabitants of the house. WOLDODIMARY ZAJIJA to the Attorney-General on the violation of the requirements of legislation by officials of the Colombian City Council of the Ivano-Frankov Region during the sale at the low cost of indoor market premises. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General on the abuse of office, failure to execute a court decision by the Dorobycan City Head and the management of the city of Vikonka. Apparently Drodobic. I'm asking the secretariat to check it out, please. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General on the violation of the constitutional and legal rights of the group II disabled, a resident of the city of Winnice, who suffered the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. valentine ZUBOVA to the Attorney General regarding the situation surrounding the Zaporezian Titanium Magnesium. Anatolia MOCROUSOVA to the Attorney General concerning the ruling of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev on November 18, 2005. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, Head of the High Court of Commerce, Head of the Court of Appeal for failure to respond to requests by the national deputies regarding violations of the law by the judge of the Kyiv Kovtun Regional Court. Istwana HYDOSH to the Attorney General on the protection of the property rights of the private shareholder company “Victoria” of the town of Beregovo Zakarta and the social rights of its shareholders and employees. A group of deputies to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of citizens and the illegal actions of investigators of the Directorate of BSS in the Montenegrin Region. [[ANTEMUKE, BRONNIK, TURMAN, AND OTHER]] Anatolya MOROZA to the Attorney General on the legality of the actions of the judge of the local Tokmak court, Igor Ošatý, in the decision of the court. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General, the Minister of Industrial Policy, on the abuse of office and other criminal activities by senior officials of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, which has led to significant damage to the interests of the State. ANNATOLY RACHANSIAH to the Attorney General on dissatisfaction with the answer to a question regarding violations of the law by officials when considering parliamentary appeals and questions. Mr. JOURNEY CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Head of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting on the involvement of the Dnipropetrov Regional State Department of the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine with the aim of creating advantages in pre-election agitation for individual political parties and blocs VADIM MISSURY to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on bringing to justice those responsible for the organization of the city's prostitution network. Kiev VICTOR MIRONENKA to the Attorney General for the cessation of unconstitutional activities in the United States, associated with the U.S. Major Mikli Melnichenko and others who violate the Constitution, the laws, the presumption of innocence, without trial, have declared criminals to influence the outcome of the elections, to prevent the creation of a parliamentary majority of the government from favouring the creation of Ukraine’s only economic space, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Attorney General for the unlawful criminal prosecution of a citizen of Makarenko, the former first deputy head of the RayDerge Administration of the Kamyan-Dniprov district of Zaporez. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General on the lengthening of criminal proceedings against numerous violations by former officials of the Ukrainian School of Public Education “Herson College” and on the violation of the principle of the irreparability of punishment for their crimes, these persons, due to the inaction of law enforcement agencies. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the status of the investigation into the circumstances of the murder of Professor Lviv National University of Frank Viacheslav Bondar. Mr. Leonida Mordovtov to the Attorney General on the illegal issuance of diplomas from the Interregional Academy of Personnel Management. MICHELLA’S U.S. Attorney - General’s Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd area is responsible for the delay in investigating a criminal case involving state funds. Aleksandra MASSENKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the case before the Darnicki District Court concerning the resident of the city of the Redwater region of Poltava. Victor MIRONENKA to the Attorney-General on the legality of the criminal case against Major Mikli Melnichenko, who fled from Ukraine to the NATO base and violated Ukraine's legislation, the verification of Melnichenko's involvement in a special operation of US services aimed at disengaging individuals from power in Ukraine who demonstrate their readiness to create Ukraine's only economic space, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia. Anatolia Rachánské to the Attorney General, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Head of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on repeated appeals regarding the illegal actions of the Gurzuf Village Council and the absence of action. Oleg PETROVA to the head of the Secretary of the Ukrainian President’s Office regarding the failure to respond to a request for a delay in the appointment of Lipkovsky as Head of State in the district of Kiev. Jury CARMAZINA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Prime Minister, Minister of Transport and Communications, Attorney-General for the failure of representatives of the Government and the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine to carry out urgent measures to restore Ukraine's activities since 15 April 2005, to analyse the financial and economic activities of the State Shipbuilding Company, the Black Sea Shipping Company, to take immediate action to restore its activities, to stabilise its financial and economic situation, to prevent further deprivation of assets and bankruptcy. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science for Unsatisfactory Status of Debt to Educators under Article 57 of the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2005. Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the involvement of extremist parties : Progressive Socialist Vitrenko, “Syuzu” Kostusev, “State” Vasiliev, “Brotherhood” of the Korchin and Orthodox Brotherhood of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarch until the burning of the chapel on the site of the construction of the Greek-Catholic Temple of Christ in Kiev. Kirila POLIČUKA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the reorganization and reduction of jobs in the Zguriv district post office in the Kyiv region. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the improper investigation by investigators of the district and district authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kyiv area of traffic accidents. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the minister of foreign affairs in order to promote the rights and obligations of Ukrainian citizens outside the country. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Minister of Health, Head of Health of the Johno-Frankow District Administration, for the allocation of funds for the treatment of half-orphan children with cerebral palsy. TO THE Minister of Environmental Protection for the Protection of the Rights of a Foreign Investor. Larissa VAZAČANKO to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Minister of Education and Science for the Legality of the Act of Officials of the Frankiv District Education Department of Lvová, on his release from office as Director of the Wesselka Children's Centre. MICHAEL SETINIE to the Ministry of Health for violating the constitutional rights of citizens to receive timely and qualified medical care as a result of the activities of the Narcotics Control Board. Mr. Stephen DAVIMIKI to the Minister of Defense on the status of financing the development of the Armed Forces. VOJUŠA to the Ministry of Health regarding the purchase of ambulances for the Jagofarova hospital hospital in Hersson. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Education and Science on the payment of the debt on the salary of the widow of the deceased teacher. Ms Vladimir JENKA to the Minister of Justice on the execution of the decision to raise funds for the benefit of the resident of the village of Chapaievka of the Zolotani district of the Cherkas region Vassil BARTKIV to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the award of a school bus to the Bolykhiv City Education Department. Mr. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister of Justice on the gravity of the court’s decision. MICHELLE NOCHENKA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy for Procrastination with State support for agro-industrial enterprises operating under particularly difficult climate conditions in the Mid-Bud district of Sumsk. Mr. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Minister of Justice, Attorney General, on the legality of the actions of officials of the National Executive Service of the Nahimov District Department of Justice of Sevastopol in connection with the confiscation of the residence. FIXA to the Ministry of Family and Sports on the actions of officials of the family and young Sevastopol City Administration, which led to the destruction of the Titan Sports Club and the denial of the rights of residents of Sevastopol and exercise and sports. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Ministry of Health regarding the illegal sale of a district hospital in the village of Sinevir in the district of Zacarpathia. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Minister of Economics regarding the conversion of people with renal insufficiency to Zaporozhye. Istwana HYDOŠA to the Minister of Finance for the Financing of Subsidies in 72 constituencies in the Zakartat region. Oleg BESPALOVA to the Ministry of Defence, Head of the National Coordination Centre for the Adaptation of Soldiers Released or Retired, and conversions of former military objects to conduct the conversion of a military town in the city of Fastov. Vassila NADRAVIA to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of medical equipment to Luhansk City Hospital No.12. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Ministry of Finance regarding the gasification of the village of Miropil in the region of the Suma region. Mr. Vladimir CIBULKO to the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Prosecutor of the city of Lviv for the violation of legislation by the Lviv City Council. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the provision of legal and other assistance to the family of the resident of the city of Dolina, who died in Prague. Ms. Valeria CONOVALKA to the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, on the acquisition of gamma knife for the Institute of Neurosurgery of the Name of the Romanodan Academy of Medical Sciences. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Minister of Education and Science on the abuse of office as Director of the Kosovo-Polish Rakhiv School of Education of the Zakarpat region. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Head of the Donetsk district administration for the return of the debt on wages to the workers of the Oceretin plant of construction materials in the Yasinautia district. JANUARY to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the establishment of a telephone for residents of the second branch of the village of Uržajne. Olga HINZBURG and Volodymira LECHENKA to the Heads of the Chernigian District Administration and Regional Council for the purpose of transferring the forest arrays of the “AgroLis” system to the territory of the Korinsky and Sosnic regions, a private structure. Larissa VACHENCO to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on the protection of constitutional rights and the solution to the problem of illegal residence of a citizen. To the Head of the National Television and Radio Board, Vladimir GOSHOVSKO is responsible for overseeing the compliance of television companies with the requirements of legislation. Anatoly of the Writer’s Office to the Acting Head of the Branch State Administration, the Bergian City Head, regarding violations of the Law “On Turning Citizens” by the executive committee of the Berdian City Council in its consideration of letters and petitions. Valery BORZOVA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the violation of the constitutional and legal rights of residents of hostel No. 5 on the street of Dublin in Kiev. VOJUŠA is acting as Head of the Branch State Administration for the violation of the rights of workers in rural cultural, educational, and health institutions in the Kuybishev district of Zaporez Region in the allocation of land for the conduct of private agriculture. TO THE Head of the Lviv District State Administration, responsible for the responsibility of the Lviv City Head to allocate funds for the free feeding of primary schoolchildren. Leonidas KRAVČUKA and Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Attorney-General, the head of the Lviv District State Administration on illegal acts of authority against the children of the Mokchan family, violations of their property rights to housing, resulting in the eviction of children into the street. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the head of the Cherkas Observatories for the violation of the rights of residents of Korsun-Shevchenkovsky to use land near the Rose River. Alexander GOLUBA to the head of the Cerkas District State Administration for the provision of water to the city of Smila Cherkaske district with quality drinking water. Group of Deputies to the Head of the Dnipropetrov Observatories on violations of housing law and housing rights of residents of Dnipropetrovsk. [[LIKE, GRANOVSKI, SURMA]] Teams of deputies to the Head of the State Road Service to include the streets of Artemyowsk in a list of public - budgeted objects. [[VERNIDOUBOV, MATHWICHUK, VASILEV]] Igor ŠURMI to the head of the HeadCRO to verify the use of budget funds by the Lviv City Council in connection with the allocation of 700,000 bracelets for the establishment of an electronic voting system “The Council”, which is practically not used by the deputies of the country. To the prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov region regarding the violation of the constitutional rights of a citizen. JANUARY to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the problems of the Stone Massion, located in the territory of the Kyiv district of Simferopol. Petra TLOČKA to the head of the Suma District State Administration for gross violations of the Cultural Heritage Act. TO THE Head of the Board, Vladimir JAVORIYA, on the identification of manufacturers and manufacturers of radiation equipment specially designed to exert psychotropic influence with a view to manipulating the consciousness of citizens, which is particularly dangerous during the electoral campaign. Alexander TKALENKA to the head of the Herson State Administration for compensation for the construction of a gas pipeline to the village of Pravi Solonci in the region of Tsurupina. VADIM MISSURA to the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Affairs on upholding socio-ethical moral standards and bringing the guilty to justice. Jury KRIVORCHKA to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the legality of the development of project documentation for the removal of land under the construction of a multi-story building on Kudrijavska Street and the illegal redistribution of adjuvant areas. Mikoli CATERINCHUKA to the Head of the Government of the Open Shareholder Society “Kretelekom” on the construction of the digital ATS in the village of Salnica Hmilnicka district of Winnicka district. John BOKHO to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Board of Auditors on the appointment of the head of the Court of Appeal in the Chernigian region. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the gross violation of Ukrainian law in the creation of the ZAT “Severonational Union of Nitrodes” and the use of measures aimed at the return of illegally transferred property to state property. Maria MARKUSH and Volodymira MOJSIK to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the renewal of the rights of the labour force of the Sixth Kiev Automated Factory and the violation of a criminal case for a lack of funds of 500 grand. The sum of money and commodity values per million dollars. Thus, honourable colleagues have made 157 parliamentary inquiries. By factions: Ukrainian communists 28, "Ukraine regions" 13, "Our Ukraine" 7, "Our Ukraine" 8, "Butt-6", "SPU-13", "Ukrainian People's Party" 11, "SDPU" 31, "People's House" 7, "Trust in the People" 7, "Reforms and Order" 4, "One Ukraine"-3, "The People's Movement 8", "Noffractional 10. Let's move on to the speeches of the national MPs with statements, reports, information. Sergey Slightly, the faction of our Ukraine, please, your performance. Get ready for Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u2	Sergey Slabenko, faction of our Ukraine. Declaration by the parliamentary faction of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" in connection with the start of the elections in 2006. The People's Union of Ukraine faction in the Supreme Council believes that on November 26, 2005, a truly historic electoral campaign was launched -- the first elections on essentially proportionate principles to promote the political structure of Ukrainian society and the formation of the Ukrainian political nation. In addition, these are the first fully democratic elections in Ukraine, where there will be no counterfeiting, no administrative resources, no force on the electorate. Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko urged all political forces to support his initiatives in holding fair elections in 2006. This is stated in the presidential statement to the Supreme Council and local self - government authorities in connection with the start of an electoral campaign with elections to councils of all levels. The parliamentary faction “Our Ukraine” supports the initiative of the honorary head of its party and calls on all political forces to make every effort to ensure that the elections take place under the auspices of an honest competition. We call on all parties and blocs to avoid the shameful, society-condemned practice of the so-called "black pierra" – the voice accusations and slanders, the use of illegal methods of agitation. We hope that the 2006 parliamentary elections will be a step towards further consolidation of democratic forces, to form Ukraine as a civilized state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u3	Thank you. Mikola Nosenko, the Communist faction, your performance. Prepare Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u4	Mikola Nosenko, Communist Party faction, Chernigovishte Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! In my speech, I would like to touch on the very unattractive theme of political morality in our society for many political parties. I often think about the root cause of the crisis, in which almost 15 years of independence has left our society, and as a result, industry, agriculture, science, education, medicine. Because there is no area today that can be said to be a level worthy of world standards. I am no longer talking about the pitiful condition of that small Ukrainian, who seems to be being cared for by the modern state. Unfortunately, in all these years, the state has gone backwards from the needs and interests of most ordinary people in Ukraine to the industrial and financial oligarchik clans and groups, which have eventually been strengthened by the power of the olympics. This movement continues today. Connecting society through the media to the idea of the normality and democracy of this state system is the tip of cynicism. Please tell me, where, in what civilized country of the world does society support politicians who have changed from half a dozen parties and even more factions in parliament?Oh, my God! Or political parties that have changed their names three times because they are ashamed of the “foretime gains”! [[in quotes]] We often have a party that's a lot of power-blowing and bloated like soap bubbles after creating their clans and giving way to the next one at the power trough. In recent times, the ideology of the party, or its political credo, or simply the axis, has been worthless to most Ukrainian politicians. Here are the cases where, figuratively speaking, you want to be over the process of stretching certain animals with fat pieces from the permeable bark. And this is declared from the high rostrums. In fact, the declarants themselves are not above it, but in the midst of this process, they have the most active participation. There are also those who, under the name of the party, seeming to be left-wing, firmly attached to ministerial portfolios, and are in the process of building a liberal and capitalistic model of the state's economy, privatizing strategic industries, cynically claiming to be supporters of Swedish or Turkish socialism. Don't waste your money and your energy on your disguise! On the street by the end of 2005. After an orange anniversary and its consequences, the Ukrainian people are able to identify who is in politics. You're the narrowest of our national parliaments! To my profound conviction, the crisis of the state, first of all, in our souls, the lack of political morality, fundamental order, honesty and dignity, because of all the parties represented in Parliament, only the Communist Party of Ukraine has preserved its political face, honestly, and openly defends the rights and interests of ordinary Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u5	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Prepare Gregory Bondarenko instead of Sharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u6	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Ukraine's bourgeois authorities recently held a show called "the first anniversary of the Orange Revolution". They talked about everything, not about making pre-election promises, because there was nothing to say. Promises stayed on. Has there not been a drop of conscience left in the hands of those in authority? In the year that followed the change of the Kuchma clan to the Yushchenka clan, people began to live worse. This is what a simple woman from St. George, the Chernigian region, wrote last year who was a supporter of Yushchenka. “Dear Mr. President! Allow me to contact you with such questions. First. When will your promise to “help the poor ” take effect? We Ukrainians believed that we would become even poorer. And where do we, sinners, and our 350-year pension give those who have a pension of 18-20, or compare the salary of 300-350 dollars with those who have 20-30 thousand? You promised 5 million jobs. So where are they? On the contrary: job cuts and closures continue. People are desperate. Young families live by taking down apartments that are to be paid for, and the child is to be put on, put on, and feed — 260 bracelets that are to be given to the child. So what kind of financier does it take to split that poor money at current prices into two or three family members and make everyone feel good? And for Maidan, you don't regret millions. Third. As for our savings. Thousands of us, single women, raised their children, and one God knows how to save money on clothing, on food, while the children were on their feet. What's the result? They lived poor and remained poor. Now, with our children, we ask you, my lords, give us our little savings, it will be once a year, and you have big money and every month. Four. Mr. President, you've come to Midan with your children. We saw that they had everything. And when do you start taking care of those kids who go crazy at train stations, trains, markets? Because you think you're the people's president, consider poor children and poor people your own. To conclude, there is a Russian saying: “Salts do not feed on fables.” Because the promises were very sweet, but their mouths were bitter. Know that thousands of Ukrainians feel that way. And how painful it is to accept disappointment from him whom they have believed as God.” Litvinenko Sophia Matviyvna, retired, mother, grandmother. In this regard, I want to contact our voters. Never believe any of the bourgeois, they will surely deceive you because they have become rich and continue to be rich. Only by robbing the workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u7	Yes, Gregory Bondarenko, who is given the right to speak by Igor Sharov. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u8	Gregory Bondarenko, Block of the National Party of Vladimir Litvina Dear colleagues, I'm going to talk about a problem that hurts all of us. I mean, failure to implement government decisions, the harmfulness of this phenomenon is followed by a specific example. In 2000, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the ethanol programme. “Ethanol” is nothing more than ethyl alcohol, alcohol. This is the program, the name of only two main positions. The first predicted the production and use of high - octane oxygen supplements for petrol. The second is the production of a chemical that would replace oil and gas products today. These boxes promise fantastic things, such as: the use of U.S. gas units would import less oil, and the mixed gasoline, first of all, not now, pollute cities, second of all, is cheaper than today's gasoline. Hymsiramine and alcohol here allow us to produce a range of valuable products, such as acetone, minblyve, synthetic rubber, fuel, and much more. In view of today’s fuel situation, the ethanol program has no price. Similar other ingredients, but what do we have on this path? In five years, only once tried to do something, it was in 2002. Two years after the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. In 2004, a special enterprise was set up by the Etanol Trade House. Soon, though, the concert “Ukrispirt ” improperly eliminated it. The court reopened the business, the Ethanol program practically died. They successfully acted in a different direction leading to bankruptcy, acquiring alcohol plants that were to enter the specially created “Ethanol”. Under such a scenario, more than one government design died. But no one has ever been responsible for this -- at least one, to some extent in all our years of independence. And that's probably the main reason that our plans are usually on paper. The breakup of the Ethanol program should finally ask those in today's government and those in it and those who have not yet escaped from Ukraine who sit on the steering seat in all governments, continuing their black work. And let it become the second Krivoristal, only in the administrative sphere. The people's faction is proposing to update the second ethanol programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u9	Basil Nadrag. Prepare John Gerasimov instead of Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u10	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that yesterday, we have made several, in my view, sufficiently principled decisions, including the veto of the President in terms of the amendment to the Veterans of War Act and the guarantee of their social protection. If you remember, there was nothing to talk about. That's the problem. Today, payments to war veterans and all categories of veterans, disabled persons and all of them are based on the minimum pension that was established in 1999 and, respectively, on the amount of 19 bracelets 90 copies. From here, there's a supplement to a war veteran in ten bracelets -- all this man's earned. I have to tell you what was proposed, and we have decided to take the minimum subsistence minimum as a basis for calculation, which will be 350 bracelets from 1 January 2006. What is the problem, and why did our passions boil? Our passions were that some people here said that we had to do it, and others said we didn't have the resources. Because those incomplete 500 million bracelets aren't supposed to be found anywhere. And I think you can find them in a lot of ways. And in the same stabilization fund, which in three billion does not understand why it is being created next year, which is not included in the Budget Code or in any other regulatory framework and has never existed in the financial system of Ukraine. So, I don't think that's a topic. Just like I don't think the subject is what this money is going to need, because every day veterans are getting smaller and smaller. Today, fewer than half a million people live in this country. And every day, I repeat, they're getting smaller. And you know, when those passions were over, I went back to my committee and started working on the mail. And I read to us, MPs, the authority of the veteran, the head of the subcommittee, the veteran of the war of Skiba Vasili Uljanović, who lives in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Eupatoria, the street of International 109, apartment 1. That's what he writes when he speaks to all of us. I would like to draw your attention by comparing two categories of people who are seemingly similar in terms of responsibility, value, service for the State and for the people, as well as to different conditions, but equal to four years. With regard to persons with disabilities, members of the Great Homeland War and us, MPs, in general, the authority of the holders. The man even drew a separate tablet in which he wrote, how and what they had, when they fought, and how and what the current authorities held. He said that they had served for four years, 45 years for the Power and for the people, under rain, snow and trenches, in the trenches of the day, for months under artillery fire, machine gun and no weekends. The food was pea soup, the porridge was pearly. They didn't even know what vacations and weekends were. As he writes, baths were rarely the ears when they occupied human settlements. People have gone through everything and today they will not understand why they have no resources in this Power. Therefore, I think everyone voted correctly, who supported this decision. And the faction of the People's bloc of Lithuania and everyone else. We're in front of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u11	Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov has the word given to him by Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u12	The Communist faction, Gerasimov. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens. As a national MP, the President of the Council of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine is addressed to me by a large number of veterans and pensioners from all regions of Ukraine on the question of unjustified refusal to pay their assigned housing and electricity subsidies. Until recently, more than two thirds of those beneficiaries had been veterans and pensioners. The State had already declared in 1995 that all veterans, pensioners and incompetent citizens should pay for housing and services for no more than 15 per cent of their monthly income. However, the State has repeatedly deceived older persons by raising the minimum pension to a minimum of living at the same time without due explanation, raising the cost of housing and services to 20 per cent. Moreover, more than half a million families have lost the right to such assistance. The deprivation of subsidies further exacerbated the situation of pensioners, as rising prices for food and medicine have reduced the ever-increasing increase in pensions that have been paid for housing. Veterans request the President and the Government of Ukraine to immediately restore social security for older persons, veterans, incapacitated workers and pensioners who had operated until March this year and to give them the right to pay housing and utility services for no more than 15 per cent of their monthly income. I would like to consider my statement to be a request by the MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u13	Anatoly Domansky is transferring the right to speak to Peter Simonenko. Peter Mikolaiovich, please. Get ready for Victor Terrence instead of Korge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! We Communists believe that the signing of an energy cooperation agreement during the Ukraine-EU summit is in the area of the global satellite navigation of the European space programme and the creation of a common aviation space. This in particular, I reiterate, under specific circumstances, a frank demonstration of the loyalty of the President and his team to the interests of Zadod, to seek his political and other support initiated by the electoral campaign. On the one hand, this agreement does not imply Ukraine's equal and mutually beneficial participation in European economic projects and political structures, but, on the other hand, does not help to protect millions of Ukrainians who earn their living in EU countries and who are exiled to the illegal situation of the current authorities. And frankly, these agreements are part of a pre-election political show, followed by fireworks, whose current power team is trying to hide a sharp decline in the standard of living of most of our citizens. The December summit agreements call into question the continued existence of not only one of the world's missile leaders of the Uzhmash and KB South, but also the entire military-industrial complex of Ukraine. And that's what I want to draw your attention to, distinguished colleagues, deputies and voters. The Company states that the specific agreement signed yesterday between, and so on, the pro-American summit, the summit of the democratic choice community, is a recognition. It is also Ukraine's recognition of the market economy, which is also a desire to bring Ukraine into NATO and to the demeaningly unfavourable conditions of WTO, that are the links of one chain that transnational corporations are trying to explain to our country by turning it from an independent State into their control territory. Instead of focusing on pressing issues, this should fill Ukraine's mutually beneficial agreements within a single economic space with a joint effort to achieve a favourable environment for WTO accession. Obviously, this will significantly complicate the resolution of the gas crisis and inevitably accelerate the collapse in the economy, lead to a slow rise in electricity and heat tariffs. Conclusion. The President and the Government, following the corrupt practices of their predecessors, are trading the country, that is, Ukraine, circulation and diversity, and conveying national interests. We have no right to do that. And in the interest of public interest, the people's interests must be said by the supreme legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u15	Victor Terrence is invited to the presentation. People's deputy Corge Victor Terrena handed over the right to speak. Prepare Georgie Büyke.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You know, there's a phrase in the Ukrainian writer Vladimir Vinick that you can't read Ukrainian history without a bromine. And if you allow me, I would rephrase that phrase in this way, and I would rephrase that the story of the return of savings to citizens of Ukraine can't be read without bromine. But judge for yourself: He vetoed the Kuchma savings laws 12 times, 12 times. And why the MPs here, let's say so, and in the meantime, I would like to remind you that, during the cadence of today's parliament, only the deputies of our Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, have repeatedly passed bills according to which the sums for the return of savings were dependent on the volume of gross domestic product in the previous year. And similar bills have also been considered in Parliament quite recently, and there is also a perfectly normal logic -- the higher the GDP, the better people should live. And if it is said that there is no such capacity of the State to return money, then we want to say once again that a specific source is the money received from the privatisation of the “Criminals”. And, by the way, Julia Tymoshenko specifically insisted that the funds received from the reprivatisation of the “Crucials” should also be directed towards the return of savings. This money is not budgeted, so they cannot measure the balance of expenditure and income. These costs can finally lead to a qualitative breakthrough in the return of savings, for when savings continue to be budgeted by only 600 million dollars. Every year, it's clear that it takes more than 300 years to get all the savings back. And I want to say more, the state is simply obliged to pay back the “Criminal” to people if this state is practicing moral values and virtues, and if the authorities want them to believe it. We're being told that it's supposed that the return of the "Criminals" will cause inflation. I don't know who invented this story, because, first of all, you can put the money back into deposits, second of all, the Ministry of Finance can make them go back to the schedule, third of all, the government and the National Bank can do a whole bunch of other anti-inflation mechanisms, it would be a wish. But the desire to return the savings in the government of Yehanurov is not exactly there. And in general, do you, dear friends, feel that money from the privatisation of the “Criminals” has long been shared? And it was so well shared that no one would feel that way. And last but not least, we're told that the money from Creebral should be invested in the economy, not return it to people, but this contrast is not correct because the return of savings is exactly a contribution to the economy, because the increase in purchasing power will also stimulate the development of the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u17	Yes, George Buiko was about to perform. But he passes it on to Alexei. Alexeyev is written next. So the people's deputy, Alexeyev, has six minutes to perform, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I would like to make a statement to the peoples, parliaments, the governments of Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus, Israel, Poland, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, Serbia and Montenegro. “We, the National Deputies, refer to the peoples, parliaments, governments, all political, social organizations of the patriotic orientation of Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus, Israel, Poland, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, Serbia and Montenegro, clearly aware of the danger of national fascism that has prevailed over Ukraine. We refer to all those who will never be able to forget the hundreds of thousands of innocent victims who have been tortured by members of the criminal organization of the U.N. Ukrainian Nationalists and their military formations, especially the Ukrainian rebel army -- UPA, organizational and ideological activities, whose daily practice gives full grounds for classifying them as a Ukrainian type of fascism. We're talking to those who don't want a final rebirth and a confirmation in Ukraine of national-fascist organizations that didn't separate themselves from their bloody predecessors and. Their horrendous crimes, their ideologies and practices of integral nationalism, their storm troopers, and their power. In the UN-OPA programme, starting with the decisions of the First Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists in 1929, numerous archival materials, court sentences, testimony from UN-OPA, the 14th Infantry Division of the SS-Galicina, the Roland and Nakhtigal battalions, numerous studies by scientists from different countries have undeniably confirmed the criminal fascist essence of their activities. On the conscience of the UN-UPA, who have tried to pretend to be representatives of the Ukrainian people, hundreds of thousands of murdered civilians of different nationalities, including Ukrainians. Yes, only in Volin and Galicín were at least 100,000 civilians killed, only because they were Poles. Ukrainian nationalists took an active part in the crimes of the Fascist occupation regime. Their conscience is the mass destruction of the civilian population: the sad, notorious Babin Yar and Hatin, the bloody suppression of the antifascist struggle of the peoples of Belarus, Poland, Slovakia, and the former Yugoslavia. So these political forces are involved in genocide against their own people and the Holocaust. Even after a devastating defeat in the years of World War II, Ukrainian nationalists continue their fearsome activity on Ukrainian soil. It is on his hands the blood of hundreds and thousands of doctors, teachers, agronomists, other specialists who have come to Western Ukraine to rebuild the war - torn national farming, to lift this land out of poverty and darkness. It was the gangs of Ukrainian nationalists who had been terrorizing the peaceful population for years, sowing blood and death. Their crimes are justly condemned by our people. Moreover, they fall under the classification marks of genocide condemned by the decisions of world society. The activities of a number of paramilitary formations fall under the definition of criminal organizations given by an international tribunal in Nuremberg. However, contrary to the historical truth and the international legal instruments, the current legislation of a number of countries, the modern followers of Ukrainian nationalism after the election of the Yuschenk by the President of Ukraine on his own initiative, as well as the initiative of the political forces on which the President relies, using favourable conditions in Ukraine, are conducting a mass campaign aimed at the rehabilitation of the UN and the UPA, its heroization, seeking to compare the soldiers of nationalist armed forces to the fighters who won the Great National War against Fascism. In many cities, especially in Western areas, streets, areas are assigned the names of notorious nationalists. They are honored with monuments, memorial boards, museum complexes for questionable “remembrance” dates, loud ceremonies, and so forth. [[in quotes]] The modern - day nationalist circle did not give up the so - called idea of the Ukrainian Congregation, which was and continues to be the cornerstone of their political agenda. The same is true of territorial claims against neighbouring states: Belarus, Poland, Russia, which not only contradicts the Helsinki covenants but can actually destabilize the situation in Eastern Europe. The ideas of the congregation today are trying to make it legislative. The situation in Ukraine under the pressure of nationalistic forces seeking revenge leads to a deep social divide, strife, and mistrust among people. Since Ukrainian nationalism claims to be an exclusive status, it tries to monopolize the people’s age-old struggle for independence. Without a final solution to a number of acute issues, without a balanced evaluation of the UN and UPA activities, especially during World War II and in postwar years, without defining their attitude towards the actions of neonationalists, who are represented by some of the right political organizations in Ukraine, the impossible achievement in a society of peace and harmony. These problems go beyond the internal affairs of one state, and they become of an international character. Addressing the nations, parliaments, governments, political and social organizations, countries most affected by the bloody crimes of UN UPA, we propose the creation of an international commission of unbiased experts to generalize actual material, to prepare political and legal conclusions on the activities of UN UPA during World War II and in postwar years with further referral to the international court. The work of such a character is urgently needed right now in the face of growing political instability in Ukraine, in recent times, the orientation of certain political forces on direct violence and political extremism. The world had a sinister shadow of fascism. Only by combining the efforts of the nation of nations that follow the path of freedom and democracy, of historical truth, will the progressive progress of society ensure that only this can prevent danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u19	Leonid Kadenuk, please. Is there a Cadinuk? None. Dear colleagues! I'm on tape here. Jaroslav Kenzier, please. There is. I apologize to Leonid Kadenuk there is. Please, Leonid Kadenuk, People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u20	Dear friends, Ukraine has a unique acquisition in space, so the leading nations of the world see us as a high-tech, cosmic state, the authority and respect of our state in the world. Ukraine's participation in unique space projects: “The Sea Launch”, “Dnipro”, “The Ground Start”, and the construction of a launch complex in Brazil for our “Cyclo 4” rocket, some examples that form the image of Ukraine in the international arena. Such projects must be national pride, their support at all levels must be undeniable. What's going on with us? The financing of space programs is based on the final principle, including inflation, even from year to year. How can you implement or support ambitious projects? The question arises: Do we want to maintain our position in the world? Will we pursue a policy of brimming space activities in our country? The dynamic development of the space sector is ensured by the implementation of many international agreements and contracts. Thus, in 2004, 484 contracts brought $278 million. And in the nine months of this year, almost 470 contracts brought in $194 million. Last year, Ukraine took 13% of the world space service market and placed 4th place after Russia and the United States and China. During this year, Ukrainian missiles launched five launches and launched six spacecraft, including the United States of America, Japan, and Europe. For the following year there is an order for the creation of a “Cilina” satellite for Russia, the planned launch of a space machine for Egypt. Five launches at sea, and these are all the costs and not the small ones that come to Ukraine, these are jobs and wages for our people. What other figures are needed to convince officials of the importance of space activities and the need not only to maintain them but also to vent them? That's the money that works today. Which were introduced into enterprises, space projects 15-20 years ago. Ukraine was invited to participate in Europe’s first space programs. What we're going to come up with, what will be the financial support for projects that will enter the European programme, how many thresholds do officials need to overturn in order to understand the truth that space activities are the concern of all ministries and departments and governments in general. It's a matter of principle. At the beginning of the twenty - first century, there was a thorough review of the approach to space activities in the world. The commercialization of the changes was a fundamental cause and result. Solving the problems noted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done, we've exhausted 30 minutes, we've even moved on more. We have two speeches in connection with the dissatisfaction of the request, the documents prepared. And then there's more. I'd like us to finish this week. And then I'd ask the committee to clarify how we can respond to the parliamentary questions. Within 30 minutes or within 30 minutes. Anatoly Rahansky, please. Get ready for a non-Cyprus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u22	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Eupatoria constituency, “Trust of the People”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. If you look at it, the presidents of our state, the prime ministers, the vice-premiers, the ministers are our former colleagues yesterday, the national MPs. But how do they feel about us when we moved to the presidential and government chairs? With great disrespect, forgetting that we are reflecting the concerns of the electorate. This is reflected in the answers to parliamentary requests and letters. For two years, I have been approached by the voters of the “UNR-28” group of the city of Eupatoria. And I am accordingly asking the government not to pay the Ministry of Defence five million dollars for the construction work done by the Eupatoria “UNR-28” construction organization. These works were carried out under the authority of the State as early as 2000, at Belbek Airport, where the leaders of various states arrived at the Crimea for summits and recreation. The latest responses from the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense to my requests. Taking into account the need to meet contractual obligations, the Ministry of Defence has committed itself to calculating from the “UNR28” in full by the end of the first half of 2006. What do they mean? They probably mean they won't, he won't be Prime Minister and Prime Minister anymore. I think it's a cynical approach. Moreover, today’s money is not what it was in 2000. Without paying for the work done, builders do not receive wages, do not pay the Pension Fund, suffer from a local budget, and the government does not enforce the judges ’ decision to pay the debt. Perhaps the government means "whom we must, forgive all" or "after me as a execution, will not be lost, and you will not get anything". Dear government officials, disrespecting their own people, who have already woken up, how you think of going to the elections, looking them in the eye. Or what introduction to the WTO we speak of, how we today do not fulfill our obligation to our own people. We have also not fulfilled our obligations to the Council of Europe for 10 years. Such internal and external policies do not suit the interests of the people. At the same time, the forum “Democratic Choice Society” is being held in Ukraine. I'm asking you to settle with the team in December of this year. For the state that sold the national “Cruvoristal” factory today, it is not difficult to count as much as 5 million dollars. Please consider my speech as another MP's request to the Prime Minister, Minfin, the Ministry of Defense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u23	Yes, Vladimir Nechiporek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u24	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Nechiporuk, non-fractional, 194 constituency, People's Authority. Dear colleagues, we have 150 requests to you, 300 requests to the law enforcement authorities on Sunday, and the law enforcement authorities are not actually working on these requests. So we, 15 deputies, went to the President of Ukraine, to the Attorney General, to the Head of the Security Service, saying that we had been asked by the German police that they had asked the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine about the laundering of dirty funds by the TransAlpina firm in Munich, who was the mediator between the KMK recipients and the Odessa power plant, which had a direct bearing on and managed this case by Mikola Rudzkowski. We have the answer that checks are being carried out, and we have entrusted the Ministry of Internal Affairs with the task. Dear Attorney General! This matter needs to be taken away from the Ministry of Internal Affairs if we complain about the minister and hand it over to the Security Service, and then have the Security Service investigate it. And it turns out that Minister Lucenko is complaining about him because he's covering up this gang's box, and he's going to be investigating it, and then these 15 national deputies, probably not thieves, will get hurt. Lucenko stated that I would not leave the post of minister, even though I would go to the first five and not agitate, but would investigate candidates from other parties and blocs, rather than the Supreme Council, but instead of being in the militia. It means that in the state now, Lucenko will rule over who should go to the people's deputies and who should not. Now, what do the traitors of the Motherland and the people of Major Melnicka's socialists do? He listened to the President of the State illegally for three years, not to the Supreme Council, not to the people of Ukraine, but to the Central Intelligence Authority of the United States. And now he and his boss, Frost, are already running their noses and they want to join the national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen! It's so national that CIA agents will be our national deputies! Now, I ask you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the President, in which we request that the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Prosecutor, be immediately dismissed as a criminal case, and that the criminal case be reopened and that the traitor of the homeland of the American spy Major Melnick and his organizer of this crime of Frost be arrested!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u25	Yes, thank you. Thank you. All of it! That's it, that's it, that's it. Have a seat. Sit down! Replica, Rudzkowski, please. Rudzkowski's name was on the line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u26	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. The previous speaker, of course, is not an agent or an agent, an agent of a mental hospital, when he makes similar accusations, saying that Alexander Alexander Moroz or someone else is working for someone else. This is a high-ranking person who was the only one who said that the criminal crimes that were discussed in the President's Office, in the President's office, should be investigated, and people like you, in the sessional room, they want to take care of the case, not just in the session room. Next. Your speech is nothing but an order. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if such people speak and accuse the national MPs of such accusations, it is nothing more than the execution of the order, including those who sit in the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u27	One minute, no last name. I would. Dear colleagues, please calm down. I would simply ask the honourable Michael Rudzkowski not to give up such words. I don't have any orders. Then form a parliamentary inquiry. If you have a problem, come on, I'll show you. With the same success, when they come up against me, I can say it's also an order. But I'm silent and I'm reading parliamentary motions against me. And I'd like to ask you to hold on. Once again, I'd like to ask you to stay within the limits of the rules. And you know what this is about. And you obviously promised to stay within the limits of the rules. Hold on! If you want us to organize a hearing here, we'll arrange it. And hold on, please! All right, your last name wasn't on it. Please! No, please, all right, I'm not putting anything. Dear colleagues, two factions demand a recess according to the Rules. I would have asked then. These are the factions: The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the KPU, as well as the factions of the People's Movement of Ukraine, Reforms and Order. [[united]] If you have any reason why you want to take a break, announce your applications, and we'll continue our work. Please, Yuri Solomatin. And Jaroslav Kenzier, right? All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, on November 30, London, my meeting took place as the head of the Beresowski-Jushchenko Temporary Investigation Commission with Mr. Bereszowski's President of the Civil Liberties Foundation, during which copies of three bilateral agreements were received that revealed the mechanism for making money to Ukraine, shadow money, during the 2004 electoral campaign. This mechanism consists of the following: Mr. Berezowski's firm.Consulting Limited, founded in Gibraltar, makes a deal with the company “.Limited”, founded in Oregon by Mr. Zvania David Važajevich, which Mr. Berezowiski claims and has evidence about. [[United States]] The object of the agreement is advisory services on the development of the client's investment strategy in Ukraine. Up to one and a half million dollars, first tranche to one million dollars. The client has no reports so far. The recipients of the funds are defined in the contract as follows: intermediate bank – “Deutchebank Trans Company Americas”, recipient bank – “Commercebank Trust”, Riga, Latvia; recipient – accounting account 10701, company “Limited”, that is, the firm that entered into a contract with Mr. Berezowski’s company. Date of implementation of those agreements, 2003-2004. Mr. Beresowski’s total claim increased from $21 million to $31 million. Mr. Berezowski is preparing a lawsuit before the English court for the Crown’s jurisdiction, the English Crown, because his company is registered in Giblartara, which belongs to the English Crown. A lawsuit for false testimony and fraud by a party who made certain obligations under these treaties. Dear colleagues, I demand that the Attorney General's Office begin a criminal case immediately under article 94 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, because there are sufficient grounds for this -- bilateral agreements. I demand to immediately create a task force to investigate and deploy it to Latvia. I demand that the DDR conduct an immediate investigation with the Attorney General's Office for the money transfer of Ukraine from Latvia to Ukraine; the laundering of dirty money. I demand that the SBA give a proper assessment of the danger to the state of Ukraine of the shadow foreign influences on Ukraine's policy by using shadow schemes. I demand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue the mandate of our commission and extend it to the 2006 elections, because that's exactly what these schemes are going to do right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u29	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Kendzer, please have your right to speak from two factions: The National Movement of Ukraine and “Reforms and Orders”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u30	Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Respectable compatriots! Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. The two factions who requested a break could not help but respond to the statement of the Communist faction. We have already talked about the bloody role played by the Communist Party and the Communist ideology in the history of the Ukrainian State. The worst crimes that can be imagined in human history today are on the conscience of the Communist Party, which, beginning early in the last century after the creation of the Ukrainian People’s Republic, drowned an independent Ukrainian state in blood. Then it methodically, constantly, the Communist Party and its regime organized famines for 21-22 years, 32-33 years, in which 7-10 million of our fellow countrymen died. Hunger 46-47. Constant repression, beginning in the 20s and 30s, ending in the destruction of the Communist regime and the creation of an independent Ukrainian state. On account of the bloody communist regime and its ideal instigator, the Communist Party, just countless crimes. And today we see that those nations are getting on their feet, and those nations are developing normally, just the ones that destroyed their communist ideology. Let's look at the countries of Eastern and Western Europe, literally these days the Czech Parliament has adopted a law on responsibility for denying the crimes of the Communist regime. And today we can speak with full frankness that until a variety of fascism is a red fascism that is still flourishing in Ukraine today, will not be destroyed, will not sit on the bench, will not be held accountable for all its crimes, good and happiness to Ukraine. We see that people today who are Parliaments of many nations are deciding that famine is artificially organized to destroy the Ukrainian nation are recognized as acts of genocide. We know that since December 9, 1948, the convention on the cessation and punishment of crimes of genocide has been in place, that it does not apply the statute of limitations to war crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u31	The thing is, he didn't call his last name, not even a faction. Dear colleagues, even the faction was not called. Please, there's no reason to say it. Peter Mikolaiovich, wasn't it called the faction, what am I going to give the replica? Nothing was said; the political charge was made, but nothing was called. I can't. The report of the Provisional Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of illegal arms trafficking, military property and their illegal transfer to other countries is under review. I beg you, there wasn't. For what reasons? Check in with the procedure, three minutes, please. Three minutes from question one procedure. Mikola Nosenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u33	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Did you pay attention to one thing? The previous speaker did not say a word in defense of the UN-OPA, because there was nothing to protect. All this criminal activity of this organization is confirmed by the Nuremberg process. There is no village or settlement in Ukraine that would free the so-called UN-OPA soldiers from the fascists. They were their guides, and so in the circumstances that today’s power under the leadership of Yushchenka is contributing to the strengthening and practical resurgence of neofascism, we turn to other nations. But I remind you, in 1918 they sold Ukraine to the Germans, in 1919 they sold it to the French in Odessa, in 1941 they sold it back to the Germans, and in 1991 they sold it to the transnational corporations that now own Ukraine. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u35	Vladimir Boronnikov, faction of the “Ukraine” region, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, all who are present in the Hall, all who hear the morning shift from the Supreme Council Hall. Dear colleagues, we are in a situation of early elections. In this regard, note the incitement of anti-indignation against all those who disagree with the current policy of the Government and those who, as it were, are parties who are calling for fair elections. They say they're all honest, and I'm a rogue. Therefore, if we are talking about fair elections, for a decent conversation, the Party of the Regions calls on us to be that way, not to insult others in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u37	Sergey Ratushniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, one question is: the state is a force of violence, the loving power is, in a larger or lesser degree, criminal, we have forgiven all those who have oppressed us for thousands of centuries. Not only did you learn to forgive each other: East of the West, South of the North. It won't be Ukraine, dear. Please give the rest of your time to Oleg Tsagnibok. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u39	What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u40	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. So, gentlemen of the Communists, maybe you'll stop talking about the UN-OPA. Remember once and for all: Nuremberg has not condemned any Ukrainian or Ukrainian organization, including UN-OPA. And against you, who committed the genocide of the Ukrainian nation in the 20th century, destroyed more than 20 million Ukrainians, and long ago it was necessary to try communism, the 'Nürnberg-2', and ban you. And stop insulting the patriots of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u41	The issue is under review: a report by the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of illegal arms trafficking, military property, and their illegal transfer to other countries. You know, according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Friday, we hear reports by two or two committees. At the same time, the chairman of the commission requested that the report be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a later date. But since this is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to take decisions on this matter by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, to change the decision that was adopted. For that matter, Valentin Grigorovich? Please, the microphone. Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Indeed, the report of the commission noted should be heard in line with the Supreme Council’s ruling today. By the way, your honor, this commission has been working for almost 10 years, that is, for three calls. And directly under the direction of the commission, under the leadership of the People’s Deputy, Sinchenka, was created on July 11, 2002, the third time. Therefore, according to the Standing Committee, Vladimir Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should today make an appropriate decision on the cessation of the commission’s activities, as no material on its activities has yet been received by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u43	What? The commission heads? Please. Sonny, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, there's no need to report, there's no problem. But. There is a need for sound communication, given that the report was to be agreed upon by all members of the commission. And they're represented by all the factions. And because we have very large material, and because we don't have an agreed opinion on the material itself yet, I don't understand that some politicians and faction leaders probably wouldn't want to hear and want to close this committee any sooner, so my request is to move our report to one Sunday and we can't worry about the fate of this committee. I think the commission will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u45	Three minutes of motivation, please. Sign up. And now we're going to determine by vote. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Paul Sulkovski, “Regions of Ukraine”, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I am also in charge of a commission that was created literally a couple of weeks ago and, in fact, when the commission had a short period of time, even the members of the commission were not convinced that so much material would come. So, really, there are short-term problems on the committee and I support previous speakers, which really needs to be given the opportunity of the commission, as many issues have already been addressed. And if it is to be completed within a short period of time, so we need to support the Commission's request and allow it to work out so that, in fact, the committee can practically raise awareness in its entirety. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u47	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u48	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u49	Peter Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u50	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, this is based on the initiative of the Communist faction 10, practically, a commission of the Supreme Council was set up years ago to investigate the most terrible crimes of the Ukrainian government, which dealt in illegal weapons and these weapons in the hot spots of the planet killed people, children, women in such a way. More than $30 billion, that's the amount of weapons sold from Ukraine. And this money is not in the budget. We've initiated, we've recommended Sinchenko. But after betraying the Communist faction and repeatedly addressing him, he said: “Be an initiator. Please consider and bring to the attention of the Supreme Council the conclusions of this committee.” He's not gonna do anything. That's why I'm saying today, he's just a coward! And I demand that, as a former KGB employee, he be brave.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u51	Sergey Ratushnjak, please. Now there'll be a line, let's finish the speech, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should investigate any crimes of any kind, more of a national scale. The question is that we need to trade, not in factories and land, but in weapons and bread. That's the first one. But with the opportunity, I wanted to ask the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Yesterday, a criminal came to the state of Ukraine who had been trading classified material about our country for five years. For five years he has embezzled and discredited the state of Ukraine in front of the whole world. This freak is biophysical, you know, political and immoral, so his name is Melnichenko. I believe that he must be arrested and questioned for systematic crimes against the State of Ukraine with the son that I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u53	I would ask, fellow Members, first of all, to abide by Parliament's rules and rules and procedures. Because now they're blaming me again for ordering you this speech. I'd like you to count me in on the situation. Yes, they were exchanging thoughts. Shinchenko's replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u54	Well, I can't answer the demogogia, which is completely groundless by the leader of the party I respect, Peter Simonenko. This is a person who uses classified information to announce it at the rallies. So a responsible politician can't act, so only a person can act for the sake of sensation, so that he doesn't answer for his words. And I'd like to say that I didn't trade weapons. The information we have relates to Ukraine's interests, not to specific individuals, and our commission will therefore make a clear statement in favour of Ukraine and name all specific names. And we won't hide any information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, there is a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on what. This decision came not today, that we will be listening to the report of the commission headed by Sergey Sinchenko. This is the interim commission of inquiry into illegal arms trafficking, military property, and their illegal transfer to other countries. In order to make another decision at the suggestion of the chairman of the commission, we need to put the matter to a vote. So I'm putting it to the vote now so that the MPs can determine, the Supreme Council, on transferring the report of the commission on the verification of illegal arms trafficking, military property and their illegal transfer to other countries for the next plenary week. Please determine by vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:02]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Yes, please, Sergey Grigorovich, your report. We agreed that we would take five minutes to report. Is that okay with you? How's it going, Sergey Grigorovitch? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! Once again, I would like to reiterate that, in carrying out the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the commission of inquiry is currently conducting a final and analytical study of a large number of documentary materials, which consist of 20 volumes and secret documents of about 2,100 sheets, which are important for the national security of the State. With this in mind, the commission will be prepared for a full summary report, according to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation of 17 November 2005 between 16 and 23 December 2005. On this point, I addressed the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, and received permission to withdraw the commission's report today on December 2nd and to transfer it to the next plenary week. The reason is that the final version of the report and the statement by the head of the commission of inquiry should be studied and agreed with all the members of the commission. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that some information should be considered in private for reasons of confidentiality. However, it turns out that there are two heads in the Supreme Council, and the second team has a higher level of legitimacy. Hence, the issue of this insistence is still in the order of the day. And in order to finally tear it apart, it is also planned to take advantage of the moment or turn it around at all, for the head of the commission of inquiry is now in another faction. I would like to remind you that the commission had already been closed in 2000 and was not given an official opportunity to report in 98 years, but the subject matter and relevance of the issues had not only deteriorated, but, in the light of the international scandals that have arisen since then, with the participation of Ukrainian citizens, the sale of arms and especially the property of the Ukrainian Armed Forces had worsened and needed constant monitoring not only on the level of the commission of inquiry with limited rights, but on the level of the standing commission of the Supreme Council, as we have it, on matters of privatization. So I ask once again, on the basis that all factions and groups are represented in the commission of inquiry, allowing the commission to report from 16 to 23 December 2005. Your decision on this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, Sir Sergey Grigorovitch, one minute, I'd like to say to you, I wouldn't speculate that we have two heads of the Supreme Council. You came to me yesterday on the move, showed me a piece of paper to move, and I told you, if this is not a matter for the Supreme Council ruling, I have no objection. But it will have to be agreed, for the decision is taken by the Ukrainian Conciliation Council. You're just so calm about it and you're saying someone gave me a command and I did it. I concluded that on November 17, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decision. Why didn't you come up and deny it, and now you're trying to find some political moments here? I just don't understand it humanly. There's a decision. If I decide. Let's take it off. Are you suggesting that the Supreme Council will take a decision, and by my one-man decision, I revoke the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Why do you just say that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u58	But we can't make a deal. I'm telling you again in Ukrainian, I told you that if this is not a decision and there are warnings like that, let's do it. But the decree was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is that what we're talking about? Yes, I'm Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u59	For the sake of this room, for the sake of the fact that the commission has been working for a very long time, there are a lot of materials, and they need to be submitted to the Supreme Council in a qualitative manner, I am again asking you to do so: I am rejecting all political hints because they are. They're gone. Just the deputy gave the command to put the day's unprepared material in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u60	I'm asking you, Your Honor, to put forward a motion for a ruling and to present this motion for a ruling. Once again, I would like to make a motion for a ruling, to take a decision of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine, which took place on Monday, at 11 a.m., where this point was clearly fixed. Well, why would I say that? I would ask you to leave all your political divisions outside. Here we acted in harmony with the arrangement. Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u61	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm a member of this committee, from that call, the third call. I want to confirm that my colleague, Sinchenko, is certainly right: a lot of work, and I can say that this scandal with the "twilights" that got heated, it's mostly, and you remember that you put us in the Embassy of the United States of America. We were, in fact, members of the commission then had a simple interrogation. And I think we behaved with dignity and dignity according to the instructions you gave us back then. The commission actually accumulated a huge amount of material. And you could, for example, take stock of the work of this commission and hand over the documents to another commission that will be formed in the following. So I think it would be perfectly reasonable if the chairman of the commission asked him to give it time, let's move the sums for a week or, well, two before New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u62	Well, what's the motive if there's no question?Oh, my God! The head of the commission refuses to report — what can be discussed, Peter Mikolaiovich?Oh, my God! Well, sign up, three more minutes, please. Anastasiav, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u63	I'd like a word with my friend Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u64	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Well, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u65	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respected radio listeners, the Communist faction takes a principled position and requires that this report be held so that we know the truth about what they are earning. But they earn what is said in the people: to whom is war and to whom is the mother of kin. Then, in Artemovsk, downtown to hide their crimes, warehouses explode and missiles fly around the city of Artemovski. Then, for the second time, Melitopolis: warehouses explode and traces of crimes are destroyed. As with others, the mass of facts to be revealed and shown. As we have to deal with today, in the end, and put an end to the arms smuggling that is going through Ukraine is related to neighbouring territory, through Ukraine and is being sold to other regions. Vladimir Mihajlovich, this is really a matter of the authority of the State of Ukraine. And if that's how people's crimes are disguised, we don't know what we have today: a state or a junta!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u66	Valentin Zubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u67	Valentin Zubov, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, political party “The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! People's Honourable Fellows We all know what to do! The work of the commission is a very serious problem. I would like us to put our emotions aside now and yet, based on the extremely serious significance of the work and the conclusions of this committee, allow the commission's head to report in a week. I think it's going to be okay, because the problem of arms trade is really a subject of serious and perfect study. Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I also ask you, please, all members of the people to vote positively and to allow this committee to report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u68	Please, Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u69	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to hear the report, of course, because it will be interesting what happened to the arms in Ukraine, where the "thorns" were shared, that's what colleagues are talking about. But I can't imagine how I can get reliable information if the head of the commission and the members of the commission aren't ready to report it to the Supreme Council. We've spent a lot of time looking into other issues. The faction of the Socialist Party therefore insists that both parliament and the people of Ukraine receive reliable information from the head of the Follower’s Commission of the Supreme Council. And to that end, we suggest, if necessary for the cause and for the truth, that we postpone hearing the report of the commission, because we are practically not going to get the information we need today so that we can give.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts here. I want to read for all of you, and especially for sonny Sergey Grigorovitch, who here is talking about two centers. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17.11.105: “The arrangements for the organization of activities are temporary and temporary commissions of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On page three, it says, listen to the reports on page two, 16th, 23rd. The first is the 2nd interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the illegal arms and military property trade and their illegal transfer to other countries, established by a Supreme Council decree of 11 July 2002, the head of the Commission of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sinchenko. And the second point is: the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on financial and economic justification for sources and mechanisms for restoring citizens' savings, what stands today. How do you come back after that, Sergey Grigorovitch? Do you not read the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? You picked up this note on the move yesterday and said: “Well, if it doesn’t work out, let’s make a decision. “ I don’t know I'm in charge of making this informed decision, but you can't blame everyone and everything. I am voting on the motion to move to December 16th on the issue, on December 16th on the review of the report of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of illegal arms trafficking, military property and their illegal transfer to other countries. Please vote. [[11:55:19]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the report of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the financial and economic justification of sources and the mechanism for the recovery of Ukrainian citizens' savings is under review. Reporter of the temporary special commission, Fomenko Katerina Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners. A report by the Ukrainian Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council on the basis of sources and the mechanism for the restoration of Ukrainian citizens’ savings is given to you on November 30, which is quite large in volume and warehouse. Thus, taking into account the five - minute time limit for the report, it is fragmented. The commission worked in two directions. The first is to look for external sources outside the state and to look for internal sources from the state budget and other sources. What is done in the first direction? On the basis of a study of the vast number of documents saved by the Soviet Union and its dissolution, the commission concluded that there is now every reason to return to negotiations with the Russian Federation regarding the obligations of the former USSR to investors in Ukraine. These findings are supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These findings led the special commission to obtain only the results of the Treaty’s findings on the general basis of relations and interrelationships of the USSR Savings with the savings of the republics and states since October 30, 1991. Under this agreement, all 83 billion rubles transferred to savings located in Ukraine from 1922 to 1991 were transformed into interbank loans granted to Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Moreover, Ukraine’s credit for this loan was to receive interest each year. On February 5, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed decree 3289 on the establishment of an interparliamentary parliamentary group in conjunction with the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. We invited Kabmin’s experts, Nazbank, to join the commission. By the way, they were the experts who were directly involved in the preparation of the documents for the distribution of the USSR Savings. He's the deputy head of the National Bank, Sergey Jaremenko, the head of the Department of Economic Cooperation of the Ministry of Economic Cooperation, Sergey Viktorovich Kruglik. The same working group contributed and produced materials as possible sources of compensation for Ukrainian citizens’ savings, the cost of Ukrainian property located abroad and the former Soviet Union. They're worth millions of dollars. Ukraine’s fate is officially recognized as 16.37. This is the second possible source of the return of Ukrainian citizens' savings. Unfortunately, three governments changed during this time, three changes in the composition of the National Bank, three changes in the state of government. Once again, the new government has offered us new representatives. That is why the work of the working group is restrained. The October 30, 1991, agreement was handed over to me personally at a personal meeting of the President of Ukraine for use by the government. The president took the matter under personal control. There is a expectation that he will finally be able to work in a permanent regime of the parliamentary-government working group. As far as internal sources are concerned. On April 9, 2003, a 3359 real estate tax bill was issued by the special commission. It will be considered only by one commission on transportation and construction. And since April 2003, it has been under review by the Committee on Finance and Banking. This is the tax, since the savings of Ukrainian citizens were used as investment resources to build industrial buildings and so on, and so on, could be used to recover savings. In drafting the bill, the special commission held talks with representatives of the parliaments of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia of Kyrgyzstan. This tax has already been introduced in all countries, honourable national deputies. In all the countries of Post-Radians, except Ukraine and Uzbekistan. Let's finally show political will, we'll adopt this bill, and 100% of the coming tax should be directed towards the return of Ukrainian citizens' savings. The Special Commission proposed Bill 4475, which identified about 15 additional sources, excluding the General Fund of the State Budget for the Recovery of Savings. To date, a bill will be under consideration as soon as possible, supported by the Head of the National Bank, supported by the Association of Banks of Ukraine, supported by the Association of Frauded Investors of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, as head of the special commission, I will ask you to support this bill. But it will finally give us an opportunity to answer people when they get their savings. Of the 18 bills discussed in the Supreme Council, 8 did not vote, 3 were removed from the vote, 2 were revoked by the National Deputies, 4 were not considered at all. By a decree of the Supreme Council of February 3, “On Parliamentary hearings on State policy in the area of the return of Ukrainian citizens” we demanded that the Cabinet give its project, but we have not received it yet today. By the way, for all the bills passed by the people's deputies, none of them were supported by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u72	Yes. Catherine of Alexandria. There will be questions. Let's sign up for the questions. Three minutes, please. Let's do 5, if we have to, let's do 5. The question is important. Please. Please sign up for questions. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Korsakov, please “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u73	Pussy Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u74	Yeah. Please, Alexander Paklusenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u75	Faction “Regions of Ukraine”, Pecklusenko, Zaporozska oblast. Vladimir Mikhailovich, such a serious question, it's probably not enough for five minutes. Because we majors in the districts, 90 percent of voters come to us and ask, "What will happen to our savings?" Ekaterina, you can go to the Guinness Book of Records today with such a brevity on such a serious matter. I would like you to answer the main question and tell the country as a whole that no one has put more than the Januković Government into the savings budget. It was the Government of Yanukovic who had set up a billion dollars and 6 billion services, of which only 1/10 had been used by the current authority. And what is laid on this serious issue for 2006? The voters are waiting for us to get their money back. It's a duty of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. Indeed, out of the 131 billion funds that have been indexed in our State's debt by the predecessors of the USSR Sbergbank, only 2 billion U.S.S.S.S.R. has been returned to today. In fact, the Janukovic Government was the only one who, you know, the practice of perpetuating, well, in the last 500 million years, laid down an additional 6 billion bracelets, which were to be credited to 7 billion in debt by NAC Naftogaza. By the way, the debt owed to investors by the USSR Sbergbank for housing and utility services. Regrettably, the Government of Yulia Timoshenko, today's Government, has not been able to implement this rule of law and, with a total of six billion to date, only 800 million have been made. According to the information I requested from the Ministry of Finance by the end of the year with 6 billion can be maximized, about one and a half billion. Moreover, it has been the case that the previous Government has made an amount. The State Budget Act 2005 reduced the amount of 6 billion to 3 billion and today it is 3 billion, and will be implemented at best by one and a half billion. This is certainly not the best way to address the issue of the return of contributions to the population. But it is necessary to use all the levers in the input scheme, a non-monetary form of return through treatment, through the provision of services in health care, education, but certainly the best and most acceptable method of return, that certainly must be a cash payment. With regard to the 2006 budget, today's Government has increased the amount of 100 million from 500 over the past three years to 100 million more each year. Regrettably, only a billion are set to continue the set-up of housing and utility services, i.e. the amount has been reduced to almost five times the level approved for the fifth year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u77	Maria Marcus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u78	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Chairman! Dear reporter! The return of contributions to Ukrainian citizens is an extremely important problem that the state cannot solve today, although at a time when citizens have been invested since 1999, it took on the responsibility of the former State when these contributions were accumulated. I would also like to say that Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko was offered a rational and real bill which. the mechanism was proposed, and this mechanism was such that it could be used to return money to investors. To this day, the state is denying investors their lives, and I don't know how long they'll be able to pay them back. I have a citizen, Michalčić, who was 105 years old, 105 years old! Not everyone lives to such an important age. I've asked four or five times to pay him back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u79	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u80	What's the question, please? Unfortunately, on a case-by-case basis, you can't return any deposits. Some cases are not possible because there are only 50 dollars to bet today. of each bill, as well as 150 g's. After the funeral. So I absolutely agree with you that first of all, we should give these contributions to the most affected people in the country today. By the way, I would like to inform you that a special temporary commission has held negotiations with the Constitutional Court on the standard that it has proposed -- the implementation of the article of the Seventh Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens in 96, when the Constitutional Court has prohibited the sharing of investors by age and any other signs. The bill, which is proposed by the interim commission today, states that those who are 80, 75 and so on and so forth should first receive it. The Constitutional Court had previously agreed that such an article should work. The Constitutional Court agrees to provide a new explanation for today. And I think, if you and I show political will and we vote on Bill 8050, which includes this norm, then your investor, my dear colleague, can get his savings first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u81	Yes, the time is up, please sit down, Catherine Alexandrovna. Dear colleagues, why don't we discuss it briefly? Please, for 15 minutes, let's have a discussion. Terrence Victor. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u82	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, we've just heard the report, and the report, by the way, is very clear, and I would like to mention this, as I'd like to say, as a positive sign that the amount of funds that are used to compensate for savings can't be lower than the amount of money that's received from the sale of enterprises scheduled for reprivatization. I would like to say that this is a very good approach, I have already talked about it today, and once again I would like to stress that Julia Timoshenko has strongly insisted that the funds from the privatisation of the “Criminals” should be directed towards the return of savings. And it really needs to be done immediately, until the cost of reprivatization is again in the pockets of Pinchuck or someone else. But it's not just the "Criminal". Here, please, the Nicopolian Ferrospile Plant has been sold for 400 million dollars. The Ministry of Industrial Policy estimates the factory’s value by about 700 million dollars. So they've sold 400 million dollars, they're estimated at $700 million by the Ministry of Industrial Policy, and I want to emphasize that when it's auctioned, of course, the costs will be enormously higher. So the reserve is very specific, these costs can and should be directed towards the return of savings. With regard to the Nicolepol plant, the court decided in August to transfer shares to the state. In spite of the court’s decision, the shares have not yet been transferred. So today it's going to be a profit to the stockholders of this plant. You know very well who owns these shares. And that's 50 million dollars a month. Please, once again, it's worth it. You can focus on the savings return. And profit is $50 million a month. The profits of $50 million a month are illegal, contrary to the court's ruling. And that's because today people get 50 dollars back in a year, just like it was a year ago, two years ago, and so on. I mean, even these miserable 50 bracelets, they're no longer 50 bracelets, as planned before, because they've already been eaten by inflation. And I would like to emphasize that when we talk about sources of privatization, and that's absolutely fair, because people built these businesses themselves, we also need to conduct investment indexation. This is bound up, this index might be, let's say, a dollar to not be the same as other young women in the country, I recently received a letter: in 1992, a woman, this family, sold a horse, put it on savings -- and today they have a 17-copy bracelet on the cross. This should be decided if we respect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u83	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u84	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues, the report of the commission's chairman was very interesting. And yet, will Parliament find today a mechanism for the return of savings to Ukrainians? We know that these funds were taken out of the state, we know how they were done, we know the contractors. True, the chairman of the commission today did not tell us who was to blame for exporting jewelry within a few weeks. And what we're telling people today is that this kind of cost, if we're talking about 112 or 116 billion savings, there's no going back. So the question is, where did the money go? But we didn't get the answer today. We need to take decisive measures. And socialists have repeatedly made proposals on this issue. Suggestions remained only proposals. Finally, we have come to the truth: either we will be saving back, or we will speak only from the rostrum of Parliament and on television, and we will tell our voters that, ‘vote, there, for us — we will pay you back the savings’. So socialists still suggest that if we plan to sell certain objects, privatize them, or on other lines for the next year, let's say 30 percent or 40 percent of the money we get is going to give back the savings. The savings owners are waiting for this, but if we're going to give 50 dollars and put it to a funeral, I think we have enough of this amount that we have today to bury the whole of Ukraine. And, excuse me, this is not the answer. Next. You know, not just a faction of socialists, but other factions are proposing that in the 2006 budget we set up two or three billion dollars, but that money should be returned to the savings owner, not telling him that we're giving it to him in order for him to have community services to pay or something. And if he has others, we'll talk, intent on doing his job. So why are we intruding on doing this to the person who's been working and has these savings? Now I'd like to tell my colleagues. "Don't judge, don't judge." Let's not tell Parliament who to shoot, whom to arrest, dear friends. Parliament to adopt laws, not to judge. To that end, we have the Attorney General's Office, the socialists, for all the Ukrainians who have left the country to return to Ukraine, 7 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u85	Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich, you said you didn't say who did it. Get on with me for being undervalued. Come on, let's get it over with, let's get it over with. Please, Basil Nadrag. It's my fault the savings didn't come back. No, you didn't say, I'm saying, just give it all, I'll take it all, come on. Like you didn't say, I'm just saying, come on. I want someone to be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u86	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! We've been listening to the permanent commission's report today, and that's fine. I would like to say how a person of interest has been invited not once to the round tables, and to all kinds of consultations with specialists, that there are mechanisms by which the unreachable and lost savings of the former Sberg of the Soviet Union can be returned to the population. And we've heard a lot of proposals and variations in four years of convening here, but I would like to refer to Bill 8059, which is sponsored by the members of the commission, headed by a chairman who has already been reported here. And Catherine Alexandrovna simply because of her lack of time was unable to stop at the bill. So, with your permission, there's a few points. The bill provides that 1.5 per cent of the gross domestic product per year will be allocated to the Sberbank debt. The bill provides that this amount will always be paid to the annual public debt. In this way, the State recognizes that it is bound by its obligations for a specific year on this subject. The next bill stipulates that in 13 years, I emphasize, not 50 years, not 100 years, not 200 years, but 13 years, the State is able to pay all its debts to the population. Moreover, the bill also provides for a mechanism under which the population will be able to obtain those debts at small cost, but still earlier. And that is normal, because I know the opinions, I stress once again, I have participated in round tables and discussions, as both the executive and the legislative authorities have recognized that the mechanisms laid down in the Fomenco Bill of Ekaterina Alexandrovna are real and only need to be formalized in our Hall. That is why I appeal to the Hall, my dears, Bill 8059, which has been worked out by the Commission and submitted to the authors, including the chairman of this Commission, we must consider it as soon as possible. Because it is a normal mechanism with economic realities that allows the people to pay the debt for which, absolutely right all speakers, are ashamed to meet people when they ask: What does the authorities want to do about the debts they have made in our money? I therefore stress once again that there is a legislative mechanism, Bill 8059 has received the support of all, including the Cabinet of Ministers and Minfin, who have recognized that it is realistic on economic opportunities, and it can therefore be boldly concluded that the Fomenco Bill of Ekaterina Alexandrovna is real in order to solve this problem in general. Thank you. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u87	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. Unfortunately, in our lives, it happens often, often, when a person says one thing, he thinks the other, and he does the third. That's the kind of people I think might be President of Ukraine Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich. Here I have before me the newspaper “Governmental courier ” since November 16, 2004. What will be the first decrees of Victor Yushchenk if elected by the President of Ukraine? I'm reading. “About urgent measures to ensure the return of lost and lost citizens’ savings.” Next, a solemn talk. In 2005, the corresponding payments will increase significantly. The decree provides for the inclusion in the budget of additional funds not supported by the privatization of strategic objects in 2004 and the channelling of these funds to offset lost savings. This is particularly the case for enterprises such as the “Criminal”. Where is it, Mr. Yushchenka? The document also states that in 2005 unplanned revenue will go to the budget, as well as 50 per cent of the total amount of funds received from privatization. Tell me, dignitaries, where's the 2006 State Budget project? Moreover, according to the decree, the state will do what it has refused to do so far – admits the loss of savings of citizens to a sovereign debt, which must be returned to the people. That's how we live. When we go to the polls -- loud speeches, multilingual promises, and when we come in -- we only care about those around us, in the environment, they rip up into the state's yellow and blue trough and croak for all their orange powers. Dear, aren't you ashamed to do this to the people of Ukraine? And I don't think so, because you have neither shame nor conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u89	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u90	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the question of the restoration and return of savings to the citizens of Ukraine lost by them, has been alive for many years by the Supreme Council. And finally there's a reason to say that the commission that's been working for a while has given us a product. Maybe it's one of the few commissions that offers something real. Well, it's complicated, let's say it's not a simple decision, but I still want to give due consideration to the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on financial, economic and resource-based issues and the mechanism for restoring Ukrainian citizens' savings. After all, something has fallen into solid sediment. Of course, we need to make sure that these mechanisms and these ways of recovering savings are adequate, real, and effective. I think you can conceptually agree with what the commission is offering us. All the work, all the work that's been done over the last 10 years as a minimum, it's condensed into a bill and is proposing a bill to the Supreme Council. What are the main issues of the bill and of the recovery of savings in general? The main problem is that the state owes its citizens the domestic debt of Ukraine. In this regard, the executive authorities are fiercely opposed, and I understand it. Because taking this huge amount on an internal debt is really going to blow up Ukraine's economy. But there's no other real way to solve the problem, except to dare to take this very difficult step, if we really want to return the savings. If not, let us say no, let us not be misled. And if we want to return, there is no other way – the state recognizes this debt as an internal debt and thinks about what must be the mechanisms for its return. The second question is, how much of GDP should be counted each year? One and a half percent is proposed. I think that's the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u91	One minute, Hellcat, please, from the place microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u92	The faction “Regions of Ukraine”, Pecklusenko. With all the importance of the question, who is to blame for the loss of this money, I think our voters today are more concerned when they get their bloodstains? So I think in approaches, in mechanisms, we need to put the system in place. The essence of the system, from the point of view of our faction, lies in the following: the State, the Supreme Council, the Government must commit itself to telling the people and the country: all the money will be returned in five years at most, and not only savings, but all the adventures that our electorates have experienced are trusts and bonds. People must know and be assured from the State that this money will be returned in five years at most. A certain amount or percentage of the budget should be made available. There's got to be a government program. The Party of the Regions, the faction has such a programme, and we will implement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u93	Yes, Your Honor, the committee's report has been discussed. I am completely in solidarity with all who have confirmed that this is or is not one of the most important problems that exist in our country and that it needs to be solved. And we're getting close, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer, we're getting closer. You have heard a statement by President Nazarbayev, who said that there is virtually no problem in Kazakhstan. You know the experience of our neighbors and Belarus and Russia, especially Belarus, where they found the opportunity to repay these debts. If we go back like this, it's 100 years and 200 years and so on. And yet we're going to be looking with you about the Creebrisstal, and I think there's a very fair offer, all 20 billion to give to people, because Creebrisstal wasn't made by English, not Hindus, it wasn't made by those who would sell metal, it was created by people whose costs were in the Zberbank, and at the expense of those funds were created. So out of 132, if we go back 20, we're going to get close to doing this program. And in turn, you know, pretty easy pieces: and "Small," and so on, and so on and so forth. I'm sure the greedy pieces that, five years from now, we can pay off 132 billion. Because if we're selling things back to where it's going to be, it's not for the benefit of people, it's for the benefit of people. I mean, dear colleagues, there's the commission's proposals here. I will put to the vote, I ask you to prepare a ruling, a draft decision by the commission is 8503 to take the report of the commission to the public and to entrust it with appropriate legislative initiatives to resolve the problem by 10 February 2006. Please vote. [[12:28:11]] For 274 Thank you. It's been decided. I, my honourable colleagues, am also addressing other commission leaders, asking, indeed, to approach a solid document as we now see, the report of the commission and the proposal. A draft decision on what to do next to a commission, for on the following Friday, we will be listening to you again. Listen, please, before you go to the following questions, an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, I will inform you of the exit of the National Deputy Kaletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich from the membership of the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and its membership in the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. [[united]] Another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Law on the Status and Article 4.2.2 of the Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nasalik Igor Stepanović, into the composition of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. The question of “Draft Laws on Lawyers” is being answered. We have three bills: 7051, 7051-1, 7051-2. Marcus, Sobolev, Onichuk. What are you going to tell me? Please, Vasil Vasilovich. One minute, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u94	Adam Ivanovich, allow me three minutes because.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u95	I'm sorry, then. Please have a seat. We'll go in order. Please, Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u96	All right, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u97	Please, Marcus. Prepare Soboljevo. I can't. They blame me. Please, Maria Marcus, please report your project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u98	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Today, we finally got to the point where we're looking at the law on lawyers. The current adoption of Ukraine's new law on legal counsel is based on the need to address a wide range of theoretical and practical problems in the organization and functioning of Ukrainian law based on the gains of international experience in this area, taking into account the provisions of the Constitution and other changes in national legislation since the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine in 1992. A lawyer as a legal institution has the place assigned to her in the second chapter of the Constitution, which deals with the rights, freedoms and duties of a citizen as an institution that guarantees the right to protection. The legal protection function of the lawyer is also enshrined in article 59 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is why the legislation on lawyers required that it be brought into line with the requirements of a valid Constitution. The requirements for the adoption of the new Ukrainian Law on Lawyers are also due to the following factors: Ukraine's entry into the Council of Europe in 1996 and a number of commitments, including the creation of a professional association of lawyers, have been made. This commitment has not been fulfilled until today, as noted in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe document number 10676 of October 5, 2005, in resolution 1466 concerning Ukraine’s obligations and obligations. There has been little judicial reform, and lawyers as the most important law-enforcement institution have been forgotten, and the status of lawyers in criminal and civil trials has not been strengthened, but has been weakened. In 2000, a lawyer's profession was struck by an unprecedented blow by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the decision of any legal professionals who, unlike lawyers, are not bound by ethical rules, for which there is no mechanism to control the quality of assistance and to bring them to justice. The planned introduction to the WTO also requires a settlement of the boundaries and grounds for the admission of foreign lawyers to activities in Ukraine. Yet, not those humiliating conditions for Ukraine, as suggested. The bill changed the structure of the concept of approach to the bar on the basis of the organization, so it's a professional law enforcement institution at the state level. As far as status is concerned, it is an all-U.S. organization with a defined Constitution of Ukraine with the only title of “Ukraine's lawyer”. The adoption of the bill will address the important problems of institutional and legal enforcement of Ukraine's entire legal system, strengthen its authority as a professional organization with special constitutional powers and an integral part of the legal system will allow Ukraine to join the Hague Convention on International Access to Justice in 1980. Who hasn't faced the law enforcement system right now doesn't understand how much more lawyers need to be strengthened right now, because today is the wrong side of the process. The bill sets out a number of concepts, including Ukrainian lawyers, lawyers, job definitions and the principles of law enforcement, order and order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u99	Are there any questions? You don't? Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergei Sobolev, please. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the Law on Lawyers. I would like to stay for three minutes in key positions that distinguish this law from the current law on "Procurement" and which are the key points, as we think, of such activities as the activity of lawyers. First of all, the bill that I have the authority to present from the people's deputies Musiyaki, Stretovich, is a bill that directly and clearly defines an understandable apparatus. A number of articles are specifically designed to provide a clear definition of the terms that make it easier to define other laws, codes that allow these concepts to be revealed. Secondly, the very location of lawyers and the definition of what is a lawyer in the rule of law system is clearly defined, which makes it possible, in addition, to define key parameters for the activities of lawyers. The clearly defined conditions for obtaining and ceasing the status of a lawyer are, in our view, quite important. And for example, there is an additional requirement that does not exist today in legislation, such as an impeccable reputation, which is deciphered in an appropriate article of the law. There is a clear definition of the right to engage in a legal activity that is granted exclusively to lawyers, and this is how we resolve a number of issues that relate to improper legal assistance that has been given without responsibility for this improper legal aid. Orders of registration and accounting of lawyers are set. At our suggestion, the bill creates a single register of lawyers who are open and posted on the Internet for public access so that there is no manipulation with such an important issue. The types of legal aid are clearly defined; they are listed in article 24 of the bill you have proposed, the procedure for granting free legal aid is laid down because, you know, this issue is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations today, and unfortunately, they do not always meet the needs when a person cannot get legal aid, and the meagre payment that was offered in fact or improperly continued to be carried out by this legal aid, or lawyers refused to provide such legal aid. The guarantees and rights of lawyers are expanded, the professional duties of lawyers are clearly defined, and there is also a definition of the concept of a lawyer’s secret that protects the rights of the client. And the last thing I'd like to stop at. The bill defines the responsibility of a lawyer in providing undue assistance, which is regulated by the insurance of legal activity if such assistance, for example, does not satisfy the client.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u101	Thank you. He wants to ask you a question. Please, it's a black guy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u102	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Sergey Vladislavovich! In my opinion, the law on lawyers is essential. This area of activity needs to be regulated by law. I think it's an update on the Supreme Council's legislative work, it's in the context of judicial reform, and I'm going to vote for it, and so is our faction. But the question is, "Why the Three Bills?" And for which to vote one, to base them on whether they're alternative or not? What do you suggest in this regard? Is it possible that one of them needs a bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u103	Undoubtedly, one bill is needed to enable the committee to work on the bill in accordance with the rules of procedure. I would like to point out that, as of today, the key contradictions that exist in the bill are the following: first of all, duty, or non-responsibility of being a member of a union of lawyers. The bill that I am introducing from my fellow national deputies is a bill that provides for non-compulsoryness, without being forced to join the bar. That is your duty of honor, but in no way is coercion and stimulation determined solely by the possibilities that you receive by becoming a lawyer, not simply in a college of lawyers, or by appropriate organizational entities. The second fundamental point, in my opinion, is the definition of protecting the activities of a lawyer. Well, it's not a secret, as is the use of individual articles, including the Criminal Code, when lawyers stay away from the process. And we know a lot about these examples, in view of the fact that, for example, a criminal case is opened regarding a lawyer, which is then closed. But that's how the lawyer's work in this coordinate system ends. The next fundamental moment, in our view, which differs, is in this bill you will see a complete list of all the legislative acts that have to be brought into line with our bill. So that it would not be possible to entrust Kabmin with the task of tasking the committee with the task of developing some or other legislative acts. Which will not be developed for years and will be direct contradictions, there are, for example, codes, directly, normative acts that regulate the taxation of the system, the provision of legal aid. Here you'll find all of this in one single piece of legislation where we suggest that we make these proposals directly. Well, I can tell you in the absence of time, a whole series of different moments. So, no doubt, I'm aspiring for my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u104	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich, but you seem to be the author of two bills, that's better understood. Yes, please, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u105	Dear, honourable chairman, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian lawyers, respected citizens. Indeed, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is listening to one of the fundamental issues of Ukraine's social and civil development, because it is a basic civil institution that should become a lawyer, and which should essentially contain what we call public authority from trying to violate the constitutional and other rights of citizens and their freedoms. As you have already heard, three bills have been submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament. I have the honour to report on the bill, which is written by me and the national MP Sergei Slabenko. A few words about the features of this bill, especially given that it is more important than ever, to synchronize the steps we are taking in the reform of the judiciary, the law enforcement system. With a powerful Ukrainian lawyer sitting next to them as a self-sustaining independent civil organization, a professional organization. You know that Ukraine's attorney today is not really like that. Because, first of all, it's disunited. There are several branches of the legal profession that provide legal aid outside the bar. And the law itself, because of the absence of law, is a fundamental law that is divided into certain parliamentary legal groups that unfortunately cannot act consistently as a civil institution. What is the specificity of our bill? There's two of them. The first feature is that we do not foresee such a professional association of lawyers based on the institution of compulsory membership. Accordingly, the bill does not provide for mandatory contributions by lawyers to such a professional association. The bill deals with this and defines the organs of self-government. In particular, a meeting of lawyers. Bar associations in areas with full authority and appropriate regulatory functions relating to the activities of a lawyer. And the second feature of the bill is that sufficiently and more developed are the guarantees of lawyers to engage in their professional activities, the guarantee that they are really independent of the possible influences of the administrative system, executive power and other subjects in the process. Dear friends, I'd like to finish this with time taken into account. Thank you for your support in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u106	Thank you. Let's hope so. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Three minutes of yours. Come on. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u107	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I wanted to save time and tell you about the situation that happened with the law on lawyering. The point is that we are listening today to a question that the committee did not bring to the attention of the Supreme Council. But if we've touched it, and thank God it happened. However, the history of this issue has been ongoing since 2004. The point is that it was then that three bills were introduced that were considered on the committee. Then we were able to unify all three bills and submit a bill to the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, on September 24, 2004, the Supreme Council did not support a harmonized bill. After that, it was Markusz, Demöhochin, that Carmazin introduced a bill in February of this year. We sent him to different institutions, even to the Council of Europe for expertise and tried to look at the sessions of the Supreme Council. But in March, the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine and the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine addressed us with a letter to the Supreme Council, the Committee, so that we do not look at these bills, since they are to hold their meeting in June and November and are to be defined conceptually. There is. Great contradictions. And here's what we've come up with in this process, that on September 19 there was another bill, namely the Head, Sobolev, Stratovic and Musiaki. We've brought the committee up to date. December 1st, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, he has this right, he has another bill of his own. How can there be a Committee on Legal Policy in such a situation? We set up a commission to work on. And I think that's where we're going to find a way out of this difficult situation. I think what you discussed today is not bad. I think that's what we agreed on December 6th, 11 o'clock, and we invite all the authors to the committee: The Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court and we will discuss only one issue: the Institute of Lawyers in Ukraine to get to the one and only piece of legislation. Perhaps this will be the author’s draft of Marcus, perhaps another. But I think we're going to make such a consolidated decision. The next step, on Thursday, on the next Thursday, is going to be 8 numbers, we're passing a bill supported by the committee and we're taking it as a basis. All niches will, of course, be alternative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u108	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Write down three minutes for questions. Yes, please, Maria Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u109	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, you know that this bill, which comes first, is where we and Demyokin and Karmazin put it in order of a legislative initiative in February. It's just that I'm on the committee, and until now, and it's not clear why it hasn't been considered so far, even though it's been defined by the President as a priority for consideration, because, in fact, Ukraine's commitment to the Council of Europe to create a professional organization of lawyers is not being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u110	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. I just said that there are objective reasons why we haven’t considered it. There were seven bills in general! You know that. Today, and you're going to confirm this, you're giving up certain principles for the benefit of other bills. So, of course, it's bad that this process is delayed, but, on the other hand, thank God that it happened, we're going to come up with one quality bill that will eventually be passed as much as possible in this year as the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u111	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u112	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of the Regions, “Regions of Ukraine”. Vasil Vasilovich, please tell us, against the background of the underdevelopment of civil society that we now have with you, against the background of the declaration of human legal protection, including against the abolition of the state and institutions, the need for these bills and new approaches does not call into question anyone in this room. The need to improve the system of legal protection of people, I think, has been particularly evident since that prosecutorial-police tax haven, which has painfully hit on the first sprouts of democratization after the orange "insult". Please tell me, how has legal aid been given to people without high incomes? If such a standard is prescribed, what law? It's for this law that we're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u113	Thank you. But the rights of citizens can be protected in the courts when there is an issue. When there is no dispute, they are considered in a different order. For example, the Notaryate Act. And there we wrote some benefits in the Notaryate Act, and it goes to the second reading. When there is a dispute and the assistance of a lawyer, the committee is currently considering a draft law on free assistance from lawyers. Right there. But you have to understand that lawyers are the same people who want to get paid. The other thing is that it has to be put on the shoulders of the state, and that's where we're working on improving this bill. Today, I want to say that there can be no voting on these bills today. The committee didn't actually consider them, and I didn't bring them back -- I repeat -- to the session. We'll do it next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u114	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vassil Vasilovich! I honestly don't understand why we can't block the law now, I just don't get it. That's it. The fact that there is today a promotion of legal counsel in the Law on Public Organizations clearly contradicts article one of the Ukrainian Law on the Unity of Citizens, according to which these associations are formed, not by professional signs, but by the unity of people’s interests. So all of this today pleases you, I understand, and then the question is not to adopt one law, one project as a basis, and then, on its basis, to work on it, to grow it with meat. That's the first question. And the second question. The purpose of lawyers ’ activities is to provide legal aid or profit? And how do you feel about the taxation that now exists? Can we continue this, Vasil Vasilovich? This is a very important question. It's more important than kicking money out of something.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u116	Yuri Anatolyovich, I have great respect for you, but if you don't understand something, it's your problem. The following questions that you have asked, please come to the Legal Policy Committee meeting on Tuesday, where we will professionally address all these issues that you have asked on the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u117	Thank you. Have a seat. Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, don't be alarmed. I'll have you killed. Formally Vasil Vasil Vasilovich, more loyal, not formal, but logically, he's right. But formally it is wrong, because it has considered or not considered a committee, it has been quite a while, there is an appropriate rule of the Rules, which states that if a committee has not considered a bill in the term, it has the full right to be considered at the meeting of the Supreme Council, even though it explains the reasons for its actions. And they're also right. I think we're going to do the right thing now if we discuss these three bills, we're going to take one of them as a basis, and we're going to give the committee the opportunity to prepare it for the second reading. In the second reading, they will make all the suggestions they need. 15 minutes to talk. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Vladimir Cherniak prepare. Mikhailo Melniczuk. Melniczuk, you're invited to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u118	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Alexander Moroz, Cherniewec region. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Socialist Party faction will support Bill 7051 of our colleague Marcus. We discussed the faction on this point, and we think we could support two other bills, but since the opinion of the people's deputies is that we should adopt one bill as a basis and then work on it to be the only law on lawyers, we agree with that logic of approach. But what I would like to say is that once we're accepted as the basis for the second reading, we certainly need to draw the attention of our colleague to what is, of course, the conclusions of the science-expert administration, which should be taken into account in the second reading. This is particularly true in the second article – the definition of the task of a lawyer. They must, in our view, be formulated in full conformity with article 59 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The following question is related to article 3.6. 46-61, where the creation, the establishment of the All-U.S. Chamber of Lawyers as a body of the sole administration of the legal profession with mandatory membership in it. As far as this can be decided, we will speak very quickly, so that this does not conflict with article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine, so that we can foresee a voluntary unification of the U.S. Attorneys ’ House to make it a voluntary union of lawyers. So we could not violate the Constitution when we adopt this bill as a law, and so we would agree with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Scientific and Experimental Authority. The Socialist faction will support, I repeat, the bill. And I suggest, fellow Members, that you first read this bill, 7051. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I apologize. We were so excited to discuss the question that I went wrong for that list. I had on my monitor a list of those who signed up for the questions, and I started after them, not those in the rostrum. But on this list, which is from the rostrum, is Black. That's why I give him my word. There was the Saddow, the socialists, we'll take care of it, we'll make a statement. Get ready for Shevchuk Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u120	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National MPs, the bill that we are discussing today, has been knocking long ago at the door of the Supreme Council. The law on “lawfulness” is essential, it is one of the main elements of the judicial system and one of the main instruments for protecting the rights of citizens who are under pressure. Therefore, we are obliged to speed up the adoption of this bill. Actually, I'll be honest with you that I was surprised by the position of the Committee on Legal Policy, why he allowed such a delay in considering the bill. I realize that the siege was certain and everything else, but I still think that, well, you can't justify it when such a bill has been on such a topic for so long on the committee, and it doesn't move and it doesn't bring it into the session room. Now it's about the bills. We're facing a dilemma: either today we're going to adopt one of the three bills and we're going to take into account the preparation for the second reading of the position of other bills that we don't have, or we're going to prepare a bill with the authors, and we're going to go out with it in the session room. Here's the dilemma that we're facing right now. And yet, with all the attraction of the second moment, the second option, I tend to the first, because it speeds up the process. Although it's the will of the hall, how to decide. I would like to point out, in the absence of time, one detail, that it is very important that qualified legal aid be given to people who have little money. And that should be reflected in the law. Because solicitors are monopolies too. And they can raise prices and protect our citizens and provide them with qualified legal aid for low-level fines. And I am drawn to this by Bill 7051-1, which deals with the cost of providing such assistance and the low cost. So in the process of preparing either one bill or adopting one of them as a basis, I ask you to consider this point so that the question of legal aid costs is settled in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u121	Yes, Sergey Shevchuk, behind him Kalinchuk. Chevchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u122	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we're in a difficult situation right now. Three good bills, all worthy authors and the phenomenon of project competition, and we can find ourselves in a situation where none of us will pass and we'll put that question back on later. At the same time, we don't know what kind of bill recommends that we base a profile committee. Because the profile committee didn't consider it. So I want to convey the word to the head of the profile committee, Vasil Vasilovitch Onopenko, to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u123	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, Onopenko in this situation is right both in form and in fact. Because other alternative bills, such as the Bill of Governors, joined the Committee on September 19th this year. Could the committee have prepared it when we sent it to the Bar Association, the Ministry, the courts, other institutions, public organizations. We couldn't, we couldn't physically. Finally, we made a decision on December 1st, this is yesterday, a registered draft of the Law on Lawyer Mikola Vasilovich Onichuka. We couldn't have been there at all. I personally, I say, like the Bill of Mary Andrew Marcus. If she does, she will. But Mikola Vasilovich says he has better offers. And he's entitled to that, too. Sergey says that his bill was passed there, in general, by almost every expert on the Council of Europe. That's why I'm asking you. It was very good of us to have a conversation today. But there is no need to be hasty about making decisions. If we want to accept the understatement, I apologize for that word, the underworked bill, which, let's take with violation of the Rules. [[I'd like to speak to my colleague, Mr. Cherniak, Professor Cherniak.]] We work professionally on the committee ourselves. And I want the law institute to really work. There are very different proposals in terms of whether or not we have the Ministry of Lawyers, and there will be none, and who will run the bar. He'll be giving orders to a lawyer to speak on the matter of who's in this department or who isn't. It's about the bar. If that were a simple question, we would have solved it long ago. So once again, the best way out is to assign a committee today, we're only discussing this issue on Tuesday, and we're making a decision that we're taking for consideration on Thursday. And on Thursday, we're going to adopt a really balanced bill, not in a hurry. Hurry up and make people laugh. There is no basis for making decisions today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, respectable Vassil Vasilovich. Whatever decision you make, the drafters will insist that their drafts be voted on. You can just say the committee's opinion, but still we're going to be two or three more, after all six we're going to have to vote on, so that doesn't change the point. Please, Kalinczuk, I can't see. Solomatin Yuri. And get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the draft law on the Bar has great legal meaning. Our people are now in such a life situation where they are forced to have a permanent case with the judicial branch of power, and to get to the judicial branch without a lawyer, without properly worked-up submission is not possible, especially in the village. So if we're building this bourgeois, capitalist society with an independent judiciary, we really need to create, in my opinion, and a branch of lawyering so that lawyers are not scattered, so that they're not completely independent, but that they have corporate honour and dignity in order to have their corporation, even it's bound by law to provide legal aid to disadvantaged types of people at prices that will be acceptable to them or offered to take money to meet the needs of such people. Hence, the law is essential and must be considered and adopted in the first reading. Not everyone agrees that every lawyer has membership in such a legal corporation or guild. The question may be difficult, perhaps contradictory, but it can be solved. And yet I think that the absolute part of lawyers, by their own consent, will go to such a guild, will go to such a corporation that they not only have their own personal but also corporate honour and dignity to the people of Ukraine. So I support Bill 7051 Maria Antonovna Marcus. And I would very much ask all who are present in this room to support him by their vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u126	Another Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Please. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The bill, reported by colleague Marcus, was registered on February 4, 2005. Now open the Rules and see which bill is an alternative, and it says, one that came forward within two weeks. But after the introduction. And I ask that the Regulatory Committee intervene in this case, because there is a deliberate misrepresentation of the Rules. Projects that are not alternative according to the Rules are now being put in place. And that's what makes it all turn out to be, this injustice is happening. That's the first one. And the second. Why? Oh, because they don't want it to be right. How are you supposed to do that? And we need to adopt a bill that was reported by colleague Marcus 7051. Why? Because the point is that there is no legal basis at all for providing legal aid free of charge. Investigators today. Today, lawyers do not know how to provide suspects, accused, defendants in criminal proceedings for the appointment of judicial review bodies to the prosecutor or the court with free legal assistance. Who will pay for it? Who? And today everyone says: "Yeah" There are some colleges, let those colleges do it, and why? And how do the niches bear responsibility in this, other lawyers? That's why it's suggested that the All-U.S. Attorney's Chamber should be set up and set up. But the higher body will be what is provided for in the Constitution – the Ukrainian Bar Association, it is foreseen, its mandate, draft article 51 of the law. Here is the question of how membership in this association is acquired and so forth. And of course, it is necessary to change attitudes and not to refer to a public organization, which is contrary to the Law on the Unification of Citizens, according to which such associations are formed, not on professional grounds, but on the basis of the common interests of citizens. And lawyers are acting to protect and represent constitutional rights. It's a legal ambulance, it's legal aid. And here's the big difference when it comes to taxation. What is it? Providing Services or Legal Aid? If you provide services, it's an entrepreneurial activity, it's a completely different tax, under the corporate tax scheme. And that's where this difference is also set out in this project. So, honourable national MPs, I ask you to support the bill first, especially that others are not exactly alternative in the sense that it provides for the Rules and then to take into account everything that will not be taken into account and all the opinions of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, which exactly recommended the adoption of this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's be clear. The first is the draft of the Order of the People's Deputy Catherinechuk on Inadmissibility, on the inadmissibility of Bill 7051. I shall put to the vote a draft order. [[13:10:01]] For-13. Unaccepted draft ruling. We will now vote on the draft laws themselves, as we discussed them in this order. The adoption vote is based on the first reading of the draft Law on Lawyers, registration number 7051. Please vote. [[13:10:38]] For-142 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please: Communists – 53, "Regions of Ukraine" – 38, National Party – 3, "Our Ukraine" – 14, Block Timoshenko – 0, Socialists – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 4, Social Democrats – 0, National Block – 0, "Trust of the People" – 3, "Reforms and Order", "One Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – Zero, Non-fractional – 3. The draft Law on Lawyers, number 7051-1, shall be put to the vote. [[13:11:34]] For 111 Not accepted. The draft Law on Lawyers, number 7051-2, shall be put to the vote. [[13:12:00]] For-88 Not accepted. Dear colleagues, we will now do this: let's essentially conduct a rating vote, the biggest of which is Bill 7051 - 142, 7051 - 111 and 7051 - 88. Once again, I put to the vote the adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill No. 7051. Please vote. [[13:12:50]] For-163 There's an offer to re-read all these three bills. Please support the friendly, we vote, all three bills. [[13:13:14]] For 269 Vasil Vasilovich, you have the opportunity to work and take us out. Now. And give us a harmonized bill. Three minutes, offers they want. Sign up. Yes, please, Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u129	Adam Ivanovich, it is time for us to work in the “Variable”. This is a proposal to support the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u130	We can't interrupt the question. Let's finish this, and we'll hold out. Please, Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u131	I ask you to give Peter Mikolaiovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u132	Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u133	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I took the floor for procedure, Adam Ivanovich. Please and Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvina: When you are asked to announce the results of the faction vote, please call “Litvina’s People’s Block” because it’s a strange game: where the zeros stand, where there is no vote, none of our voters will understand what the People’s Block is voting there? Then call your name as upon a tablet, and it is written, that all may know who is voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich! You certainly know the Rules well, and that's why I'm asking you to organize these projects and so-called alternatives, so that it doesn't happen that yesterday's project is only for the purpose of blocking other projects, as it happened under the Law on Lawyers. I find such actions illegal in the Secretariat of Inclusion, and I condemn them, and I ask you not to do so again. And I would also ask that the Committee on Rules and MPs be given a mandate right now to look into how a project was registered, which is not an alternative, in terms that are in breach of the Rules. And let's not do that anymore. Adam Ivanovich, don't pretend you don't understand! You understand everything, you're a smart person, don't make a look, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u136	Thanks for the high score. Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u137	Thank you. I can also say that we spent half an hour in vain and did not consider other bills. And now I want to pass the word to Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u138	Taran's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u139	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear friends, I want to say that democracy, the right in the state, is not only about upholding human freedom, such as freedom of speech, the press, but democracy, first and foremost, is based on how clearly the judicial system works. And the fact that we put all three bills out for re-reading today shows the serious approach of Parliament to this problem. And that's why our faction supports that decision. And now, Adam Ivanovich, let's really move on to the “Variable” because there are a lot of problems that the honourable national MPs want to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u140	I'll tell you. Mikola Rudzkowski, please. None. Yes, dear colleagues, we'll be signing up now. It's literally two seconds. In terms of announcements: we always shorten to make it faster, you try the full name -- we're going to read the whole thing, there's nothing strange about it. But the chairman always shortens the names because everyone understands what the People's Block is. George Carmazin in reference to the remark. It's absolutely fair. That's why I'm going to the Secretariat. When you register drafts, you put in other numbers. It does not number one, two, three, if it is broken before that basic but completely different number. Because we can't deprive the author of the right to legislative initiative, but he's already going to be considered not as an alternative, but he's going to be seen as another bill. What's the difference: because if it's an alternative, we have to look at it all at once; if it's a separate, non-alternative one, then we can look at it gradually. And clearly, if one Law on Lawyers is passed, the other will no longer be accepted as if he had not registered under it. I ask the Secretariat to pay attention to this. And I can't agree with the representatives of the BUT faction, and one said that they spent in vain, and the other said it wasn't in vain, and I agree with the one who said it wasn't in vain. Since we discussed the problem, we resolved it as required by the Rules. Next time we'll be spending less time with you, probably on this. Sass, please don't yell, because you're going to tear your voice down in vain. He'll do you some good. Please sign up for the “Variable”. Yes, please explain. One hour. Please, Mikola Nosenko, the Communist faction. Prepare Drachewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u141	Mikola Nosenko, Ukrainian Company faction, Chernigovishte. “Solidarity resolution with Palestine and the people of the Middle East. At the initiative of the Anti-Antive Committee of Ukraine, 29 November 2005. The Palestinian people are at the first frontier of the struggle of all the peoples of the Middle East for freedom and independence. The solution to the Palestinian problem is the key to peace and stability in the region, the establishment of a more just, peaceful system of social relations, free from imperialism and Zionism as one of its manifestations. We appreciate the life achievement of the first President of Palestine, Yasser Arafat, in this struggle of the Palestinian people. It was through the continued struggle of the Palestinian people that several more steps were taken to consolidate their true independence, to establish their national authority, to open their own border control and so on. But every victory over the just demands of Palestine and the United Nations resolutions, the Israeli authorities seek to become a new form of oppression against the free-loving people of Palestine. This is also the creation of an apartheid wall and the conversion of Palestinians into captives on their own land and the pursuit of the implementation of the UN resolution to entrench a large part of the occupied territories forever. These inconsistent and hypocritical actions by the Israeli authorities, which are covered up by the United States, only contribute to the longevity of the many years of conflict, lead to new unjustifiable victims, which can only be avoided in full and unconditional implementation of all United Nations resolutions on the establishment of a Palestinian State with Jerusalem as its capital. As members of the Assembly, we believe that the main condition for resolving the Palestinian problem at this time is the cessation of external military, political, economic and other interference in the Middle East, the immediate cessation of Iraq's occupation and threats to Syria, the granting of the peoples of the region the right to decide their freedom at the negotiating table. On behalf of Ukrainian citizens in support of the Palestinian people, we demand that Israel withdraw from all occupied territory to rebuild an independent Palestinian State within 67 years, free all Palestinian political prisoners, immediately cease the war and occupation of Iraq, withdraw all foreign troops from its territory, prevent the spread of war in the Middle East, stop the international defamation and threats against Syria, immediately halt the extraneous persecution by the United States. The same assembly decided to hold a rally of solidarity with the people of Syria, an anti-war rally.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u142	Yes, Victor Drachevsky, faction. Group of the People's Block of Lithuania. Out of the way, please, microphone. Mikola's mosquito is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I don't have a real opportunity today and the board members find out where Ex-Major Melnichenko lives. So I would like to take this opportunity to read out the decision of the interim commission that I held yesterday that Melnichenko was secondly invited to a temporary commission of inquiry to give evidence of a case involving the organization of a cassette scandal. And this commission, its next session, will be held on December 7th at 12 o'clock at Sadova, 3, office 213. Thank you. Lately, I'd like you to tell Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u144	Yes. Two minutes, oily Boris, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday we celebrated a ten - year anniversary loudly since we joined Europe. Today, to avoid awakening Europe, we are already whispering 10 years from the beginning of our commitment to the same Europe instead of three years. In connection with this, in which I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council, that the entire selective association, with an acquittal request to expedite the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code, to translate the penitentiary system under the wing of Minsk, to clarify the status of the procurator of the corresponding Eurostandards. I've only named a few out of a package that's not perfect. I'm not talking about Gongadze, Alexandrova. And when someone expects people to believe that Viacheslav Cnerwell would die in an accidental road accident, and Kip and former IMF Minister Kravchenko, who did not kill themselves for the first time, are deeply and tragically mistaken. So let's leave it to the mockery of the world society and let's finally open up the customers and the perpetrators of the killings of Gongadze, Alexandrov, Cranovola, Kirpa, Kravchenka and not just the names and start with the local, but no less important. Once again, I appeal to Minister Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka for the responsibility of the Polish Children's Library of the name Panas Mirno. People are suspicious of the fact that almost immediately after the fire, the library came to requisition new owners with automatics. Perhaps this time parallel tells us where the fields are hidden. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u146	Mikola Komar, please. Following him is Lyszczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u147	Mikola Komar, faction of “Ukraine”. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the “Regions of Ukraine”, claims that the policy of the Orange Authority results in restrictions on the rights of local self-government and the degradation of the institution of local self-government as a whole. Direct testimony by the Government to the Supreme Council for consideration in the second reading of the draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 which does not address the important problems of financial security for local self-government. The region's party clearly disagrees with the government's intentions to redistribute the budget to the centre, which deprives local self-government of the ability to finance its expenditures, including the performance of the functions delegated to it by the State. Our principle is to increase the role of local authorities and improve their resources. We insist that some of the local budgets in the budget is expected to increase. During the Prime Ministership of Viktor Yanukovich, for the first time in the existence of an independent Ukraine, an attempt was made to fund the expenses of local self - government authorities in full measure. The ratio of government and local budgets in Ukraine's budget was 57% to 43%, and in the time of orange rule, this ratio does not change sharply for the benefit of the regions. The proportion of local budgets is declining to almost 30%. We are close to the problems of every city, village, and village, where local authorities today break their heads to distribute coins that are barely enough for wages and energy. Because now local budgets are experiencing a deficit in the cost of even protected articles. In the 2006 budget proposed by the government, most of the revenue was planned from the regions to the centre, and local authorities had eliminated all problems, including various social benefits. The Party of Regions supports the fair demands of local government officials for the use of 5 billion dollars taken in places to address the problems of Ukrainian citizens directly in the regions, not for the treatment of holes caused by the mistakes of the central government. The Party of Regions strongly believes that decentralization, strengthening local self-government, providing financial security for the overall development of the regions is the foundation of democracy and ensuring the well-being of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u148	Thank you. Lyszczynski, I can't see. Yes, please, Polakova, no. Rudzkowski Mikola, please. To prepare Odanik, he conveys the word to Slabenko. But weakness, leave it on the monitors, for he will pass on his word there later.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u149	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Mr. Drachewski, as a member of the same commission, I want to say that we also need to vote on the commission to come to this commission of inquiry and Leonid Kuchma, and Vladimir Litwin, and give clear indications that they spoke in Leonida Kuchma's office, what crimes they organized and what actions they then allowed the performers to do so that the whole world and the whole of Europe are not terrified of the things that happened in Ukraine and are happening now. For today, when the Council of Europe says: “Ukraine has no place in Europe until the Gongadze case is investigated until there are hearings in Parliament that are open to this issue.” There's a decision by the Council of Europe, it's not happening. Why? Because he doesn't want the leadership of the Supreme Council to have these hearings, because he doesn't want the leadership of the Supreme Council to come to Major Melnicken, let him show up to both the Attorney-General's Office and the commission, he has to give all the necessary materials so that not only the executioners, but the buyers, in the end, are brought to criminal responsibility. Let the investigation take place, let the trial take place and determine the measure for everyone. And there's no need to speculate on that, Mr. Drachevsky. They should all come and show, not hide behind the MP's mandates or the President's former integrity. Next. The socialists in the budget have asked the question in principle: if our position is not taken into account, the war children's programme will not be funded unless 14 billion per village is allocated, particularly for agriculture, and not just for the whole village, the socialists will not support this budget. Why? Because if we don’t support agriculture this year, the following year we will have the same famine that we remembered last Sunday. In this situation, I think that the Supreme Council needs to be consolidated in the adoption of the budget, to balance it in a way that after 2-3 years, we would eventually have a Constitution: free education, free medicine. What prevents us from accepting the Law on State Insurance? Zoom in. This increases medical funding by five times and provides free treatment to citizens. Of course, it'll increase 3 percent of the load by. And he'll increase his taxes. But we will have the hope of a healthy nation. I am therefore convinced that the decision on the budget should be balanced and in the interests of most Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u150	Sergei Slubenko instead of Odainik. Hara gives the word. Prepare Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u151	Sergi Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Let me introduce you to the statement made by the deputy faction of the People's Union “Our Ukraine” on the protection of the rights of ordinary shareholders. The Parliamentary faction “Our Ukraine” urges the Supreme Council to support a government project, a law on shareholder society. World practice shows that equity is one of the most effective forms of ownership. It contributes not only to raising production but also to improving the investment climate. Today, nearly three quarters of Ukraine’s industrial capital is working in this form of ownership. There are about 35,000 in our country. A variety of stock companies, nearly 200,000 of them. Open-ended type. However, Ukraine’s current Law on “Consequences of Households ” is far from living. There is only one position regarding the rights of shareholders, and it is not so clear and clear to Ukrainian citizens. This has led to numerous conflicts in corporate governance, infringements of shareholders’ rights, and direct abuse. For many private shareholders, dividends have become unattainable or are paid, not by money, but by goods. The faction of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" demands that the citizens of Ukraine be paid dividends at the proper time. And at least 15 percent of the profits of stockholders should constantly go to shareholders, including those with only one share. We express our confidence that under government control such practices will become mandatory and that the rights of shareholders will be guaranteed in that country. Life itself requires a new law — the Act on Shareholder Associations, developed with the Cabinet of Ministers, supplemented by the State Commission on Securities. It removes the gaps and inaccuracies of current legislation, protects the rights of all shareholders, as well as associations, and the interests of the State. The bill introduces the principles of transparency in the activities of shareholders and provides for the payment of dividends exclusively in money and in full. In addition, the adoption of the company’s shareholder bill will contribute to the improvement of Ukraine’s investment image. At the same time, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the largest number of complaints that are currently on the electoral side today relates to equity rights. In fact, the reselling of whole - estate complexes, the withdrawal of their basic assets from stock companies, and the transfer of them to other societies have become a fact. For example, in the Voline area, in the constituency area, number 19 I had to face two facts when the property of the open stock company Ivanichivska Sugar Plant was taken over by the Prime Minister of “Europe-sugar” just as the property of the open stock company “Notex” had now become the property of the new cooperative. These are the remnants of the work of the previous authority that we are reaping today, when the remnants of national property have tried an illegal way of handing over to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u152	Alexi Korsakov, please. Prepare Igor Raphaelovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u153	A statement by the faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of the "Regions of Ukraine" on the situation surrounding the supply of gas to Ukraine. Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! The faction of the Party “Ukraine” draws public attention to a threatening fact as a result of the total failure of the current government, particularly in the foreign political sphere of Ukraine, found itself at the brink of economic collapse. The negotiations with Russia and Turkmenistan on the supply of gas, which is being conducted by our authorities, were a highlight of this. The inadequacy of the foreign policy of today’s authorities has already attracted Europe’s attention. Today’s diplomatic states have actually given us an ultimatum that the responsibility for Europe’s energy problems associated with the supply of blue fuels lies with Ukraine. Experts say that when Europe realizes the role of Ukraine in its problems, we will have to make African choices instead of European ones. The party of regions stresses that in this artificial war the people of Ukraine, our country, will suffer the most. By December 1, 2005, the government had planned to develop and introduce new elevated tariffs on natural gas and electricity for all categories of consumers. This means that it is the little Ukrainian who is so fond of orange power that the greatest loss from the politicians elected today is for the sake of national interests. The price for gas for the population is almost twice as high, housing and utility tariffs are 1.6 times higher. Even worse will be the effects on industry, especially metallurgical and chemical ones. From such gas prices, the entire Ukrainian economy will become unprofitable. The Party of Regions strongly condemns the non-professionalism of orange power, which has led to a dead end in the Ukrainian-Russian negotiations on the gas issue. It is unacceptable to initiate a sharp conflict with the neighbouring state, especially the Russian Federation, which is a strategic partner of Ukraine. We urge today's leadership to abandon blackmail during negotiations with Russia on gas prices and to learn from this the negotiating experience of the government led by Viktor Yanukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u154	Igor Rafailovich Junovski. Prepare Korja. He conveys the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u155	Yukhnowsky, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! There are three main directions for Ukraine's development: the transition to a knowledge society, the creation of a middle class, and the state's sustainable energy supply. I'll stop at question three. Ukraine’s sustainable energy supply is among the most important. Ukraine will have no more than seven million tons of oil per year and no more than 20 billion cubic metres of gas. In the meantime, we need nearly five times as much. The problem of carbon energy is global. The intensity of energy replacement solutions in Ukraine is completely unsatisfactory. I would like to remind you that some European countries are working very hard on this issue. In particular, the Republic of Austria is almost complete with the so - called biodiesel. Ukraine has 30 million acres [30 million ha] of roller coasters. One third of this area can be allocated for biodiesel. The best source of biodiesel is rapeseed oil. The National Biodiesel Program is to be created, and this is one of the most urgent issues facing Ukraine. The second important source of gasoline is coal conversion. A recent international conference in Luhansk confirmed the possibility of obtaining 16 centers per liter of coal. The scientific institutes of Donbas and Kiev worked on stand models of coal - gas extraction. These robots offer extraordinary prospects for the coal industry of all of Donbas, especially the Luhansk region. We urge the government to create two important state problems. The Committee on Science and Education will hold an expanded meeting on this issue in January. Deputies! Back in the early 1990s, when I was on my way to the head of the Supreme Council, or some other position, I was talking about that Ukraine, which doesn't have its own gasoline, doesn't have its own fuel, only drives cars. Which is not in any country of the world. I then said that we should use much broader means of movement, which are related to human muscle strength, such as cycling and the need to build suitable roads for this purpose. This question remains extremely relevant today. Dear friends! The problem of energy security in the country, of self-sustainment, is one of the most important things we have to face. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u156	Please, Sergei Sass. Prepared, True One. Passes the word to Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u157	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! An independent market country must have a complete and effective mechanism of State budget policy. The effectiveness of fiscal policy is not without its impact on major changes, as is the result of a variety of reforms. There is no exception to the budget reform that seems to have been defeated. The latest confirmation for this is ridiculous additional grants to local budgets. At a minimum of one and a half billion dollars, needed only to pay wages in the area, in the budget area, the government has managed to allocate three times less in the last month. And they're going to go in the form of subsidies exclusively on wages. Because 82 percent of the local budget spending this year is salary, so there is no big choice. Of course, the increase in wages in economics is a normal economic phenomenon. Its share in the structure of GDP in developed economies is 70 percent or more. For example, in Ukraine in the current year, this is only expected at 27 percent. If we're going to get a stability framework, we have to expand our internal market, which is to increase the share of GDP's wages by 2-3 times. As soon as the tax base is substantially increased. This is what the government of Yulia Timoshenko used to do. Its government policy was designed, balanced, and focused on long-term national interests, namely the growth of the internal consumer market. Because of the rise in social pay and the increase in supply in the commodity market, both by own production and by partial imports of goods to raise the standard of living of the average citizen and increase production. However, the government’s actions today are dominated by other trends, as rules, that are negative. The most clear example is the 2006 draft budget, where one of the main areas of fiscal policy remains unsecured in 2006 is the improvement of the economic structure of local budgets. The large resources that seem to target local budgets are largely earmarked, but they cannot be attributed to the amount of direct funding and increased resources of local budgets, according to the Cabinet of Ministers. And the inclusion of subsidies in local budgets is from the evil one. The calculations show that the minimum transfer to local budgets should be at the level of the calculated amount of the per capita income tax – this will allow for a 50 per cent share of the local budget's wages. At the same time, the average wage in the budget area will be provided at 85% to the national average. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, sees the development of the state as a result of the development of local self - government. The monopoly of the center on absolute authority must go back and replace it with the principle of trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u158	Yes, please, Gurov, Vadim Gurov. Prepare John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u159	Vadim Gurov, Kriubas, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, my dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the problem that has been solved in Kryubas for decades and will eventually become an ecological disaster, but for the whole of southern Ukraine, it is the need to dispose of 180 million cubic metres of mine and career water, whose average mineralization is 30 grams per litre, and perhaps 100 grams, as in the Fatherland mine. This water accumulates at accumulation rates and tailpits and falls annually into the rivers of Saxagan and Ingulec, the tributaries of Dniper. This is a submerged area not only of Krivbasu but of the agricultural land of Dnipropetrovsk, Hersonsk, and Mikolai. Not to mention the other negative effects on ecology and the economy. All existing decisions that are technically complex, high-cost and intersectoral in the safe management of these waters. And unfortunately, systematically and at the right level, this problem is not being addressed by any government executive body. Only once a year has the Cabinet of Ministers been forced by the threat of watersheds breaking into the river with all the corresponding negative consequences. Then the work dies by next year. Our People's Party, the Block of Lithuania, clearly disagrees with this state of affairs. We insist on urgent solutions and active work to overcome the problem. Moreover, a number of experts have appropriate suggestions. The complexity of the problem requires, in our view, the establishment of an inter-ministerial working commission at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to coordinate, I stress, to coordinate the efforts of enterprises and governing bodies in various sectors of the national economy, research and project institutions, district councils and administrations. The state needs to take stock of the effects of these waters and lead the work from this position. At the same time, the financing of practical actions and the implementation of projects that have been implemented should be taken by owners of enterprises that are environmentally polluting, especially since virtually all mining and metallurgical enterprises in Krivbas are privatised. And it turns out that they own what makes a big profit and, in terms of economic problems, what they create, let the state decide. This is an unfair and proposed commission that should take this into account and find an acceptable solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u160	Ivan Boki. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u161	John Boki, the Socialist faction. I had to speak on a completely different subject, but since some statements were made in connection with Major Melnick’s arrival in Ukraine, I need to clarify some questions for our listeners. First and foremost. Major Melnichenko and Alexander Jeljaškević arrived in Ukraine at their own request and did not organize any political forces. That's the first one. The other one. They're self-sufficient people and they're not going to participate in any political party in the election. They came here with the sole purpose of giving a statement to the Attorney General, giving a statement to the investigating commission of the Supreme Council and telling the people of Ukraine about the theft of the Kuchma regime. All of it. You don't have to speculate on that anymore. And what Deputy Drachevsky said here today is that, for the second time, Major Melnick has been invited to a cassette scandal board meeting is evil because the commission made such a decision only yesterday. And when she was able to invite for the first time, God knew him. So I think we need to be calm here. Neither Major Melnichenko nor Alexander Jelyashevich hides from anyone. Yesterday they visited some state bodies, they were, in particular, on the Central Electoral Commission in the evening, because today or tomorrow the issue of the execution of the decision of the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Court on the renewal of Major Melnick in the lists of socialist parties in past parliamentary elections, that is, the possible membership of the Parliament. We know that the Central Election Commission is under pressure in this matter. We know that there is already a conspiracy in this room to prevent, let's say, one of the members of our faction and Major Melnick's membership in our Parliament as a national deputy of Ukraine if the Central Election Commission finally executes the rulings of the courts. And we know that, and we know who the organizers are. And here I have to say one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, it's not evil, it's understandable what you're afraid of. Many who are present in this room and in general in the Ukrainian politics are not afraid of detection at all because they are there. Many are not criminals. But they fear one another, see themselves in the mirror, see their own political and moral filthiness. That's why they're afraid of Major Melnick. And once again, you don't have to speculate about what you have. Major Melnickenka and Alexander Jeljaškević are honest citizens of Ukraine, they have sworn in this before justice and Ukrainian and American and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u162	Mikhailo Melniczuk, next Slabenko, gave his word to Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u163	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, Cherniewec region. Dear radio audiences, television audiences! Dear Adam Ivanovich and distinguished colleagues! A parliamentary week has passed, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has clearly proved to the Ukrainian people that we have stood up for in Parliament and will defend our budgetary requirements in 2006: adequate financing of the agricultural sector, local self-government, financing of the Children's War Act, health care of education, return of savings to Ukrainian citizens. With which I travel with my heart to the voters in Chernobyl, I realize that I have not been able to solve many issues and not clear on gasification, by giving up the cost of finishing school construction and kindergarten. But the parliamentary week was over. I'd like to tell you, your honor, the radio audience. We hear a lot of things after Melnick's return, about Alexander Frost and the Socialist Party. I'd like to tell all the Ukrainian people that this dirt will remain for those who want to translate it from themselves, let's talk about Alexander Frost or the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The people of Ukraine believe in Alexander Moroz, so they trust, so the Socialist Party is represented in Parliament today, and I am confident that the people will also be identified in the 2006 elections. Whoever's talking, the return of Melnick is his personal decision, he's back with Jeliaškević to open up again and give a witness to the Ukrainian people who were created by the Kuchma government. Today, socialists, we are initiating and returning to Ukraine of our Ukrainians: Bakaya, Bodelana, Scrabble, Drought, Lazarus, and others who fled Ukraine. Come back here, you reverend Ukrainians! Come back! Today we stand for the return of 7 million Ukrainians to Ukraine who have gone out to seek a better destiny. Today another state, let's build it together with the President, with the government, with the parliament, with the people of Ukraine. What are we afraid of? If these people come back and we say Melnichenko is a traitor, let's go. What do we have to say about those who went out on Midan? The generals, the officers, the Security Service, the IMF, the IRS, did they betray you, too? Are they traitors, too? So why aren't we talking about these people? There are no traitors to Ukraine. We returned, and we are ready to answer for everything that is happening in Ukraine in association with the Ukrainian people. And let's think about how to build up Ukraine, not how to pour dirt on each other. The frost and the party are socialistically clean in front of the Ukrainian people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u164	Lilia Grigorovich. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u165	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Chairman! Dear medical community of all Ukraine, doctors, medical staff of the younger, middle - class chain! Honorable Ukrainian citizens, to whom I wish only to be potential patients, and therefore my mother’s health! On November 29, medical personnel from all over Ukraine were under the walls of the Supreme Council. I want to express the position of the “Our Ukraine” faction, which not only understands and knows the problems of health workers, but may and may resolve them and explain why this is the case. We're doing this because an electoral campaign has started, and we don't know yet what kind of know-how and innovations are going to come up with some political force to attract or bury a lot of electric pie. But I would like to point out that today some national MPs are taking on the mission of such medical gurus or of the parents of Avicena in paws, leading the medical community somewhere in the wrong direction. So to avoid that, once again, I want to clarify and highlight the position of the faction "Our Ukraine" in terms of the state of the medical community, their social security and wages. Dear friends, what happened or the state of the medical community depends on two factors: the first is the State in the person and the executive and the legislative authority. Victor Yushchenko, president of Ukraine, works for 10 months. And in his speech on August 24, for the first time in 14 years, it was emphasized both the status of the medical worker and the field in general. We waited 14 years. But the legislative authority has not yet been the same one that has worked since 2002, and it is in the walls of this Parliament that the law on compulsory public health insurance has not been passed. The medical guru tried to say it was his law, but I want to tell you that in the year 98 in 2003, I passed this bill, and then some people painted it, signed it, published it for me. So the author of the bill, which has been passed repeatedly, is talking to you today, a respected medical community. In order to resolve the issue, it is also necessary to vote on a law on the status of medical institutions that has not been voted on in this room. This is about the legislative branch of power. We need a medical lobby in both the Ukrainian Parliament and in places of local self-government. And with regard to the medical community, I ask you, my friends, to be more active, not just in the unions, but in the medical self - government, because that's when the real voice of the person on the Ukrainian Health Guard will sound. Please don't be held hostage by the political forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin, Stepan the Cloud next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u167	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I want to draw attention to two events that are taking place in the Odessa region. The first is a rude, cynical disregard for the current legislation of Ukraine, which has been found in the construction of a car station in the city of Balta Odessa district, contrary to the ban on authorized control bodies, the prosecution's protest, the approval of the court. And the people in the city of Balta, who have an active public position, have set up an initiative group, they're going to court, they're going to all the institutions, but we're still going for the benefit of those who have a lot of money. Future ASAs are being built in the park area, part of the green plantations destroyed for the purpose of clearing the building site. The cynicism of designers who planned the AZS near the only cultural monument in the city of the House of Architecture, which is protected by the State and needs special care. Surprisingly, the district attorney’s office is unable to take steps to ensure the law’s requirements. That is why people no longer believe that the law will prevail. Even the ruling rendered on August 31 by the Baltic District Court of Justice, after considering the citizens ’ complaint of misconduct. State authority, and halted the construction of a gas station that was started in the district of Uvarova and Tkachenka in the city of Balta until the court's decision was essentially not carried out and the construction was continuing. And I'm asking, and I want to ask, please, my request is to consider the MP's question: when will the Attorney General's Office, when will the U.S. Attorney's Office set up order in the Odessa region, and the circle of the A.S. building will not spoil both our country and our houses of culture, and the trees? The second question I want to draw the attention of the Supreme Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, President Victor Yushchenk of Ukraine, is the question of the destruction of the Odessa Institute of Land Forces. Repeatedly, the national deputies from this rostrum were approached, and the committee's decisions were taken on security and defence issues to the President on the annulment of the disgraceful decision taken by the government of Yulia Timoshenko on the basis of the slanderous appeal of the Ministry of Defence for the annulment and withdrawal of the university. It's a tower that has a colossal history. God forbid that the time that must be spent to achieve the level of military training that is worthy of the respect of foreign nations should be a peaceful time. What if it's not? We're going to destroy this knot, and what are we going to have? We'll have nothing. And over those 60 acres of land on the Great Fountain in the center.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u168	Stepan Cloud. He will be followed – Bondarenko passes the word to Taran. [[Field]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u169	Stephen Cloud, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Chairman, our citizens! Many hear eclectics about privatization, including strategic objects. There was a great deal of promise to return the people to their homes. In addition to the “Criminals”, nothing has been returned. And bandits instead of prisons prepare for various columns to invade parliament and through Parliament to take over the full powers of executive power. I would like to draw your attention to an example of a robbery-related so-called privatization in the example of one of the very strategic objects, such as the Severerodonet Association of “Azot”. The business that was profitable and this is evidenced by only one figure: net profit in 2004 amounted to 210.4 million dollars, but artificial bankruptcy started. And on the small side, on October 25 of last year, the former head of the Luhansk district administration, Mr. Ephraim, is addressing a completely groundless letter to President Kuchma to allocate 60 percent of the so-called foreign investor to the so-called statutory fund. And on the same day, President Kuchma signs the Chechtov resolution: “I agree. To be carried out.’ Chechchev, on the basis of the criminal order of President Kuchma, gives an illegal order. By the way, it is only after this episode that criminal cases should be brought against both of them. But that's not happening. In due course, the courts recognized two institutions, in the first instance and the appeal, the illegality of these acts, and in addition, the Luhansk Procurator’s Office violated the criminal case for illegal privatization and appealed to the court for invalidity of statutory documents. Unfortunately, nothing is done. Moreover, recently, on the 23rd of this month, the Supreme Court annuls the previous ruling of the courts, which is very strange. Because even the representative of the Ministry of Prompolitans refused to allow this meeting. This is a strange position taken by the Holding Foundation. But a deputy like Mikola Rudzikowski performed miracles there in general, supporting the so - called investor, who is actually our compatriot from Mukachevo Alexander Ro.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u170	Victor Terrence. The black man passes the word to Stupaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u171	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear friends! Today, the same subject varies on television. What election blocks, who's in the first five. And we will learn, for example, that the human rights defender, Nina Karpachov, is in the fifth Regional Party. And now the question is whether it protects the rights of all Ukrainian citizens or protects only the rights of Kolesnik and other similar ones, but, in principle, it is indeed an election. It's very important. Because what the next Parliament is going to be, to a large extent, will be Ukraine. Nevertheless, as the Holy Scriptures say, Ukraine does not have one bread and not one choice. And in the epicenter of all our concerns must be man, his life. What's her pension, her salary, where to cure her? And as an example, it is very good that today our Parliament has discussed those financial sources from which people can be returned to their savings, and that is why the government should be concerned, not about elections, but about man. And so today we are criticizing Yehanurov, who, like Yanukovic, when traveling across Ukraine and aspiring for himself, today Yehanurov, at the time of the elections, is to go on vacation if we want these elections to be fair. And that's why the government should be worried, and I'm stressing once again for the man, not for the election. And that's why we didn't accept this budget because we don't see real social orientation in this budget. What's going on, fellas? Specifically, the government of Yulia Timoshenko has offered a number of clear programs for improving human life. First, it was an agrarian program where Julia Timoshenko predicted investing in the village, helping the village. Similarly, I recall that it was suggested that we solve the housing problem because it is cynicism and injustice when people still live in cartilages and empty homes, where apartments cost millions of dollars. And so was the road construction program. After all, look at what is happening on the roads in Kiev, other cities. And other than that, these are our transport corridors, these are the links between the west and the east, these are our transport sources and the financial ones, these are huge revenue to the budget. And that's why today's government action, today's budget, is like hitting holes. But at the same time, the government doesn't know what to sew, what to sew, and how to live? And we need to live up to the requirements of Maidan. Because the orange team, and especially Victor Yushchenko, and Julia Timoshenko, have to work together, like all of us, together. And we're absolutely convinced that that's what will happen after the election, because that's what people want, that's what Ukraine wants. And so our faction of Block Tymoshenko strongly insists that in the epicenter of all the concerns of the government today is man himself, because elections come and go, but man remains, his problems remain, Ukraine remains, which is not built in the future, not after the elections, but is being built today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u172	Vladimir Stupak, please. Ivancho gave the word to Zižko Sergija.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u173	Vladimir Stupak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Montenegro Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. With this statement, I would like to draw the attention of the society, the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office, to the situation that has arisen in the Ukrainian prosecutor's system. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, in addition to other functions, the prosecutor’s office should monitor compliance with laws. Instead, we can point out many facts about the inactivity of the prosecutor’s office. This is not only because there are hundreds and thousands of routine cases that have not been investigated so far, but also because hundreds and thousands of ordinary cases remain uninvestigated. There are cases where the public prosecutor's office doesn't respond to citizens' requests for two months. The Ukrainian People’s Party claims that the authorities of the Prosecutor’s Office often become a roof for criminal clans and groups. There is a circular message between the authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office at various levels. I want to give you a number of facts in the Chernigiv region. The Montenegrin Reich administration has filed 20 appeals to the Public Prosecutor’s Office regarding the abuse or inaction of the leaders of a number of businesses in the region, including. “Success” and. “Soyuz”. The Public Prosecutor’s Office does not respond or write off, covering for thieves and bribes. The district attorney's office covers the corruption and abuse of the Rector of the Chernigiv Institute of Economics of the administration of Mr. Borov. At the same time, the D.A. of Vasilevski County is already preparing for a promotion. He may even become the Attorney General’s deputy. Where were the cases of abuse by officials during the 2004 presidential election and forgeries investigated? It has become the norm for the Public Prosecutor’s Office not to respond to citizens’ requests, but only to write letters. Many of the good efforts of the executive branch are being broken down against the wall of the prosecutor's office, which remains to a large extent a protector of corrupts, thieves, instead of being a defender of the rule of law in the state. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party draws attention, the Ukrainian society, above all the President of our nation, the new Attorney-General, to this important issue, and also points to the need for serious personnel changes in the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u174	Sergey Zizko. To prepare, Cibenko passed on the word Anastasia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u175	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. A respected chairman, respected TV sets, and radio audiences. Comparing the 2006 State Budget project with the State Budgets of the previous two years, I drew attention to the funding of the International Children's Centre, Artek. For the following year, more than 30 million dollars are planned for the recovery and rest of children. In 2004 and in the fifth year, 19 million and nearly 30 million were planned accordingly. In addition, the budget was set for the reconstruction of Artek in the following year 10 million, and in 2003 the fourth year was set at 26 million. When I visited Artek this summer, I actually saw new buildings and buildings there, but I don't think their cost is worth a million dollars. The same is true of the cost of recovery, the rest of the children. What comes out of the budget can mean that either the journeys to Artek are sold partially, at tax prices, or in general their cost to some children is paid by the State. So I'd like to know what categories of children are resting in the Artek on extended terms. In Soviet times, Artek was part of the cult phenomenon because he was one of the symbols of the Soviet way of life, a visual demonstration of happy childhood in the country of councils. In those days the children of the three categories of the Artek were resting — the pioneer asset, the children of the Partosinomenclature, and foreigners. For the latter, Artek also performed another secret function, a study of potential human resources for the KGB. I don't think the BSC continues to practice its predecessors, but what's interesting is, do children who come to Artec from abroad pay the full cost of travel? And what is the share of foreign children in the total number of vacationers? I also want to ask you some questions about how Ukrainian children get to Artek in modern times. Are there free - selling routes? Are there clear criteria for the sale of travel on the basis of the benefits? Today, Artek no longer performs the functions for which it was created. Thus, the moral side of the matter is of particular concern. Does a country with nearly a hundred thousand homeless children have the moral right to spend the budget on maintaining an elite children’s camp? Would it not be more appropriate to transfer some of those funds to rehabilitation centers for homeless children? And one last question. Since Soviet times in Artec, there has been a rather specific state of permanent workers. Do they still exist? Are the Ukrainian children of “Artech ” protected from foreign influences? Is not Artek the bearer of ancient traditions? Is that where the educational work is conducted on national Ukrainian patriotic principles? Why not turn “Artek” into a permanent basis for the spread of modern, educational and educational technologies for the training of personnel for children's organisations such as “Plass”. Please consider my statement to the Minister for Youth, Culture, and Family. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u176	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. David’s next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u177	Anastasiav, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! Respectable residents of the capital! As the tender committees of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund have become aware, the Kiev City Resort has been completely removed. Ukrainian Trade Union Hospital. From the 2006 tender for sanatorium treatment of Kiev residents. That is, the Kievers will not enter this institution in 2006 on the journeys of the Social Insurance Fund. Noting that 23.11 the chief physician, the Deserved Doctor of Ukraine, Tkachev, made it clear that Kiev City Ballenology, a health institution is a sanatorium that works in the day care system. The reason for the exception was the fact that there was no room with rooms and no food. The Kiev City Medical Centre is the only such institution in Ukraine. Moreover, a unique treatment of more than 200,000 patients over 21 years of age. It uses more than 100 treatments and treatments. The institution is recognized by the leader of the Ukrainian sanatorium institutions and has a licence for the highest accreditation category of the Ministry of Health; it is a laureate of ratings; the leader of the 2004 sanatorium and resort institutions; the owner of the 2005 Golden Mercury; and a better company of 100 2005. This institution is not necessary for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, for the Social Insurance Fund. All management actions are transparent and clear why they are taking steps and measures. I appeal to the people of Kiev and state that, to the detriment of their health, they are trying to deprive them of treatment in a unique medical facility, to make 200 unemployed workers of the institution artificially prepare the institution for bankruptcy. Further action is envisaged. I appeal to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who is respected by Ivan Yakovlewich Sahanya, to avoid injustice, not to offend the elderly, not all the inhabitants of the capital, they do not deserve it. Institutions should be immediately included in the tender. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u178	Please, Sophia Davidov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u179	Dear Chairman! Deputies! Today I want to take another look at the problem that concerns me as a national MP from the 181 constituency, which is the 6 rural areas of the Kharkiv region. But most of all, it's a very painful problem for most rural people, it's the gasification of rural areas. Unfortunately, today we see that dozens, hundreds of rural areas, are not gassed. Not gassed separate streets in cities, district centers, city - type villages. The vast majority of rural people are pensioners, veterans, disabled people and participants in the Great Homeland War and have to buy natural gas and coal bubbles not only for heating homes but also for everyday needs – cooking, running households. What kind of apartments are they? Built 50, 40, 60 years ago. How much coal does it take to keep from freezing in winter? Does the pensioner have any extra money? Who will help these people who have worked hard all their years, protected our homeland, and rebuilt it during the postwar years? Our business is with you, the work of our government to help the villagers, and these are the same doctors who have to care for our health, not to think about how to survive the winter, are our teachers who have to teach our children, not to think about how to survive this winter. And they should eventually feel the concern of our nation. I have repeatedly addressed various government agencies, Ukraine’s prime ministers, finance ministers, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine’s management, with a view to paying attention to the state of gasification, helping people in part to solve the problem and to see in my home such a long - awaited blue light of natural gas. In response, I am informed that the gasification of population sites, streets, separate buildings is the prerogative of local authorities and is carried out according to the current order by cat budgets of all levels, interested organizations and local residents. This is the response of the head of the NAC “Naftogaz of Ukraine, ” Mr. Ichchenk of 1 / 04. 2005. On the one hand, it's the right thing to do. What about the other one? Local budgets are chronically underexpenditured to carry out the gasification of villages alone. Cost the locals. Whose money is that? These are the expenses of the pensioners who have stayed in the villages to live for their years. I get hundreds of letters from voters, appeals to MPs in the constituency, and the main question is, when will there be gas? It remains to be expected that in the current year, the State and Local Budgets will have a substantial increase in social expenditure, but it will end in 2005, and I would very much like to receive the funds that have been put in place for the gasification of rural areas in full order for people to know that the winter will be warm for them to have bread and live to spring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u180	Yes, dear colleagues, time is running out, but much is being asked. Then let's take two minutes. Please, Dragnibok, follow him then Hop and Kadenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u181	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! It's the second month. All month's notice from France reminds me of a coup d'état from the front. Gangs of settlers from North African and Asian countries plan to turn the streets of French cities into a hellish landscape. Dozens of shops, offices of authorities, schools, kindergartens, and even hospitals are the object of thunderstorms each night. The causes of the disturbance are the self-killing migration policy of France. Today Europe has also heard the first shots of racial and ethnic war. Automobiles were set on fire in Germany and Belgium. French events are to be a lesson for Ukraine, because today Ukraine is moving in a sad French way: it has abolished the term “nationality” in its passport, it has a large-scale company promoting cosmopolitanism and tolerance for everything. In fact, all but Ukrainians are protected in the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, every year, our nation is becoming an increasingly attractive city for illegal migrants, displaced persons, and various refugees from African and Asian countries. If the situation doesn't change, in the near future, we're facing a racial-ethnic uprising under the French scenario. I am indignant, and the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom and a statement recently made by the Chief of Administration of Odessa District Administration of Illegal Migration, Mr. Suprunowski, who proposed legalizing all illegal migrants in Ukraine. He's going to be taken care of at 3 p.m. today. Indignant is the situation around Hmelnicki, where they wanted to force some ten thousand Chinese into Ukraine to work there on a market that was to be built in the airport. We therefore demand an immediate increase in the protection of the state border, in the tightening of the deadlines for the adoption of anti-immigration legislation and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to carry out a comprehensive examination of the illegal issue of Ukrainian passports to illegal migrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u182	Yes, please, Stanislaw Strebko, behind him is Leonid Kadenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u183	Stanislav Strobko, 139th District, Odessa District, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, preconditions are being created for the elimination of the maritime security system in Ukraine’s waters. The Delta Lutzman complex control system combined several routes of maritime security in the area of responsibility of Ukraine. The designated national system has allowed effective control, when necessary, to take urgent action to save people at sea and provided the necessary information to Ukraine's Foreign Navy to ensure Ukraine's national security. In the interests of the State, it is necessary to continue to work towards further development and integration of the national system into the world's similar systems. In 1998, the government decided that a number of maritime security functions had been assigned to the state enterprise of the Mintrans. In time, the company became one of the leading maritime security systems in Ukraine. This was recognized not only by experts in our country but also by international experts. An enterprise that fills the State budget every year with up to 50 million dollars is now developing a system of liquidation and restructuring. Mintransweighing can be managed. irreparable damage to the state, creating preconditions for lowering the level of safety of navigation and leading to, among other things, an environmental disaster. In addition, this enterprise, as decided by the government, should ensure that the Ukrainian window is reproduced from Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u184	Thank you. Leonid Kadenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u185	.stopping work after completion. Resolution of the Meetings of the Public Discussion “The Problems of the Construction of the Dniestrovska GAES in the Three Agree”. The population of the region, the Novonistrovsk City and the rural councils are concerned about the possibility of halting the work after the completion of the construction of Dniestrów’s GAES. The results of the scientific analysis of the evaluation of the materials of the Dniestrovska GAES project, which was brought to the attention of the authorities, revealed that, in addition to the positive conclusions of the expert opinion on the projects of the official institutions, there were objections to the purpose of completing the construction of the station by individual public environmental organizations, such as the Green Gai and the National Environmental Centre of Ukraine, “Krona”. The introduction into operation of the aggregates of the Danestrowe Station is undoubtedly an important factor in the economic stability and energy independence of the State. This was repeatedly claimed by high - ranking workers when they arrived at the construction site. The daily station is an integral part of the projected GES and GAES cascade and the functioning of the active stations. Therefore, it also needs to be put into service. The operation of GAES will have a positive impact on the water temperature of the Dniester River, below. , as well as in the process of self-cleaning water because of its longer stay in the upper and lower waters of GAES. And in view of the above, the public discussion of the construction of the station is considered necessary: first, to express support for public policy in a direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-02-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to speak in different ways, took advantage of this opportunity, we will conclude. I would just like to pay attention, too bad that those who blamed the various mortal sins of the Supreme Council have gone. I repeat these accusations, absolutely groundless, all reports, all those who wanted to say something and report. Recently, we listened to the reports of the respective committees on the subject of loud affairs. All these accusations that someone is doing something wrong, you can see that there's only one thing wrong with the house where these accusations are coming from. I'm informing you that we are working with you in committees, factions and groups on December 5-9. The next meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on December 13th, the day of the government, where we will consider two issues: the state and prospects of protecting the cultural heritage of Ukraine and, secondly, the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
