ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:31]] The 402 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov participates in our work, as well as the government's present members invited. Let's welcome the Prime Minister. The heads of district councils, Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils were also invited. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Alexander Mikolaiovich Karpov and Vladimir Ivanovich Mazurenko. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them good health. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, information on the results of Ukraine's work. on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on 30 November 2005. Ten questions of the agenda have been considered. Four laws were passed, four bills were adopted on a basis, one bill was designed to be redrafted, and one draft decree was rejected. Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sigal Yevgen Jakovitch, into the party's “One Ukraine”. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Leonidovic, into the composition of the Party's parliamentary faction “Region of Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Order on the appointment of a member of the High Council of Justice is now under review. Is Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko there? Then let me tell you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting on November 30, 2005, the nomination of Eudemimov Valerija Aleksandrovitch for appointment as a member of the High Council of Justice. This proposal was made by factions and groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee supports the candidature of Eudemimov and recommends that the Supreme Council elect him as a member of the Council of the High Council of Justice. So I would like to ask Valery Mishur to make an appropriate announcement on the preparations for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Members of the Counting Commission, please: Kafarsky, Fomenko, Assadcheva, Hinzburg, Grzezheva, Carmazina, Kostinuk, Mother, Manchulenka, Mirimsky, Nadrag, Ryabik, Sitnika, Sobolev, Crnovola, Chickanova and Shevchuk in five minutes to meet in the Hall of Meetings on the third floor of this tower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the commission will hold its meeting, prepare the ballots, and, apparently, during the break, at 12 o'clock, we will perform an act of voting. The question is about the election of national deputies to the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the committee considered a statement by Ukrainian National Deputy Kobec Olga Semenovna, member of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko, on the re-examination of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of her as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Taking into account the repeated appeal of the National Deputy and its desire to work on the Committee noted, the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council decided to support the application of the People's Deputies of the Women's Republic of Olga Semenovna and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return to the consideration of the draft Decision on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Women as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u5	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Ukraine's national deputy Kobec Olga Semenovna as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights, national minorities and inter-national relations is announced. Registration number 8466, please vote. [[10:10:29]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's meeting of the Committee has also considered a recommencement of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Marchenka Alexander Volodymyrovich, who is not a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement. Based on the fact that the calculated quota for representation on the Committees of National Deputies of Ukraine, which are not part of any parliamentary factions or parliamentary groups, is 1.4, and this committee, today, has two non-fractional national deputies, i.e. the quota, practically used, the committee has decided not to support the Marchenka People's Deputy's Committee's application to elect its member on the issue of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u7	Honourable National MPs are voting for the election of Marchenk Alexander Volodymyrovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement. Please vote. [[10:12:17]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now consider a draft Supreme Council regulation on parliamentary hearings on the state of housing and other guarantees for the social protection of military personnel, persons in charge and the ranks of internal affairs bodies and some others. The point is that the draft decree, which has been passed, envisioned the holding of parliamentary hearings on November 30. We need to figure out the date. So we, Alexander Markovich, need to figure out the date. We already have parliamentary hearings scheduled for November-December. We have a hearing in December. We have to look at January of the month. Then we must carry them for January. And we won't do anything, the budget will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u8	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Law Enforcement took up the proposal of the National Deputies of Moses, Suprun, Kruczkov, Bandurka to hold parliamentary hearings on the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, the primary and military composition of internal affairs bodies and some other persons with the aim of solving one of the most difficult problems: housing and other guarantees for military personnel, the primary and regular composition of internal affairs bodies and some others. The Committee on Law Enforcement, the Committee on National Defence and Security support the proposal and propose, taking into account the fact that the Ministers of the Interior of Ukraine, the Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Protection of Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine have submitted appropriate concerns to the Head of the Supreme Council. It is suggested that, taking into account the above-mentioned and acute problem of housing for military personnel, veterans, internal affairs officials and their related categories, raise questions at parliamentary hearings in January about providing housing for military personnel and law enforcement personnel, which will allow for a thorough analysis of all the components of the problem and find the best way to address them. A group of deputies has drafted a law that allows, if adopted, to dramatically improve the housing of military personnel and their counterparts. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u9	The draft Ukrainian Parliamentary Hearing Order is submitted to the vote in January 2006 with the agenda “On the condition of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, persons in charge, the military composition of internal affairs bodies and some others”. Registration number 8350. Please vote. [[10:16:23]] For 287 I'll take the order. Honourable National Deputies, the issue under consideration is the report by Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov of Ukraine on the problems of Ukraine's socio-economic development in the current year and the forecasting of Ukraine's further development for 2006. Such rules of procedure are proposed. For a report, give the Prime Minister of Ukraine up to 30 minutes. For answers, within 30 minutes. To discuss the report, i.e. for statements by authorized representatives of MPs and factions, 45 minutes. The Prime Minister's closing word is in three minutes. Consider and make a decision on this matter. Is there no other offer? Do we agree? I invite you to the rostrum of Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. One minute, Yuri Ivanovich, one minute. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u10	Vladimir Mikhailovich, given that many people gathered at the Supreme Council today, asked to include a broadcast into the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u11	No objection, dear colleagues? Please, Secretariat, set up a broadcast. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, respected colleagues. A little over two months have passed since the Supreme Council agreed to my appointment as Prime Minister of Ukraine. After final formation, the government focused its work on stabilizing the economy, creating conditions to ensure its steady growth. Such growth was seen as a necessary prerequisite for a real increase in the material well - being of our fellow citizens. For two months, it's a short deadline to substantiate even the midterms of the new Cabinet of Ministers. Realizing that the government and parliament should cooperate, I view the regular reports in Parliament as perfectly normal. Ready every week, Thursday, to report every week of work, every decision. But I want us, honourable colleagues, to agree that, in our view, this report is a working procedure that has been adopted in many parliaments, not a pear action for a better prosecution of the executive branch of power. So using aviation terms, I report to Parliament. We're going to take off. There are, of course, problems that we have discussed openly at a recent meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, with the participation of the Chief of the Supreme Council, committee leaders, parliamentary groups and factions. At this meeting, we summarized the state's economic and social development in 9 months of the current year and identified urgent measures and tasks to improve the economic situation. In view of the criticism and thinking, including the representatives and the leadership of the Supreme Council, an open government decree was adopted. Anyone who wants to get to know her is on the Cabinet of Ministers' website. Yet, perhaps someone would like to hear a lively answer to the principle of the question. Where are the crises? Where are the other grains, gasoline, meat, sugar crises? I'm forced to upset my colleagues -- there's no crisis and there's no foresight. The policy of stabilizing production based on the active interaction of power and entrepreneurship, encouraging the full payment of taxes, legalizing wages solely on the legal approach to property management is initiated by today’s government, and improving the efficiency of government ownership over business regulation already yields its first obvious benefits. The Ukrainian economy has calmed down and demonstrated signs of recovery: social programs are being implemented in full volume, preconditions for economic growth have been developed, the trend has been overcome to reduce the rate of gross domestic product growth, in September and October with a cumulative calculation first year they remain unchanged as in August at 2.8 percent, and before that, they fell at 0.5 percent per month. In most areas, output is increasing at a two-digit rate: in the production of wood and wood products in 10 months 2005 compared to the corresponding period in 2004, they reached 18.8 per cent, in the food industry - 14.4, paper and pulp industry - 13, construction and glass industry - by 12.9, in the chemical, oil and chemical industry - by 10.2. The economy is overcoming the effects of a conjunctural reduction in external demand: metallurgy, in September production, increased by 5.3 in October, by 5.7; metal ore production by 2.7 and 4.7 percent, respectively. The sale of the flag of the country’s metallurgy, the “Cruvoristal” combination, has simultaneously solved a number of urgent problems, accelerated economic development. The interest in Ukrainian industrial assets from foreign investors grew, and there was reason to increase the circulation of national securities. The motivation for transparent and profitable activities of businesses that remain in the hands of domestic owners has changed. Additional impulses have been given competitive rules in the interaction of market participants, and what is particularly important is inter-sector competition. There has been a marked increase in non-taxable sources of fiscal revenue that will allow the country to restructure the economy structurally and to pursue active social policies and not only increase tax pressure but also move on to a gradual decline. An undeniable fact is the country’s exit from the investment gap caused by the political uncertainty of the beginning of the year and the subsequent reprivatization rhetoric. If the net increase in foreign direct investment in the second quarter decreased by 28 percent compared to the corresponding period in 2004, it exceeded the previous level by 2.3 percent in the third quarter. Overall, the dynamics of total investment in capital reflect the formation of favourable conditions for the economic development of the country in the near future. Dear National Deputies! The government has a balanced macroeconomic policy that ensures the mobilization of resources in the budget for the performance of the functions of the State, such as inflation control, a positive balance of payments and the exchange rate of the national monetary unit. We are clearing the economy from fictitious exports, illegal VAT compensation, the vast majority of smuggling imports, and many under-taxation schemes. I want to let you know that, for example, in November of the month, in the plan for the return of VAT, one billion 78 million, the return of 1.8 billion. That's right. We're completely clearing this zone of corrupt influence. Almost 100% of the government budget's revenue growth plan is being implemented. In 10 months, 51.6 percent, including a total fund of 69.2 percent. I'm going to report to the Supreme Council that the revenue figures for the State Budget were carried out in November. Tax revenues increased by 56.7 percent in 10 months. Taxes related to the process of detining the economy were increasing at an earlier pace. In particular, the value added tax has doubled, and the income tax has doubled, including government taxes of 1.6 times. On 3.9 occasions, government enterprises have increased their revenue to the Budget. 5.3 times, dividends on shares or pies of the state in equity companies. It is estimated that the country’s state budget has been drawn up with a surplus of 2.3 billion. This is 0.7 percent of GDP, while in 2004 there was a 6.4 billion deficit. By the end of the year, the government will ensure the implementation of the approved State Budget for Income and Expenditure and will keep the deficit within the defined limits of up to two percent of GDP. At its last meeting, the government adopted a series of positions that complete our relations with the regions, as well as with the ministries and departments of debt, which were before the government for the financing of capital expenditure. The macroeconomic policy of the Cabinet of Ministers was geared towards supporting the National Bank's actions in the area of monetary policy. The remanetization of GDP turnover and its accelerated saturation with credit money create favourable conditions for investment and the accumulation of the necessary productive resources. The government restored the direction of inflation processes, and in September, consumer price increases were almost three times higher, and in October 2.4 times lower than last year. More than twice as much as 10 months of 9.3 to 20.3 percent in 2004 leave the price increase of industrial producers behind. The government's social doctrine is based on understanding that high social standards should be based on a dynamic growth of the economy while at the same time stimulating such growth. Creating premeditations and restoring the production of gross domestic product and gross added value in the main budgetary activities allowed not only to continue the implementation of large-scale social programs but also to move them to new frontiers. The basic government minimum guarantees are close to the subsistence minimum. Real steps have been taken to increase this basic social standard of minimum wage and minimum pension. The government has started to develop a set of measures aimed at creating economic and legal conditions for the legalization of wages, increasing income and increasing the economic activity of the population, reducing its spread at income levels. Among such measures are the following: Legislative introduction of minimum hourly wages as a state social standard. Reducing the burden on the pay fund by redistributing payments and congregations between employers and employees. Eliminating the imbalance in inter-employment, inter-sectoral pay ratios for budget workers. Involvement of necessary investments in production and human capital The creation of new jobs, the protection of the right of workers to pay full and timely wages, and the repayment of the accumulated debt. Reinforce middle-class positions. The first steps of the government in this direction are prepared and submitted to the President of Ukraine for approval of the President's decree to approve a strategy to improve the social pay system for the population. The strategy for the further development of the pension system is currently under way. Its aim is to identify the orientations and stages of the further development of the pension system, to take steps to ensure financial stability of the financial system, to restore the functioning of the insurance principles, to review and identify the steps taken to implement the mandatory and cumulative pension system and to improve the effectiveness of the non-state pension scheme. Once again, I would like to emphasize that all pension payments are made at the proper time, and we are paying attention to the technical problems that sometimes arise in the regions, and by the time the local authorities are responsible, the pension will be delayed. And we also want to work with you on a system that we already have next year on the big deficit that we have today in the Pension Fund, which is now known to be 20 billion dollars for the next year and which we are forced to pay off from the State Budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not promise a breakthrough. We are confident of the gradual but confident move forward, starting in the first months of the following year. The active steps in reforming the economy should be a guarantee of restoring the confidence of the population, domestic and foreign investors in government policies. Creating an enabling environment for investing in the Ukrainian economy and a stable political situation in the country will stimulate increased growth in direct investment, foreign investment. The recognition of Ukraine as a market-economy country will allow negotiations to be stepped up to remove mutual restrictions in international trade with the major trading partners. This will lead to increased exports. We expect that today we will be declared a market economy country of the European Union. The legal process will take place during January of the following year. I think that the procedures that are now going on in the united states of America will also give us an opportunity in January, early next year to also get this status from the United States. Overall, a relatively high growth rate of 7% of real gross domestic product is projected in 2006. You have these figures in the tables. Domestic demand will remain a major factor in economic growth. An increase in population demand will take place on account of the further increase in minimum wage, social assistance, and minimum retirement rates, in line with the change in living minimum. As a result, real income will increase by 9.8%, average monthly earnings by 11.9%. In line with the pace of demand growth, the supply will increase. The growth in industrial production by 9.5% will be determined by the increase in production volumes, the machine-building industry by 18%, the food industry by 16, the chemical and the oil industry by 9% and 3% by metallurgy. In addition to the growth of the economy, there will be a positive trend in the labour market. When it comes to the methodology of calculating unemployment by the International Labour Organization, it is projected that the unemployment rate will decrease to 7.5% and the economically active population between 15 and 60 years of age, with an increase to 21.2 million people employed by economic activity. Of course, the following year, there are also many problems that will be weighed down and the political factor is elections to the Supreme Council. However, we are confident that the implementation of government plans will ensure economic growth, and our citizens will soon experience a real improvement in their material well-being. The experience of my work in the Supreme Council shows that it consists of enough national deputies set up for constructive cooperation. I am addressing you, honourable national MPs, the government ready for cooperation and ready to extend the hand of everyone who wants to work together to help raise Ukraine. Today is a great day in the history of Ukraine: we are celebrating the 14th anniversary of the referendum, the referendum in which we declared Ukraine's independence and elected our first president at this time. I welcome you to this anniversary and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's report is complete. Please sign up for the question. Yeah, it's recording. Yes, on the board, please. Sergey Chickanov, Communist faction. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u14	Please give the floor to the MP Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u15	George Ponomarenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u16	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Yuri Ivanovich, now under the walls of the Supreme Council are representatives of local self-government. Today, at seven o’clock, they held their congregations on the Main Day of Independence. If it's us. They ask: if we are doing as well as you said, why are only 10 percent of the local budgets planned for 2006 for municipal services, and all the rest for wages. Why this year the gasification of rural areas from 450 million to 116 million has been made available. Say it. The answer to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u17	I met with representatives of local authorities yesterday, the Association of Cities. And we were talking about the situation that came up with the budget. We're ready to make changes to the budget within, the main issue is the size of the deficit. We are ready to compromise on this issue. We need to be clear so that we don't go beyond the budget deficit. So I think that when we look at the budget issue, we're going to answer that question in more detail. It's about the total cost. So I could say that 20 billion, I've already said, to the State Budget Pension Fund, and they're usually very serious about the state budget spending. And by gasification. So we're going to have as much gas as we're going to have. We've sent 36 million turns to the region. We're going to give it all back to what's set out in the Ukrainian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u18	Gennady Samofalov, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u19	Gennady Samofalov, Party of the Regions, faction “Regions of Ukraine”. Yuri Ivanovich, you have very well stressed today that today is the most important day in the history of our Power, the day of independence. Today, however, this has caused neither excitement nor applause. Why? Because Ukrainian citizens were counting on a good, beautiful life better than it was. Unfortunately, that did not happen. And that's especially true today for the reserve officers. It's a million-dollar army of citizens of our Power. This is the day before yesterday Vladimir Mihajlovich held a meeting with 47 public organizations with officers. The first problem is housing. At this rate that is now budgeted, it takes at least 50 years or 100 years, you know. Second problem. Today, families who have lost their breadwinner in the line of duty are not paid, nor are they pensioned. The third problem is the provision, financing or monetary satisfaction of emergency soldiers. Please tell me why the budget you are presenting today does not raise these issues harshly, and how should it be in terms of public policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u20	Thank you. With regard to the cost of maintaining our army. I would like to respond in this way. Unfortunately for the larger part of it, we have the structure that we are now making 1.2 times more money on the pension than on the monetary satisfaction of our army. This is an important issue that we must consider very carefully. It has happened that today we have military pensioners as a legacy of having a million, more than a million, armies in our country, plus our own citizens who have served in the Soviet Union in various regions. It's really a problem and it's solved immediately, with one stroke, as you can see, for 14 years, it's not working. But what's going on is, you see, we practically raised the Ministry of Defence by 1.3 times. There's one question I'd like to take you on as allies. We have 420 military cities. We suggest that these military towns be a separate programme to address the issue of housing for the military. I have considered this issue carefully in the Government and have already held the necessary meetings. Believe me, I worked in housing for 24 years. Now, First Deputy Prime Minister Staszewski, Minister of Defence and Local Authorities, we are working on a mechanism to make these cities a contribution on behalf of the military to construction. And now we are working on this topic. In the coming month, we will propose a mechanism for how we can make a real exit to housing, to make a breakthrough. Here we work very actively and look forward to the support of those in Parliament who represent the interests of the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u21	Basil Nadrag, People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u22	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, you said you were a builder, here's God, but back to what you've already said about capital investments in gasification. I've got a big one in Luhansk. This problem is funded by 10%. I'd really like you to tell me when the money is coming. Because if they come on December 25th, the Treasury will take them down, and they're addicted, and today the people have a lot of problems. That's one question. Yuri Ivanovich, and if possible, yet. Here you have, and rightly said, your representatives, working on both the Budget Committee and everything else, asked very often this question. We have no contact with the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers in the adoption of laws. But unfortunately, both in this room and in the meeting of the relevant committees, there are ministers, but this is a big exception, the first loans are going, and often, just the traps, come the heads of the chapters. I mean, I'm addressing you as Prime Minister, please solve the problem that when there's a discussion of the relevant laws. Let the first person come who is able to say the final, competent things, take over.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u23	Vasily Ivanovich, on gasification. Another 36 million were sent yesterday. We can only direct as much as it comes in this account. And I promise you that we will normally calculate all the weather with regard to the lack of conflict between laws and ministers. This criticism is absolutely fair. But my respectable colleague Vassili Ivanovich, with whom I have worked three years in parliament. Well, imagine, the minister came to his office two months ago, let him handle the farm a little bit, go to his main businesses, but take care of it. I recognize that we are not sufficiently working at the ministerial level and the Prime Minister with Parliament. But, you know, the topics that each autumn in the Government needs to address are simple, we have to work out the issues of preparation for winter, gas issues, you know how the budget goes, and finally, the budget. I accept your criticism and I promise you now. A little bit of budget work will be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u24	Faction, Vladimir Stretović, faction “Our Ukraine”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u25	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, is part of the “Our Ukraine” bloc. Yuri Ivanovich, there is a great deal of budget stress in the country today. You said very carefully that we're going to take the wages out of the shadows and stop paying them in envelopes. I would ask you, as an expert, please explain to the people of Ukraine what it means to get a salary out of the envelopes into a clean plane, which will give us for the budget, how much will we get for social pay, and what does the people of Ukraine lose from getting 100 dollars in information for another 500 dollars in envelopes? If this is possible, please share your experience as you did in the Dnipropetrov region, and what did this bring to your first month of government there?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u26	Thank you. The question of pay, its coming out of the shadows, is one of the most painful in Ukraine. The only reason we don't have a pension fund is because if we take the level of retail in the country and the amount of money that we issue in terms of salaries and pensions and other benefits, it turns out that we have much more of that turnover. When I arrived in the Dnipropetrov region, I saw that the level of retail trade was slightly higher than in Donetsk and the population was one and a half times smaller and the wages were lower than in Donetsk. So a number of measures have been taken that we now want to make all over Ukraine, and that's what happened. Now, what concrete actions. First of all, we want to oblige all business leaders, entrepreneurs, that the wages should not be below the minimum, is everyone’s duty. Only by this factor will we be able to increase the income of the Pension Fund to at least 10 percent per region. That's true. On the other hand, we are now doing an explanatory work to ensure that the wages are not below the minimum wage. And finally, of course, there are still topics of a comparative analysis of wages. We did two weeks ago an analysis of what salary in Ukraine's online stamps. The difference between 250 and 900 dollars goes, although everyone understands that the average wage is virtually the same. Now we're going to do the right thing. I would very much like to ask you, honourable national deputies, along with the government in this matter to help us. People need to be made clear that this is their future pension. And finally, these are the numbers in the pension system that we have to make personalized calculations for each person. So a person steals from his old age when he doesn't get real wages. I hope we can work together with you in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u27	Yes, Vladimir Korge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u28	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Zubov Valentina Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u29	Valentin Zubov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u30	Thank you, Vitalia Trochymovich. Valentin Zubov, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I have three questions for you. First, all the numbers that are budgeted for what gas price, for a thousand cubic meters, 60 dollars or 150 dollars, how is this planned on the Russian side? Second: do you, Yuri Ivanovich, that what would be the budget if it were executed by such officials as the acting head of “The Naftofbaz of Ukraine” Mr. Yvchenko, would not be executed? Ivchenko went to Turkmenistan, an international scandal, to Russia, an international scandal. Why are you holding him still? And the third question is, how do you plan on going to the election as Prime Minister? If you go to the election on the NSO list.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u31	As far as gas prices are concerned. The gas prices are the ones we signed with our main instructors. There is now, let's say, an unforgivable complex process, a negotiation process with the Russian Federation, with Gazprom, and with Turkmenistan. And our Ukrainian delegations are headed by the Minister of Energy of Plachkov. “ Ukraine’s Naftogaz ” is now under the Ministry. I have submitted to the President the appointment of First Deputy Minister and Head of Naftogazu. Thus, economic activity and public activity will be divorced. I think we'll talk about the election later. There are no official decisions today. The gas is still worth the figures that the distinguished MP Zubov called.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u32	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u33	Thank you. Please give my word to my colleague Leonid Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u34	Leonid Vernigore. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, tell us honestly what the children of war have done to you, who have been reborn, who have been building the “Criminal” and you do not give a penny to pay. Reimbursement payments to children of war. They are. You know what this is about. And why don't you want to do it yourself? That's the first question. And the second question. For the first time in the history of our Ukraine, the children of the revolution will not be able to bring children’s gifts home. First time. I repeat, for the first time in your life. So you've started as Prime Minister, that parents will come to New Year's and don't bring gifts to children! You forbid it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u36	You're banning the Social Insurance Fund from paying for these gifts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u37	I have a great request, distinguished national MPs. I understand you're asking questions all over Ukraine. You won't give the children of war money because they're gone. And I won't. Along with you. If there's money, let's divide. Where are the 14 billion? Where are we going to get them? Shall we? We'll find you in a week, lady. The second question is about children’s gifts. You're absolutely right. At the last government meeting, we discussed this issue. All my life, I remember this gift that he's always been under a tree, from the unions. What was written in May during the CRU's inspection. That's true, it's written. Now we have to get out of this situation. We made the right decision, I gave a protocol order. I'm asking you, distinguished leaders of the trade unions, I'm asking you, Your Honor, I'm addressing all entrepreneurs, and we're going to have to make district administrations, we're all going to work. Each child should receive a gift. And we'll find the sources. There can be no such thing. There's a tradition, it's going to be done. That's what. Well, let's write it down! Now I think about how to cut off what's written! But it's written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u38	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u39	Stephen Cloud, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, today several thousand farmers — producers of agricultural products — have gathered near the walls of Parliament. You realize that these are the people of work and have been driven here, as it were, by the desperate situation that today has been created in the agro-industrial sector. Your predecessors have promised so much, but other than promises, virtually nothing has been done, and things are getting worse. We'd like to know what you promise and what kind of software you have in order to fix the situation in one of the basic sectors of our economy -- agriculture. The Ukrainian People's Party requires at least two and a half billion dollars for grants to be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u40	Dear Stephen Ilkovich! The requirements are just. But we need to look at the processes that are taking place in agriculture today. In Ukraine 77 percent of the land is leased, concentration is under way, and there is a problem with the mechanism of distribution of these benefits and subsidies provided by the State today. Around this mechanism, the main questions are: Where is the money going? And one day it turns out that this tiny farmer -- this money really doesn't come to him. I've been doing this a lot lately, working in the area. One thing I can say is that the question of two and a half is, look at what number to call, well, I mean, there's a lot of, uh, subsidies to be given. We're taking, there's three directions that are now going to be followed by work that the government is going to be looking for a compromise with the Committee on Budgets: this is an agro-industry issue, this is a matter of local authorities, and this is a question of coal industry, we have to end the problems that there is. Stepan Ilkovich, there will be decisions, we. I can't give you a number right now, because this is going to be the subject of the negotiation process and the overall balance of the numbers, but I heard you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u41	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u42	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Yuri Ivanovich, I understand that when the President of Ukraine says something in the presence of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister is silent, it means that it is true. You were silent in Maidan when the president of Ukraine said that corruption in the state began with the doctor's office. I spoke to the President of Ukraine yesterday to apologize to the doctors, and I appeal to you: from the rostrum to apologize to the doctors for such a disgraceful phrase, the doctor's office begins his life, he's born, he's protected there, and he's given again. And now the question is essentially what needs money. Please tell me, when will the payment of medical workers be made on the basis of a single full-scale tariff network and when will the disgraceful discrimination of medical workers cease, that their salary is not equal to the average in Ukraine? Once again, the constitutional right to decent pay is violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u43	I declare that doctors, your colleagues, the distinguished national deputy Shurma, are honest people and that they work for the benefit of Ukrainian people. The second is more difficult with regard to pay. The subject is what? Raised up one category, the issue of raising the wages of another category is immediately raised. We are now ready to sit and talk to Parliament, with the Committee on Budgets, with the Committee on Social Policy on Budget Wages, but within the total amount. Let's make a deal, so far, let me be clear, the numbers that are in the demands of the medics that our minister has met, we can't provide within our budget process. Although we could provide other articles that should be circumcised, some laws are said to be stopped. There's a problem. I'll admit it. We'll decide it together in the next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u44	Gregory Bondarenko, please, People's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u45	Gregory Bondarenko, Block of the National Party of Vladimir Lithuania Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I am addressing you as the last instance: do you know that in Kiev, in particular in the Voddar region, and not only in it, the heads of the village council do not receive a salary for 3-4 months, and in the city of Fastov, the medical union created a strike due to the lack of pay? All these questions I've referred to the Ministry of Finance. Reaction is zero. I would ask you to get acquainted with this appeal and accept it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u46	Thank you. There is a problem in the Kyiv region called the “seventy million problem”. The head of the district government asked the government to solve the problem. The thing is, it was a budget error this year. We'll decide now. Dear national MPs, I just want to say, really, a difficult problem, and it is, and the Kyiv area in this case, judging from the first analysis that took place, is basically a right. Therefore, we will immediately consider these questions. And the second subject. So they're in the agenda right now, we're looking at them. And the second subject. I'd like to report that the Supreme Council's decree on wages to the heads of rural, village councils, city heads, we're now checking how it's being implemented now, in October-November, because it's being implemented in nine months. We will now check and give a written report, another written report to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u47	Mikola Porovski, a member of the “Trust of the People” group.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u48	Mikola Porovski, Republic Christian Party Mr. Prime Minister, I have asked you about the need to develop a programme to reduce gas consumption and replace Russian and Turkmen gas with peat, transfer of blacksmiths to energy-burning straws that will stimulate agriculture. For the time being, please refer to Kozlovska, as well as to the group “Trust of the People”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u49	Please, Kozlowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u50	Dear Yuri Ivanovich. Anatoly Kozlowski, Mikolayevščina, 133 constituency. The government report is certainly a political decision. And there's an election coming up, and that's why every MP wants to win political dividends. I think that in two months and in a rusty cologne, which is a thousand years without produce, you can't figure it out, and in Ukraine like ours, in two months, I think the government has done a lot. What did he do? That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u51	It's all clear. Yeah, colleagues, about the peat and the straws I can tell you. This is about alternative sources. The point is that we have invested in the budget a substantial amount of energy savings. I am grateful to those national deputies. There are a few people who are actively working in this direction. We are truly grateful to them. And we understand well that it can't be that a country that has 20 to 25 percent of its own energy supply has spent almost all of it, in Europe, exactly more than all of it, on a unit of gross domestic gas and energy. It's an abnormal phenomenon. We'll work in this direction. And sometimes I want to say something. We are now running a system that would allow a significant increase in oil and gas production in our country. We're going to make the Ministry of Nature use such a system that all documents are said to be in one place. So that you can get a license to work right away. And this job is going to be very active right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u52	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, Party “Reforms and Orders”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u53	A very famous man, a representative of the capital democracy, Vladimir Bondarenko, is very much asking me to open up access to the Prime Minister and so he asks that I can't refuse. Please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u54	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u55	Dear Yuri Ivanovich, you may know that the Yanukovich government is using such a financial fund, tax evasion in 2004, that is, the local authorities encouraged tax evasion to instigate the muscles of the then Kabmin, to show its financial ability, and to be counted today. Do you know that Kyiv overpaid nearly a billion dollars at the time, and today the Cabinet of Ministers and the new President of Kiev City authorities are calling for the return of this money. And do you know that at the time of the overpayment, the city of Kyiv was given 14 apartments. I think it's the 14th Ministry of Finance. Can you not see here the fact of corruption or some conspiracies between the then Minfin and the Kiev city authorities?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u56	I think it's a legal conflict, really, it's gone far and we need to solve this problem. In principle, I don't like it very much, and this whole system of relationships that is today between the center and the region and the center and the capital. And between the capital and the regions, by the way. This will be the subject of a separate conversation. As long as we're talking, I can honestly tell you, it's not working. It's just the pressure of the city's unions and so on. I think we'll find a compromise solution there in the near future. Regarding taxes and flats, I wrote down. I got it. We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u57	Orest Dmitrovich Klimpus, “The only Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u58	Thank you. Orest Klimpus, “One Ukraine” faction, Zacarpathia. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, you know what great work needs to be done in Zakartat to eliminate the floods of 98-2004. At the same time, no funds were allocated for these jobs in 2005. And today, due to the debt of previous operations, Rakhivsky and the Inter-Igor Reservoir accounts have been blocked. Please tell me, what and when will the government do to unlock these accounts and to account for the work done? How much are you planning, will we really be planning for 2006, we don't see any funds to eliminate these flood damage? I will be grateful for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u59	Thank you, Oreste Dmitrovich. If the funds are not planned, how can I now promise you that they will be allocated? It's, you know, as a national MP, you're going to ask me about the purposeless use of funds. Regarding the next year’s budget. In general, we're proposing, honourable national MPs, during the process, perhaps yesterday when we met with the Association of Cities and Villages of Ukraine, we talked about giving decision areas to where to direct such expenses objectively. I'm not going to say that this is perceived well by the ministries, but we're ready to go to some decentralization of these expenses right now. And then the local authorities will determine where to spend the money first. Well, Oreste Dmitrovich, I've written down the question, and I'm sure I'll discuss the situation with the head of the district government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u60	Ivan Mikhailovich Bastriga.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u61	Dear Yuri Ivanovich, perhaps today 50 percent of the questions you were given concern gasification. The opposition area now has 13 percent of the gasification of villages. The budget for 2005 is 16 million. The fact is that about 30 percent of the population has gone down. Can you guarantee that we tell the builders: take credit in banks, government funds, and you as Prime Minister guarantee that they will be returned by January 1st?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u62	Ivan Mikhailovich, your letter went to work, then you handed it to me. As far as gasification is concerned, I can say, within the limits of the funds that will come to the special account. I've already told you that we've distributed 36 million now. By the end of the year we expect more, of course it will be much more, this is the end of the year, the final calculations are coming. You're right about what people need to know exactly how much money they're going to get. And so from your question, I'm going to draw that conclusion, we're going to have to inform every district government that's going to be the level of funds and what we're going to have to count on by the end of the year. We'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u63	Bogdan Kostinuk, National Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u65	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u66	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Yuri Ivanovich, my question is on the table, and I want to ask this question easily. I know that the government really works without excessive noise, pragmatically, calmly, and results can be seen. Please tell me, do you plan on taking all your load along with the government on a slide, or do you cook slides and paws?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u67	You know, I understand all these questions. I'd like that, dear colleagues. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm done, right? So, dear colleagues, I want to say, the task of the government is to work calmly so that every citizen is confident that it will be a normal winter, that we will meet the New Year. I was in Slovakia, people are already thinking, no gas that costs much more, they're thinking about the tree, they think about what should be on the holiday table -- people should be thinking about these things. It's the government's job to do whatever it takes to make it okay. And the task of our government, so historically, has been to bring the economy to a new government after the parliamentary elections, so that the normal state of the economy is in our country. That's what we're working on. Well. And pear shares. The best pyar action is the government's effective work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u68	Oleg Petrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u69	More?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u70	Well, now, come on, let's get our hands on it, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u71	Petrov must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Yuri Ivanovich! I'm afraid I'm not talking about the tree, I'm talking about the space branch. There's, you know, a very interesting project with Brazil, this is the participation of our Cyclone-4 missile science in this project. Regrettably, what the government is doing is somewhat questionable. You know, everybody's canceling the deal now. The government has set aside 70 million dollars to finance the “Cyclonal-4” loan, 150 million dollars for the project, and the taxes, if you cancel the VAT or impose VAT on the construction work, are 80 million dollars. It's a simple arithmetic. So I want to say that today VAT is the terminator of our businesses. I can also point out that today, from a rocket to a small business in the district, I want to say that only on the basis of VAT is our businesses on their knees. What can the government say in this regard today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u73	It's a theme that, let's say that. I just want to say, honourable national MPs, who are signed documents on cooperation with Brazil at the level of the Dnipropetrov region and of the respective region and the KB “South”, and “Yushmash” are actively cooperating there. We'll do everything we can to make the space program work. As far as VAT is concerned. It's the law. And let's talk about legislation. I'm ready to deal with these problems. I can't change the laws, you're changing them, honourable national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u74	Alexander Tchachenko. The word passes on to Valentin Matthews. Please. What? Last question then. Alexander Tchachenko. Valentin Grigorovich Matthews gives him the right to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u75	Dear Yuri Ivanovich! The Communist faction, Tkachenko. Throughout history, Ukraine did not for the first time grow 50 percent of its roller coaster after the Great Homeland War. Throughout the history of the postwar period, Ukraine today has a 98 - percent drop in technology. At the same time, only 5.8 billion grevens have been budgeted, of 0.6 million — not a billion! - to build a car. As Prime Minister and as President today, you appreciate the fact that 2006 is the year of the collapse of the agro-industrial complex. And I think it's going to happen if you don't take the right measures, I think it's going to be the last dot in Ukraine's biography.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u76	Alexander Mikolaiovich, I know that you have all the information, all the statistics, all the years, according to agriculture. I remember what you said about large farms, and I still hope that the concentration that's happening right now will also allow you to concentrate the costs. In any case, what I called “land lease” is exactly the same as in meat production, i.e. there is a serious concentration, and then probably more investment resources in large farms. More possibilities than small farms. I've already said that there are three ways in which we will now work with you on the budget, including the agri-industrial complex. I've been to one of the companies in our neighbors, I've been looking at everything that's related to technology, and I think we're going to be dealing with the Belarusians now with serious cooperation and cooperation in this direction. Unfortunately, how many digits. I'm not going to tell you right now what the APC's cost figure is going to be, it's going to be our joint decision with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u77	Yes, thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. We've already taken the time. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister's report has made all the questions. Not all of them, but he answered part of the questions within 35 minutes. Now, dear fellows, we are going to discuss the report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We agreed to 45 minutes. Representatives of MP factions and groups first speak. The amount of time left, we're going to go on a schedule that's been recorded by the national MPs. Javorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, “Reform and Order” faction. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, our constituents! We are well aware that this report is purely symbolic, decorative, because it is clear how it can be reported in two months. Although it's generally very natural for Ukraine because, if you put your hand on your heart, we didn't have any, let's say, normal functional government for all of our years of independence. All governments were temporary. And we understand very well that this government is temporary in the same way. I would, perhaps, from my point of view, of course, only two governments that had some kind of contact with society and raised some trust, so far two, I say, is the government of Victor Yushchenk and Julia Timoshenko. But you know very well what these governments have done, both first and second. I understand all the "originality" of our country, where we live with you, where 50 percent of businesses are bankrupt, but the economy seems to be functioning. [[in quotes]] We have a fifth place in the world of gas, but we do not freeze. I want to give you one number, Yuri Ivanovich, and I think you're going to put it on. I would like to ask you very much, Yuri Ivanovich, to record this figure, and it has been prepared by specialists who know the matter very well. Today, in the shadow of Ukraine, 30.06 billion dollars are being converted into retail trade, 158 billion dollars in bulk. So the total round of shadow costs is 188.06 billion dollars. If this were to come out of the shadows, which was promised in Maidan, we could pay another 13.2 billion dollars, and the budget would be 18.8 billion, and the only tax on the Pension Fund would be 4.2 billion. This is, we're looking all the time here with you guys, sometimes on your fists, and this is one particular thing where this money is. And the second thing I would like to say is that Julia Timoshenko, when she was elected Prime Minister, began with her soul. I am convinced that Yuri Ivanovich feels the same way. We're not interested in the world today, just our culture, our national face. Yuri Ivanovich, last year when we voted in favour of the budget, set aside for the bookstores, you heard about what was said at the presidential hearings. 11 billion, not a penny a book. Whom we're selling today, we've lost completely our information space, I'm simply asking, if I let it happen next year, we're not interested in the world at all, because we have nothing else.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u79	Yes, please, Mikola Rudzkowski, the Socialist faction. Prepare Prowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u80	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear national MPs, honourable members of the government, I am actually regularly attending a meeting of the government and I can compare the work of the government with that of the past. Yuri Ivanovich, your government is working more professionally, in fact, you are trying to predict situations that may come upon Ukraine. The Ministry of Economics has started predicting for the first time, something is going to happen, not to put out fires. But, Yuri Ivanovich, the situation is very difficult and critical with Ukraine's energy supply during the winter period, if we don't take action now, it'll be too late on January 1. Failure to hold active talks by March 15th, December, and not ending this period will lead to twice the worst in January. I say to you, to the President of Ukraine to finish this now, in December. You are very much involved in this part of the situation with the leadership of NAQ “Naftogaz Ukraine”. Because these people came and started instead of gas professionals to appoint deputy directors of the Ruberoid factory, teachers, unemployed, businessmen, only those who didn't work in the gas industry. And that's what everybody cares about. I believe that the situation that the Head of the Naftogazu Ukraine is not entering Russia or Turkmenistan requires today's decision and determination to help the government and appoint professionals for this difficult period. The second situation, Skrnafta, we know, is controlled by "Private Bank" and, Yuri Ivanovich, nothing has been done by the government yet to change the legislation and to start managing the “Scrollfire”. We've had an oil crisis, they're exporting oil and oil products outside of Ukraine, and no one's affecting this process. I think the session room should take a state position. The third situation, we're saying we don't want to have a crisis. Yuri Ivanovich, we may have a grain crisis next year if these three billion in the reserve we're planning a stabilization fund aren't sent to buy grain. In the following year, the grain will be one and a half thousand dollars, and it will not be cheaper. The third situation, we say, is that we take account of the position and citizens of Ukraine, we privatized “Crioristal”, why do we not finance laws such as the law on children of war? All citizens are waiting in Ukraine. We have 16 million citizens who had savings. If we don't give at least 500 dollars a book, we're told we've stolen a strategic enterprise and forgotten. Last but not least, the Supreme Council has voted against the privatization of strategic objects, and the President is vetoing without any grounds. We divide strategic objects that may have a regional disaster, such as the one we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u81	A frost of motivation now. Please, it's Frost's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I have an offer: on the Conciliation Council, we discussed the issue of the Prime Minister speaking with information. They voted in favour of the report. It's clear that both by the time the Cabinet of Ministers is working, and by the conclusions that we can accept today, because the matter is not being prepared according to procedure, we can take to heart what the Prime Minister has said. Let's stop this discussion. We're already here in form, and we're going to accept a report or, more faithfully, information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u83	Alexander Alexandrovich, I can see from the reaction of the hall that your proposal does not receive unanimous approval. Please, Porovsky Mikola, “Trust of the People”. Behind him is the Glorious Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u84	Mikola Porovski, Republic Christian Party The “Trust of the People” Group notes that the government of Yehanurov had to start work under extremely difficult conditions and conditions this year. When there was an adverse situation in the export sectors of Ukraine's economy in the external markets, Ukrainian entrepreneurs dropped their real price competitiveness by 15 percent for a number of reasons. At the same time, previous decisions by the government and the Supreme Council, which weakened the protection of the internal market, allowed for the introduction into Ukraine of both sugar-cheese and agricultural products and other types of goods. The unwillingness of our companies to work in conditions of increased competition, including China and the countries of the European Union, made the situation that the government of Yehanurov had adopted even more difficult. Under these simple conditions and with world oil prices rising, the government's energy supply managed to ensure the stability of prices in the internal market for petroleum products, which in turn slowed down the price growth for all without exception the type of goods and provided agricultural work. The undisputed benefits of the work of the government of Yehanurov can be attributed to the implementation of the agreement between the government and the European Community to increase the quota for metal exports to 980,000 tonnes and to a million tonnes for 2006. And this government has not only ensured the stable work of the mining and metallurgical complex, but also the work of miners, metallurgy, miners, railways, coxochemicals and accession to the State budget and the purchasing power of several million people, including in the agricultural market that supported our agriculture. And together, all of this has allowed to stop the fall of the internal gross product, which is the government's greatest achievement. It should also be noted that the government did not focus solely on solving today’s problems. The development of an energy strategy until 2030, and the level of development of the energy complex has a decisive impact on the state's economy and the standard of living shows that the government of Yehanurov does not object to working until 2030 and thus demonstrates that it will probably be the very stable government of Ukraine by 2030. Problems and negative developments in the economy that the government has failed to overcome include a significant increase in the consumption volume of imported gas. This year, consumption will increase by 2 billion cubes, at a European price of $500-600 million. And in Ukraine, about 60 million tons of straw is being burned, and in Zitomir, we export straw to an energy-burning boiler abroad because the utility sector does not have the costs of transporting boilers and boilers for energy-burning straw. 600 million budget allocations for energy conservation are relatively very small.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u85	Yes, Victor Andryovich Slauta, faction of “Ukraine”. Prepare Yuri Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u86	Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Slata Victor, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. The envelope given by the government to the 2006 budget has a vertical arrow with the words “investment development and balance”. I don't know if there's gonna be one person in this room who believes those promises. The situation is reversed, decline, degradation, destruction of previously worked potential. A few. on the problems of local budgets. First, in the second reading version, some of our committee's proposals for local self-government are taken into account, but very little and very little has been made and the main mass of suggestions and wishes has remained on paper. With regard to financial security for the performance of delegated powers, I will say that the amount of equalization grants is almost universally insufficient for protected articles, and in many places even for salaries paid to teachers, doctors, and members of local self - government culture. And that's at that disgraceful salary level that we have in the local councils' pay system, especially villages, villages. The salaries of the heads, the secretaries, the peers of the boards that have been compared not only have not been matched but they have become fewer and fewer salaries for the drivers, the cleaning woman. The other one. At the very least, it's a surprise that the projected income calculation, which is taken into account when determining the amount of inter-budget transfers, remains unchanged. Its base, as you know, is the basic mass of a person’s income tax. Its calculation was based on a projected GDP growth of 7 percent in 2006. Who believes that? What's the wonder, let's say Alchevsk or Ilchievsky gets 30 percent. tax on income from natural persons. There, what was the economical forecast for this year? Or for more than 200 million, the government wants to get out of the pockets of local budgets by changing the percentage of the congregation's environmental pollution deductions. These are regular projected local payments. What, then, may be the subject of the mandate of local conservation councils. Let me remind you, at the suggestion of a new authority from legislation, the mechanism of coming to local budgets for the use of state-of-the-art dramas has always been removed. This was done to ensure that future executive boards of district councils would not be able to secure their responsibilities in these areas. Here's all the talk about decentralization and the development of local self-government. Again, in order to change, little is done to strengthen the tax base of local taxes, we need to think of an urgent transfer to our own second basket of local budgets, part of the income tax. In another case, utilities are simply no longer available. Although this may be the case with international financial advisors who are going to destroy state and municipal property.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u87	Yes. Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Please, your performance. Prepare Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, in the context of the Prime Minister's report, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party states that the new team has not yet offered a clear alternative to the policy of the previous regime. The governments of Timoshenko, Yehanurova, did not form priorities: economic policy, energy security, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the restoration of the Ukrainian village. The fiscal policy proposed by the government in 2005 led to increased tax burden on the producer, significantly exacerbated the conditions of small business, and increased its tinification. An accelerated liberalisation policy because of a sharp decline in import duties, where almost 90 percent of imported goods have deprived the Ukrainian producer of any state protectionism. This combined with the revaluation of the bracelet led to a rapid loss of the export potential of the Ukrainian economy and led to a shift of the national market to consumption of imported products. In January and August 2005, consumer imports in Ukraine increased by 72 percent. The result of this liberal economic policy and the lagging socialization of the budget was a sharp slowdown in the pace of economic growth and the threat of economic stagnation. A similar situation took place in the Ukrainian village. The new government has never formed a modern model of agrarian politics. What is more, the tendency toward the kolgasp system and the command methods of the APC minister’s administration have significantly exacerbated the situation in the country. For example, only 5 to 7 percent of farmers could benefit from government subsidies, and the rest could be used on a permissive basis. Yet, the greatest surprise for the UNODC faction was that there was virtually no other approach to national renewal. Ukraine’s promise of creating a Ukrainian face remains outside government policy. For example, in the last year, instead of increasing funding, all kinds of budget spending on the development of Ukrainian language, culture, and the reproduction of historical heritage have been substantially reduced. The same situation with the 2006 budget project, which our faction openly called anti-Ukrainian. Is it all government? No, because the executive branch is working on laws that Parliament approves. Do we provide the necessary quality of laws? Nor is it, because the Supreme Council does not have sufficient potential for Ukraine's democratic progress. The communist-oligarchy majority of parliaments are unable to provide systemic laws for national rebirth, for market and socio-oriented economies, for the development of democracy, for the promotion of Euro-integration. Conclusion. Only a single parliamentary-government team with a single programme can ensure that what a national and Ukrainian citizen needs is an opportunity to work honestly and live happily ever after. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u89	Nestor Ivanovich Schurfi, the Faction of SDPU, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Peter Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u90	Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Televisers, and Radio Hearers! We did not vote, Yuri Ivanovic, for the approval of you by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because we knew that Yushchenko would not let you control the actions of his own Government. With all your professionalism today, there are people in key positions who are beyond your control and who act independently of the Government. The actions of the leader of the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists and the NAC leader Naftegaza Ukraine, Ivchenko, who today put the economy on the brink of collapse, should not be overlooked. That was the idea to go to Moscow to negotiate with Gazprom with the translator of the Ukrainian-Russian language! The results were adequate. Your successful trip to Turkmenistan, which you referred to as your triumph, unfortunately, was the result that we gave up supplies and the real price for gas increased by $15. It is obvious that it has been an accident since you arrived at about the same amount and that the price of gas has risen for our industry. And it is obvious that it is an accident that you are warning the population today that, since January, there may be a sharp rise in gas prices for consumption by our citizens. Today, we cannot but note your lack of influence on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, inadequate action has had very negative consequences for our relationship with Russia, including in addressing the gas issue. We stand before the price of gas from Russia will be at the world level. We are well aware that this will put it on its knees, destroy the national economy. But we are being pushed into NATO at an accelerated pace. You have signed an initial discussion paper on Ukraine's accession to NATO and have pledged to start financing 90 billion bracelets since 2006. And remember, this could lead to the loss of one and a half million jobs. I want to draw your attention to your numbers. You say that the real income of the population in October 2005 has decreased by 4 per cent since September 2005. Yuri Ivanovich, you and Yushchenko will soon not have to worry about the tree that is in Slovakia, because people will not only be able to buy a tree, but also buy something for the tree. Unfortunately, Yushchenko and your Government are a disaster for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u91	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u92	The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The question that we are considering is initiated by the Communist faction member Stanislaw Ivanovich Guerenko, today is not just a topical issue; it is critical. We want to know how the government is going to face a catastrophe that is almost at the threshold of every Ukrainian house. The faction is not convinced by the Prime Minister's generous tone. The Prime Minister's thesis that the race went smoothly is a startling surprise. You know, the year is running out of orange power and the longer it's running, the more ruin. We've been looking at and analyzing the situation since the beginning of the year. Because the government of Yehanurov is not drawing any attention to the definition of a "new government". I can't agree with the thesis that there wasn't a crisis and there wouldn't be. In Ukraine, where the Prime Minister lives, maybe so. And in Ukraine, where I and more than 90 million disabled Ukrainians live, a number of such crises have echoed. The Ukrainians had already eaten 15 or 17 grevens, came on cheap gasoline for 2 bracelets 80, and had tea with cheap sugar. Even now, Ukraine has been rocking the worst recession in recent years in the economy, intertwining with anyone with whom it could not and with whom it had not been able to make an extremely violent energy crisis. By themselves, not by the Russians. Today, the draft State Budget of Ukraine will be considered. What I want to say about that. First, this budget practically destroys the village. Today, it is the government that has brought under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the local councils of all levels, since the adoption of this budget is effectively reducing all local budgets. As head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, I cannot say about a number of social positions. Well, first of all, this state budget project is completely anti-veteran. In particular, I would like to say that a number of provisions of the Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees of Their Social Protection are being halted: compensation for travel costs, assistance once by Victory Day. I would like to say that this government is criminally halted by the provisions of the Social Protection Act. War.’ The standard of article 71 33 with a six badge actually destroys the social protection of Chernobyl and some other categories. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the faction of Communists cannot agree with the draft decree that the Prime Minister should be informed. We're going to insist that, first of all, there be an evaluation, and the assessment of the government's actions is unsatisfactory. Today’s government deserves it absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u93	Andrew School is invited to the presentation. Prepare Tkalenka. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u94	Dear national MPs, distinguished listeners, television and radio. I would like to point out that, of course, we are looking at the government report today. I'd like to disagree with the statement that there's nothing to report, and there's always something to report. The other question is, what is the annual report, it's clear, and it's half a year, and it's three months. Information about government activity, I think we get it all the time and often enough. It is a pleasure to have a government here. But I would like to say a few words. Yulia’s block of Timoshenko is divided with the Prime Minister on the issue of the return of the state of stolen enterprises. We don't understand why this process doesn't continue. While the prime minister talks about peace agreements. Today's Prime Minister believes that the “Cruvoristal”, which he auctioned to the State for 24 billion, is a point in the return of the stolen. We believe that this is the beginning of the restoration of justice and that the expansion of experience into a series of large and yet cynically stolen Kuchma and Yanukovich enterprises will give the state hundreds of billions of dollars. In spite of the decisions of the courts of all the institutions regarding the return of the Nicolaus Ferrosphrine plant to state property, this enterprise still does not belong to the people, it belongs to the oligarchus Pinchuku. The Prime Minister of Yehanurov has made no effort during his tenure to ensure that the trials under the NFZ are carried out and that the factory is returned to the State. We are not satisfied that the Prime Minister of Yehanurova in Ukraine has created a council of oligarchs who do not understand its functions. These oligarchs have been removed by the previous Timoshenko Government, and they are now being called together to make decisions together. Of course, you can make decisions with anyone, but then, of course, we'll weigh any of these decisions. BUTH considers such an approach unfair and believes that the benefits must be given primarily to the average business, not to the oligarchs. At the same time, the oligarchs must return to the legal field and pay taxes as much as they are required by law, not as agreed with the official. It is this approach to Prime Minister Timoshenko that has increased almost 70% in the government budget. This increased the oligarches because they increased the production. The prime minister has to either resign or leave or then head the electoral list. Or not behead him at all. And another, literally, from Lviv. It is unfortunate that the budget did not provide room for the funds allocated under the Supreme Council’s decree to celebrate in Lviv 750 years after its establishment. I don't think this is the best decision for Lviv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u95	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Movement The People's Movement of Ukraine, I'm sorry. Please, your performance. Get ready for Gurey's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u96	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! It is a pleasure that the Prime Minister mentioned today, on December 1, unfortunately, this has not been done by the leadership of the Supreme Council, the momentous date that we are to celebrate today, and I think at the state level. Now essentially. Of course, within two months of the government's work, you can't listen to the Cabinet report, and our faction didn't vote in favour of putting this issue in order today. But since this report has already spoken, I would like to say the following. Of course, today’s government is hard to work, and this is due to the fact that the populist position of the government of Yanukovich is the pre-electionist and, to some extent, to the unsystemic activity of the previous government has led to some problems in the state. But despite the systematization of our government structures and some progress in this direction, I would like to point out that there are a number of reserves in the country. Reserves that could complement the income portion of our budget and that could contribute to a positive solution to the gas problem that exists today in the relationship between Ukraine and Russia. First of all, it's a question of arranging the deployment of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. We believe that the government has not yet taken the steps it needs to take to make this a location. This naval base took place within the framework of the current legislation of Ukraine. So far, there is no basic document of the Cabinet of Ministers that would regulate the management of state property used by the Black Sea fleet of the former USSR. Until now, the funds used by the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation have not been taken into account for the balance sheet that have not been transferred to the administration of the relevant ministries and offices of Ukraine, the authorities of local self-government. And there's no responsibility for these bodies to invent and control land, waterfronts, property complexes. We consider this to be a serious and essential reserve for government activities, and we ask that we take as soon as possible to address this painful issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u97	Basil Gureyev, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine Get ready for Lily Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u98	Honorable National MPs, distinguished colleagues. In fact, it's a pleasure that the government has been working today, and what impresses me more is that the Prime Minister, first of all, is trying to give the government a business atmosphere. Less pyar, more practical action. And given that, I'd like to stop at some questions. That's the first one. Budget policy. Dear government officials, I think the economic forecast put into the budget is really optimistic. This refers primarily to the rise in gross domestic product, the growth rate of industry. But industry and entrepreneurs will never agree with the question that we are putting ahead of the growth rate of exports in economic indicators. That's the negative that's happening today. And in our view, we need to take action because the industry is export-oriented. And that, I think, is a serious question. The other one. In our view, a dialogue between power and business needs to be strengthened. And, first of all, paying attention to the performance of the President's orders. This applies to free economic zones. Yuri Ivanovich refers to free economic zones. The president repeatedly insisted on the development of compensators. But unfortunately, there is no government project in the room today, I mean, in Parliament. We need to pay attention. The other one. The development of entrepreneurship, the implementation of the President's orders, the last assignment, the ink hasn't dried up yet, 200 million dollars for development, and the support programme, the small and medium-sized business development programs -- 200 million wrote. I'm looking at the draft budget. There's no forecast. Here you can continue the middle-class conversation, but we understand that. Next. Implementation of a single social tax. We're always in favor of lowering wages. The president's meeting in Lviv, pay attention, down to 25 percent, we have 2 percent in the budget. I mean, it's a very important question of detailing the economy. And the basic industries: car building, shipbuilding, aircraft building, and so on. I understand that the individual articles that have been published have contributed to the development of industry, but the laws are working. Why is there not yet a list of enterprises that refer to shipbuilding? There are many articles in the law that shipbuilders are awaiting today. We need to get it on the Cabinet level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u99	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. Prepare Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u100	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear government! Dear Parliament! I will start with the quote: “This Fatherland is loved so much, so they beat it, so that from it the blood of hearts flow like water, and the brothers keep silent by their eyes. ” Dear friends, this quote was quoted yesterday by doctors who came under the walls of the Supreme Council, recalling that the MPs had raised their wages and had not thought of them. This quote was asked to quote you, group 283, who wanted to listen to the two-month report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I looked at the attention of the hall, and I looked at the attention of group 283, who wanted to hear the report. You hear, the constituency, this noise in the hall, and this desire to hear the report, it's a total electoral pear. Dear friends! You know what is the biggest deficit in Ukraine? Not budget deficits; it is in many countries; it is not a deficit in energy resources; it is in many countries; the biggest deficit in Ukraine is the absence of a responsible parliamentary majority of the people for 14 years. Here is the problem of all our troubles and even of today’s so - called report. So I'd like to stop at time factors. Dear friends! For 70 years, we built a country, and we ended up with a gift card for laundry powder and essentials. By the way, for the children of the revolution and for the children of war, there was something they didn't care about, something would happen and the Ukrainian authorities would do it in stages. 14 years, 13 years, I'm sorry, we built a country with two Leonids, Makarovich and Danilovich, we ended up with an orange Maidan. In 2003, Ukraine was on the FATF list and corruption was in every office, by the way. But since the doctors have been mentioned here, I would like to ask you, Yuri Ivanovich, that we increase the wages of doctors by 25 percent, and that the financing of rural, rural medicine went through the district budgets. Finally, dear friends, I would like to point out that over the past two months, the government has made tremendous progress: stabilizing GDP, instead of pyari, professional work. And so the voters who were under the walls of the Supreme Council yesterday when they heard that we were listening to the report said: “Or they could come to these deputies and remind them that Ukraine’s national interest is a normal, adequate budget, the professional work of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who is a professional.” So thank you for this two-month job, Yuri Ivanovich, please take the information to the public. Well, group 283 look at what's outside the window of a civil society that wants to protect national interests, not a pre-election cannibal pianist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u101	Igor Jeremiah, a faction of the People’s Party, is invited to the presentation. Since Jeremiah will speak from two and from the faction of the People’s bloc, six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u102	Dear Head, Reverend Prime Minister, Your Honorable Colleagues present! Do we today have reason to listen to the report and appreciate the work of a government that worked for only two months? The real state of affairs in government and state simply obliges us to do so. In September, Parliament supported the President, who resigned the Cabinet of Ministers of Yulia Timoshenko. In doing so, we were convinced that the new government team would be deprived of politics, piazzane, and would work professionally, systematically, correcting the mistakes made by the predecessors. What we see today. First and foremost: the government continues with dignity the best traditions of its predecessors. The radical steps towards economic recovery are not being taken; the investment climate continues to deteriorate. We remain the only country in Europe where investment is taxed. The decline in GDP has not stopped. One percent of gross non-profit is minus one and a half billion dollars of budget revenue. Therefore, there is good reason to claim that the price of the mistakes of the new government is too high for society, and the State budget has lost at least nine billion. What good things have been lost in external economic activity! We've lost a positive balance of trade and turned into an importing country, and this is a loss of jobs. The misdemeanors of the previous government in customs policy are not going to be corrected. For this reason, for example, half of the domestic oil refineries are paralyzed, with all the negative financial and social consequences. What, though, can be explained by the fact that in the current year of rural spending real money aid to farmers has decreased significantly? There are also gaps in social policy. Let's just ask one question: can the government report positively in a month on the creation of the President's millions of jobs. So to this day, it's not clear what kind of concept the Cabinet of Ministers is working with. Unfortunately, the government’s programme of activities “Meet People” is increasingly being transformed into a “Consider Elections” programme. The only thing you didn't inherit, Your Honor Yuri Ivanovich, is telemania, but that's what some of your ministers are doing, and they're actually making fun of TV screens by nightfall, and they've been campaigning for a long time. The brutal disregard of the Constitution and laws is the latest public statement by the chief policeman of Ukraine, who has already appointed political enemies to fight. Where is your esteemed Yuri Ivanovich, an assessment of such actions by a member of the government? And why is there no responsible response from the President of Ukraine? The absence of a development strategy, the lack of systems of approaches and accumulation in the 2006 State Budget project, we hoped that a respected government would begin to correct the mistakes of its predecessors, starting with the preparation of the main financial document. However, that did not happen. Unjustified practice of suspending laws that encourage the development of an agro-industry complex, machinery building, provides social protection for black people, veterans, children of war, and other categories of citizens. Take, for example, the basic agricultural sector for Ukraine. Where, then, is the logic behind government activity? The President supports the initiative of the Lithuanian National Block and announces 2006 in the village, and not only does the Cabinet of Ministers not intend to implement the framework law on State support for the village, but he also advises the President of Ukraine to veto the law on delaying VAT on agricultural production. Everyone is well aware that the budget resolution obliges the government to provide 10% of the spending on the state budget for APC development. For the faction of the People's Party, this is essentially an important position as well as our requirements for an increase of 5 billion dollars in subsidies to local budgets. We also insisted that the list of investment and technology facilities, automobiles, gas pipelines and budgets be approved. These proposals were supported by both the budgetary committee and the Supreme Council. It is therefore worth reminding us that the faction repeatedly warned the government that it would not vote in favour of the budget if the requirements indicated were not met. And unfortunately, we're going to have to do it today. Unfortunately, knowing this in advance, the government did not go to a constructive dialogue with us. By the way, responsible by the government for relations with the peoples, the Minister for Agricultural Policy was present at a faction meeting once. Or look at the government's bed when Parliament adopts important economic and social laws -- there's almost no one there. This is the style of work and interaction of today’s Cabinet of Ministers with the Supreme Council. Today's report by the Prime Minister of Ukraine is to be a serious lesson for the government. The Cabinet of Ministers must finally stop the devaluation of the political promises of Maidan, curb their own political ambitions and not put them above the interests of the people. Only under such conditions could we be your trusted ally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, speeches by MPs and factions have been completed. I ask for the closing statement of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. How convenient for you. There, maybe Yuri Ivanovich? You can go there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u104	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to answer some of the questions that have been raised in your speeches. I met with publishers a month ago that made decisions, and we're going to do everything we can to improve the situation in this difficult area. As far as legislation is concerned, this is in relation to Skrnaft, and I want to say that we have tabled a bill on stock companies, which unfortunately is blocked by a number of financial groups that are not interested in minority shareholders today being allowed to vote. And that's how you block the work of companies like Skrnafta. We would very much ask the honourable national MPs to support this bill, although I know that he did not find support on the committee. I am grateful for the suggestions on energy conservation. With regard to budgetary issues, we will consider them when we consider the budget. I would very much like to ask you, dear colleagues, when the negotiating process is under way, let's not turn interstate issues into serious negotiations on gas into public debates. This is not a subject for discussion. We will discuss it when the negotiations are over. I would ask you very much to stop scaring people because there is always and will always be a social gas in Ukraine. There's no problem with that. It's just to talk. And I would like to make an understanding of how the government wants to get out of this conflict that we have in connection with the distinction between free economic zones and areas of priority development. Now we're talking about the law that you've adopted on tech parks and we're going to give our vision to the President. And yesterday the government adopted a decree that allows for some compensation for issues that arose in connection with a violation of the law. And other questions are me. are organized for the cooperation of the Supreme Council and the government with the Supreme Council. I promise you, the situation will change. We've already figured something out. I think after the budget is adopted, we'll be working together. Thank you for the criticism and for the suggestions made in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! We need to make a decision. From what? Please log in with the procedure. Five minutes. Please sign up. From the decision-making procedure, I understand you're interested in something. Please, come on. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”, please. Please, Your Honor, calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u106	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'd like to give the floor to a colleague of the Pehote faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u107	Infantry Volodymyr Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u108	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Deputies! Dear listeners! I think we've heard the Prime Minister's report today, we've listened to the speech, and we've realized that a lot has not been done yet, and we still have a lot to figure out. I suggest we don't have an approved budget, we have a number of questions that we haven't been able to answer. Today, it is not a decision to make but a decision when we make the budget. And make a budget and make a decision on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u109	I understand your offer. Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u110	Please give the floor to the Cologne MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u111	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u112	Colonies!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u113	Colonies, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u114	Colonyari, 56 constituency, Mariupol, Lithuanian National Block Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm making an offer, no decision today on the government's report. What's more, as my fellow Infantry has rightly said today, is the development of a budget that today does not contain sufficient spending on Chernobyl, on war children, on subsidies to farmers who produce agriculture, and on oppression and destruction of local budgets. Taking into account this proposal to return to the government’s report after the adoption of the budget. Then, in fact, we can assess the level of government work, the understanding of government officials in the task of stabilizing the economy and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u115	Oleg Belarus, faction of Block Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u116	Oleg Belarus. Please give the floor to the national MP, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u117	Victor Taran-Terreen. Please. It's a BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u118	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We had a previous government, we knew clearly the development strategy of Ukraine, we had clear programs: (1) it was agriculture; (2) it was housing; (3) it was road construction. That is, Ukraine has identified those key strategic development points in Ukraine where it could claim to be a civilized European state. Today it's like, you know, from the Prime Minister's report and other reports that we're patching holes out there, but that's what the government doesn't really know. The government knows where it burns, where I'll put it out. But that's not the whole point. And so the proposal, I would support the Pehot deputy, is to be finally determined when we accept the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u119	National Deputy Mukhin, Socialist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u120	I'd like to give it to Mr. Aleksandr Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u121	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u122	Dear friends, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, Yuri Ivanovich. Because I'm already one of those veterans of Parliament, and I understand very well what this is about. To the extent that this work is directed, how united were those who spoke yesterday against the previous government and those who were new and so forth. Let's not surprise people. Let's vote. If this is the report, the draft decree was voted on. If not voted, then the question is closed and closed. And they don't pull the cat by the tail. People are good, it's perfectly clear. Why is it done before the election, and now we're going to have a cotovation with the government. There seems to be a project. I suggested then we listen to the information. This was the case, for the discussion did not really take place. There was no way to discuss and prepare, and in one day such decisions were not made. It is therefore necessary to vote on the ruling. We accept, we accept, we do not accept, we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u123	Yes. Nemirowski. Please. You don't? Yes. A representative of the President has just been asked. All right, time's up, dear colleagues. No, one minute. Vladimir Korsakov and then the President's representative. Ah, pass it on to the mosquito, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u124	Mikola Komar, faction of the Ukrainian Party. I want to support the thesis that Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich has just said that in one day such decisions are not made. And to stress that the main task of the government is financial stability in the state. When the budget was not adopted and the budget was criticised when the Prime Minister's report was discussed, it was probably appropriate for my colleagues to tell me that Mr. Vladimir Mikhajlovich should consider the budget and then take decisions on the Cabinet report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u125	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski. All right, good fellows, time's up. The President's representative, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u126	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of Victor Yushchenka's block “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I want to bring you and my colleague of the national deputies back to the Conciliation Council, where this idea first came up, and I want to remind you how at that time some members of the opposition factions demanded that the government report itself instead of information for a clear reason, which required a report. Why, then, did they give up information? It's clear why. Why are they refusing voting on the report today? It's also clear why. I think that's enough of this election. the pre-election top in the Supreme Council session hall. Vladimir Mihajlovich, the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation requires that the issues involved end with the decision-making process. Therefore, the Rules require you to put all draft decrees to the vote as your Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, we have exchanged thoughts on the procedure for considering the draft decree. I carefully took note of all the suggestions that were made. And let us thus go according to the Rules and act in accordance with the Rules. First, two draft decrees have been introduced. The committee introduced the draft decree and introduced the draft decree as a supplement, I believe, by the people's deputies Rudzikowski and Sadov. In fact, they're identical, slightly expanded. The second suggestion made by Peter Stepanovitch Zybenko to evaluate work unsatisfyingly. Is that a report or a job? It's not clear, Peter Stepanovich. Here is suggested on the committee and in an alternative project to be accepted. That's a second offer. And the third suggestion was not to make a decision, to postpone it to better times. Therefore, respectable colleagues. But wait, don't rush. Please don't hurry, dear fellows. I have made three proposals, and will put to the vote in order of his coming. What did I say wrong? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a decree, please listen. [[Registration number 8514]] I'll read it, it's short. “After hearing the report of Prime Minister Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich of Ukraine on Ukraine’s socio-economic development in the current year and the forecasting of Ukraine’s further development for 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: 1) The report of Prime Minister Yehanurov Jury Ivanovich of Ukraine on the socio-economic development of Ukraine in the current year and the forecasting of the country's further development for 2006 is well known; [[Yeah, get to know each other, thank you.]] (2) To recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, when working on the project of the State Economic, Social and Social Development Programme of the country for 2006, take into account the observations and proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies during the discussion of this report. “ I don’t know I'm voting on this motion for a draft ruling as a whole. Please vote. For – 163 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. We're going to vote now. Communists – 0, "Ukraine" – 0, National Party – 5, "Ukraine" – 39, Block Timoshenko – 2, SPU – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 23, SDPU(o) – 0, National Block – 0, "Trust of the People" – 16, "Reforms and Order" – 14, "One Ukraine" – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 14, non-fractional – 13. Who's in charge of going back to the draft decision I just read? [[Registration number 8514]] To return to the consideration of this decision, please. For – 134 The decision is not taken. Now it's the second decision of an alternative nature. The author is the national deputy of Rudzkowski. Registration number 8514-1. Please explain this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll read the verdict. And I'm going to ask you to accept it as a basis and then redraft it by voting on it. If we don't vote, we're going to vote now -- we're going to fail it and we're going to finish the question, and we can't take any decision then. And that's why, if you don't mind, I'll read it. “After hearing the report by Prime Minister Yehanurov on the socio-economic development of Ukraine in the current year and forecasting Ukraine's further development for 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: the report by Prime Minister Yehanurov on the socio-economic development of Ukraine in the current year and the forecasting of Ukraine's further development for 2006 will be taken into account; the second, recommending that the Cabinet of Ministers take action to implement the Supreme Council's Resolution on the prevention of the energy crisis in Ukraine from the sixth of October 2005; the negotiations with the Russian Federation of Economics on the issue of natural gas supply in Ukraine by 15 December 2005 will be completed by the Government of the Russian Federation on the development of the current state of progress; the third, attention to the failure of human resources policy in the energy sphere and the failure of the high-prision programme to support the development of natural gas supply in Ukraine; the current state Please accept as a basis. Dear national MPs, one minute. The draft decree reported by MP Rudzkowski differs from the text given. From his voice he proposes to resign the leader of Naftogazu. So now I'm going to read this draft decree, and I'm going to propose to take it as a basis. Like him, and you have him, there's no need to read, but in this version, which was offered in writing, because we can now make a lot of decisions. Well, please, don't help me, I'm still doing my job. Yeah. Well, thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, thank you. No, I'll bet. We're voting on these rulings right now. Dear colleagues, well, with a motive, please, three minutes. Sign up for your motives, please. Ivan Alexandrovich. I don't take others. Can't you see? There's a draft decision. Do I owe it to her to vote? Responsibilities. Babourin, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u129	Please pass on the word of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u130	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u131	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Zibenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, during the presentation, I made an offer to recognize the government's work as unsatisfactory. I'm making this proposal now. The government's work on the socio-economic development of the country in the current year and forecasting for further development in the country for 2006 is considered unsatisfactory. I think that today's discussion and, in particular, the preparation of the 2006 draft of the State Budget of Ukraine has convincingly demonstrated that such a proposal must be present in the decision that we are taking together, because, indeed, there has been a great deal at the disposal of the government of proposals today, so I think this proposal would be very appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u132	Mikhailo Dobkin, Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u133	Dear People's Deputies, I think that the draft decree read out by our colleague Rudzkowski, I think it completely replaces all the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, and it sets out what they should do for a year ahead. I therefore propose to revert to the proposal proposed by the “Regions of Ukraine” and to consider the matter after the decision of the Supreme Council on the budget has been delivered. This will then be the final option, and it will be possible to understand what assessment to give to Governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u134	Sergey Ratushnyak, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u135	I'm surprised at the Presidential factions who are yelling that there's no need to report in two months. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the same government that Timoshenko came to instead of Julia and, by the way, this whole change was made to get rid of Julia, and the thief, Yushchenka's godmother, was brought into the Ministry. It's the same government. That's why all of his reports, so they're relevant throughout the whole year -- that's the first. Second, because the decline in the economy and the threat of social explosion, the targeting of the split state of Western dissipation, is a threat to the loss of statehood, and that means that this activity is based on the work of both the government and the President, to find unsatisfactory and that. The threat to Ukraine’s national sovereignty and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u136	Igor Yukhnovsky, please. Igor Raphailovich, microphone. Is it? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u137	Yukhnowsky, “Our Ukraine”. I appeal to the honourable deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, you are the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you represent the people of Ukraine here, and that is why I am addressing your seriousness from the point of view of your position. What he has done, the report that the government has done is a worthy and reasonable report. The government's work is also going well, and that's why I think we should go back to the first decision. And we all have to accept it. It's smart and constructive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, we exchanged motives before voting on the draft decree, which was passed by the People's Deputies of Rudzikowski and Sadow, registration number 8514-1. You have this project. I'm putting this document on the ground. People's deputies please identify themselves. Z-28. The decision is not taken. Please calm down. Dear National Deputies! Other proposals that came out of the voice, including from Peter Stepanovich Cibenk, I don't think we can put these proposals to the vote right now. Please allow the committee to finalize the draft decision taking into account the suggestions made. What? Dear colleagues! We talked about it. Calm down, we discussed the matter, and then we worked together and made a decision. All of it. The factions are clear. Question completed. It's Valerie Mishur. Please, listen to the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u139	Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing the start of the vote for the appointment of a member of the High Council of Justice. The vote will continue for 30 minutes. I'd like to invite everyone to the registration tables.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u140	A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 51 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u141	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. The draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 is being announced for consideration. Such rules of procedure are proposed. A second reading of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's draft "On Ukraine's State Budget 2006" is under article 43 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which the Minister of Finance reports on second reading, taking into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft "On Ukraine's State Budget 2006", the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports on the Committee's findings on the Committee's budget. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine drew the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006. To the second reading. It is proposed that the following rules of procedure be set. Report by Finance Minister Viktor Mikhajlovich Pinzenik of Ukraine - within 15 minutes, answers to questions - within 10 minutes, report by the Head of the Committee on Budget Issues Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna - in 15 minutes, answers to questions - in 10 minutes, decision-making - for 5 minutes. Is there no objection? None. Please, Victor Mikhailovich, I invite you to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u142	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, members of the Government, distinguished Prime Minister, dear fellow countrymen, on the basis of the conclusions and proposals approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Government has finalized the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006. The absolute majority of the proposals in the textual part are included in us, taking into account many of the proposals that relate to the amount of expenditure. What are the main quantitative and qualitative parameters for the second-reading budget? The revenue of the state budget is increased, you have the ability to see information materials, increased 120.3 billion dollars to 125.8 billion, or 5.3 billion dollars. Expenses: from 130.2 billion to 138.7, or 8.5 billion dollars. This increase in expenditure took place primarily on the basis of proposals to increase some of the revenue in the budget. We've agreed with these proposals, they apply to the rent for oil. Income from the National Bank of Ukraine The government has compromised and has made an extremely important issue of reducing the tax burden. It's about cancelling the customs assembly, collecting money from the sale of the currency, and cutting down on the payroll fund. In two positions, we offered a compromise solution. The second component of the budget increase is the correction of the budget deficit. We have made a compromise in this regard. The budget deficit has increased from 9.9 billion -- 1.9% of GDP to 12.9 billion, 2.5% to GDP. Taking this step, the government emphasizes that this increase has been made on the basis of expenditure of a single nature that does not create problems for the years to come and does not force the country to live in debt, to borrow money. At the expense of such expenses, it is suggested that a solution be initiated to problems that had not been addressed in the country before. So 600 million dollars is proposed for energy conservation projects. 600 million dollars for heating repair and reconstruction, 500 million for long-term loan of investment projects for the village. The increase in the statutory mortgage fund – up to 100 million dollars – along with the right to participate one billion dollars allows a large-scale solution to the extremely acute housing problem, and we will stress for the less wealthy citizens, because these loans will be granted up to 30 years and at low rates of interest. The increase in expenditure is proposed for us and for such important directions as the creation of Ukrainian aircraft, the construction of bridges, metropolises, and the budget support for innovative projects. Corrections have also been introduced to social policy for the following year. So the first group's disability pension increases by 2.5 times, and those who participated in the worst period – 1986 – 3.5 times. There is a 50% increase in the disability pensions of members of the Professional Service. There are funds available for the full removal of citizens from the area of eviction, for the acquisition of cars for the disabled, and for wheelchairs. On the basis of the tasks assigned by the President of Ukraine, it is proposed that the first step be taken to strengthen primary basic medicine, especially in rural areas. You all know very well what a neglected state rural medicine is. Most obstetric and obstetric points are closed, and they don't have the most necessary equipment. Quick help is a rare visitor in the village. The draft budget for second reading includes 7,000 dollars for each FAP, for each rural infirmary. Costs have been set up for the purchase of ambulances in each region of Ukraine. An increase of 100 million dollars has been made in the cost of TB, HIV, cancer, and heart disease programmes. School information costs have been doubled. At the same time, both the President and the Prime Minister of Ukraine commissioned non-budgetary funds to address education information issues, primarily in rural areas. Substantial changes to second reading have been made to local budgets. Local budgets have increased by 5.8 billion dollars. Without clearing, 70 percent of this increase is investment expenditure and 30 percent is current expenditure. For capital costs, these are heat grids, gas supplies, subways, electricity, roads, and an additional 1.5 billion dollars. Two billion dollars has been allocated to resolving local public payments debt problems. Nearly one billion more equalization grants have been increased. Including a salary of 518 million dollars. The need to respond to a painful problem, such as underemployment in the budget area, is taken into account. This is especially true of cultural workers in rural areas, where many people work in half or a quarter of the wagers. The cost of rural development is estimated at 10 billion dollars. This represents 10.6 percent of the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget without counting the Pension Fund. Most of these costs are production programs. Including the new program, loaning the village’s projects over a period of 500 million dollars. Among the village’s development programs, the government is proposing to increase fourfold the financing of the construction of the pipelines — 130 million dollars. We are obliged to deal with the problem when some villages in Ukraine are still carrying drinking water. Recall, too, that 150 million dollars are available for repairs to rural schools. In the second reading of the 2006 budget, nearly 900 million dollars increased the amount of expenditure on coal industry. Honourable National Deputies, submitted for second reading, were working with the government on the Budget Committee. On many issues, we found reconciliation. However, the final agreed position could not be found. What are the main differences? In the course of his work, the government stated that it was ready to seek further compromise on the issue of tax reductions. However, we would like to emphasise that we cannot give up the strategic line between the President of Ukraine and the government after the annual decline in tax burden on the economy. Unfortunately, all government tax reduction initiatives have been rejected. We cannot agree with the proposal to remove 200 million dollars from the budget for reserves. You all remember the price shocks this year for gasoline, sugar, and meat. The government could not react because it had no resources. The country must create the right reserves. The government has claimed and declared its willingness to further increase the local budgets by another 2 billion dollars. Together, this increase is going to be 7.8 billion. But we insist on preserving the investment component of increasing these costs. Unless we may be concerned about the problems of heavy heat loss, many of our cities and communities are running out of hot water or heat. Another fundamental moment. On the basis of the 2006 work discussion of the draft budget, the budget deficit has begun to grow dangerously. According to our calculations, it is proposed to increase it to 16 billion dollars. This is 3.1% of GDP, and given the need to reduce tax burden, the deficit is getting even higher, almost 19 billion dollars or 3.7% of GDP. Let me remind you that according to a budget resolution approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the deficit threshold is set at 2%. What is dangerous about such a deficit? Or, more simply, spending over 19 billion dollars on income. In a country with such a deficit, there is no investment in the reconstruction of our factories and factories. Secondly, every point of increasing deficit is reflected in the pockets of our citizens because prices are rising. In other words, money is given with one hand, and the other is taken with inflation. Thirdly, this excess of income over expenditure is no longer covered by the income available from privatization. And you all know very well that in the next six months, we will not receive any new serious revenue from privatization. I inform you that this year, without privatization, we have received less than 700 million dollars in the budget. We face a very dangerous prospect of living in debt again. And since the increase in deficits is proposed mainly for fixed expenditure, the prospect of living in debt over the years. You remember how this ended in 1998. Remember, too, what debts the country had in 2000 and how this could have ended. We cannot and do not have the right to pursue such policies. We have no right to delay our problems for future generations of Ukrainian citizens. We must do what we have already achieved this year – we have not increased the country's debt. We have a very difficult budget this year, but we're doing it. And more than that, like the Minister of Finance, I would like to state that by the end of this year, the country's debt will be reduced. The government is deeply sorry that we have failed to find a reconciled position on these fundamental issues, and we are obliged to find one because we have to accept a real balanced budget. We must be honest with the country and its citizens. It's not a sweet promise, it's a real promise to do things when every bracelet is not just written in the budget, it's actually given by a restraint. I support the proposal made yesterday by representatives of the local councils of national deputies, since there are no agreed positions on a number of fundamental issues, to postpone the decision from the draft budget to the next plenary week. The compromise is important, and the government reiterates its willingness to seek it. But it can't be a one-way street. This must be a mutual desire of the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u143	The minister's report has been completed. Dear colleagues, questions for 10 minutes as agreed. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u144	Honorable Rapporteur! Faction of the regions, Alexander Pecklusenko, Zaporozska region. You're saying you're willing to compromise. You see, after your first reading, you've moved on both incomes and expenses. Now why does our faction and the entire Parliament object? The main motives are: First. Local budgets. We only left local budgets with the payroll. Second motives. These are issues related primarily to the village and the domestic producer. The most important issue is social standards. The Children of War Act is out, and the Law on the Privileges of Chernobyl is out. You yourself understand and remember what you called the last budget. If we don't pass these laws on the Chernobyls, if we don't take on the children of war, it'll be the budget of the curse. We do not want to participate in the adoption of the curse budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u145	Dear National Deputies! Please show me the 13th picture again. Please see the changes regarding local budgets. Changes are proposed for second reading. You see, the first one is about the extra equalization grants. These are the costs of making the income of the first basket. The rest are the investment costs of local budgets. This is a question of heat grids that we've never had a hand on before, energy-saving pipelines, subways that have never been funded, these are problems of subsidies for the transfer of military towns that have not been solved, these are field-based obstetrics, ambulances, electricity transport, information and so on. The amount shown is 5.8 billion. It's different. I am confirming today that the government has further increased the additional grant to local budgets by another 2 billion dollars. With regard to rural expenditure. We have carried out the Supreme Council's mandate that rural expenditure should be at least 10 percent of the general budget for the pension fund minus transfers. The amount of expenditure per village amounts to 10 billion. That's right. Third thing. So it's not the first year that, unfortunately, we have a lot of spending left out of the budget, because often laws that don't have financial resources are passed. We're ready to implement any law, but I'm going to remind all of us that next year, an additional resource that we can share in the country, in society between budgets of different levels, between different programs is 22 billion. That's right. And we can't get past that number, because otherwise we'll promise people what they really can't then do. Within this balance, we can always easily find compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u146	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u147	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction. Viktor Mihajlovich, today in the order of the day, nine bills on the distribution of funds from “Cruvorzystali”. Tell the deputies not to roll their lips and tell them where the government wants to use them. And the second. Your attitude towards the proposed Communist faction of creation at the expense of the State Bank for Reconstruction and Development? Here you can create this bank and save money for investment projects, and for rural development, and for rural infrastructure development. Your attitude and where's the money from the "Croats"?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u148	Dear friends, thank you for asking. First of all, there can be no two schemes for the distribution of funds. The only law that determines the order of spending in Ukraine is the State Budget Act. When we're looking at the law this year, when we're looking at the law for the next year, we're approving the budget with a deficit, which is exceeding the expenditure on income, and we're determining the source of the coverage. This source is defined by law, it's called privatization. So other schemes, two parallel schemes, can't be there, so otherwise there's a problem at the expense of the budget. And one of the things that we have to think about, the question of which expenses we're making deficits or increasing expenses. Here we insist that part of the expenditure be of one nature. For example, we're increasing the 100 million dollars of the mortgage facility. These are the funds that will go towards lending housing. We do it once. The following years, this problem does not arise. Another program. Crediting energy savings. It's a program that's going to make the money come back, and it only increases the budget spending by 1 year. Third. I would like to thank you for the proposals that were supported during the changes to the budget this year, because in fact the idea that you're talking about -- supporting the lending of the national economy -- is partially implemented. We have increased the statute fund of the Savings Bank and the Eximbank by 700 million dollars. [[It's 2 state banks.]] Yesterday, the government made the right decision, and the next few days, we're going to send the right funds to these two state banks. What does that do? We estimate that these two banks will be able to increase the amount of credit to the national economy by 17 billion dollars. Second, the increase in capital allows you to increase the amount of the loan by one borrower. Here we discussed, during a break with the deputies, questions such as loaning shipbuilding, where large sums of funds are needed. As the bank becomes more powerful, it has the ability to lend large projects. Second of all, give credit for the longer term. So we're starting to realize this idea, this is one of the forms of good investment that allows for good results in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u149	Katerina Vaszczuk, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u150	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You're wrong when you say you're giving the village 10 billion and when people hear you, they'll think they're going to want national finance ministers. There are two ways to finance the village. Villagers have to endure in the same way as citizens and social standards in the village as in the city. When we talk about 10 percent, I'll produce the countryside. Support for price parity, you know where it's equal and next to Europe. So there's no money in the budget, but how do we do enough to compete in our products and European prices? And one more thing. Is the government ready to make the maximum amount of money that will go to the village directly for the sold produce, the sown hectare, the head of the cattle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u151	I'm asking you to show me the 14th picture. Dear friends, you have a list of programs, I'll tell them if they apply to the village for 10 billion dollars. Animal development – 849 million, credit support for agricultural producers – 500 million, long-term credit – 500 million, agrarian fund and stock creation – 1 billion 165, land melioration – 586, APC technology for domestic production – 285, plant development – 210, gardening development – 185, veterinary medicine – 751, agrarian science and rural education – one billion 377, social and cultural development – a billion 46, compensation for the difference in contributions to the Pension Fund – is a direct contribution to the agricultural sector – one billion 576 million, agriculture and other programmes – almost 400, gasification, water supply in the village – 580. The sum is 10 billion dollars. These are all village - related programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u152	Igor Yukhnovsky, please “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u153	Yukhnowsky, “Our Ukraine”. Modernization of scientific laboratories, the extension of the academic fibre network, the creation of the latest laboratory in genetic engineering, are the most important problems facing Ukraine, which include it in the scientific community of Europe. Please tell me, Victor Mikhailovich, this isn't big money, order 150 million dollars, they'll be used so much, why are they personally against this amount?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u154	Dear Igor Rafaiovich, I am not against anything. I do what the minister of finance has to do. We can understand the desire to solve the greatest number of problems in one year. The Ministry of Finance's task is to identify a resource that we can honestly, truthfully direct to society. The task of politicians is to set priorities. And I'm bringing the conversation back to the same thing. Let's, if there's a need to clarify our priorities, we're always your allies, but we understand that there's a common resource and let's divide it properly. We'll never have a discussion here. It's important that we share that. That we can really promise society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u155	Yes, Victor Mikhailovich, thank you, time is up. Have a seat, please. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna. Yes, please, Sophia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the Budget Committee, beginning on 16 November of this year, worked in detail in subcommittees, working groups and at its meetings, the draft State Budget Act 2006 submitted by the Government for second reading. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the amended draft State Budget Act 2006 out of 84 budget proposals by the Cabinet of Ministers does not include 18. And out of 127, 61 points. I'm not going to characterize the figures that Finance Minister Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik has already detailed, but I can say that as a result of this document being finalized and made available for second reading by the government, there has been a total increase of almost 8.5 billion dollars in the State budget, of which 4.5 dollars in the General Fund and 4 billion in the Special Fund. Above all, however, one of the most important budgetary policy issues for 2006 is not implemented. This is a prediction of the appropriate resources for the proper execution of powers delegated by the State and for the improvement of the economic structure of local budgets. Indeed, the government declares an additional target of nearly 5.7 billion dollars on local budgets. In fact, this number corresponds to an indicator, but what are these? Only one billion of that amount is real money for delegated powers, everything else is almost pre-emptive. For example, two billion are offered to direct local budgets to so-called differences in municipal services tariffs, i.e. money will go to local budgets that will pay off their debt to NAC Naftogazu enterprises, which in turn will pay off the debt to the State Tax and Assembly Budget. So it's a pre-emptive scheme. About one billion dollars is directed at exactly the same savings target that we started in 2005. The point is that citizens can actually come to form their savings books to pay for the corresponding utility costs. This should not refer to direct funding and an increase in the resources of local budgets. Some 900 million are directed to various programs, of which 20 million are to help families with children, 70 are tows, and 200 million are to build a subway. Sorry, 100 million subways are being built in only four cities in Ukraine. What about others? Can you and I count this as a global resource of local budgets? There are a few other programs that have a pretty interesting direction. For example, this is a 50 million - dollar - size utility. It's about trolleybuses and trams. Indeed, these are additional expenses, but will they be able to use all local budgets? No, it's just big cities. 300 million are proposed to be transferred to measures to reduce energy costs. But there's no program, there's no government regulations. It's actually a new government program. As for the APC's expenses. The Committee notes that there are no clear priorities for direct agrarian development. Even the huge number of individual small budget programmes in the APC, which are not the main ones in solving the problem, do not actually solve the problems of agriculture, but simply disperse budgetary resources. The total increase in expenditure in the APC is 868 million dollars. Of these, the General Fund is 724. Including 500 million for long-term credit for the introduction of advanced technologies into the APC. This is a program that actually allows you to simply manage the resource without any principles, without any distribution, because there are no Cabinet decrees, there are no relevant Ukrainian laws. It's actually a resource in the hands of one ministry. And we're like a committee, and you're like national MPs, and citizens won't know when they're adopting a budget that the Ministry wants to target directly. The commission of the Committee and the Supreme Council to organize other legislation was also not carried out. And that's a pretty serious problem with the budget. We agreed with you that when it comes to legislation and the rule of law when making decisions, the Law on Budgets makes changes to other laws, we have virtually no right. So we suggested that we exclude articles 85, 86, 87. This is about changes to the law, the Land Code, the laws of Ukraine concerning the privatization of state property and the delimitation of state and municipal property associated with the sale of non - agricultural land. And today, no one forbids the government to engage in the organization of the sale of these lands, but with transparent, clear schemes. Please, at auctions under any rule. And if someone cannot satisfy his wishes to sell the land for the second time under privatized facilities and thus redistribute property rights in Ukraine, this will only lead to legal vacchanalism. In addition, separate paragraphs of this law on financial security for the exercise of parliamentary powers under the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the People's Deputy have not been excluded. There is no exception to article 95, which deals with reducing the size of the congregation to compulsory pension insurance from 32.3 to 30.8%. I want to put a stop to this problem. Dear colleagues, in our view, the decline in deductions to the Pension Fund has absolutely nothing in common with tax cuts. Because it's a citizen's money that's on his pension personal account and it's not a tax drop. Indeed, it is a reduction in the cost of the employer, but this will primarily have an impact on the reduction of the citizen’s pension costs. And so we can't support this proposal. What did the committee support? The committee supported the decline in the unemployment fund, because if we've created about 500 new jobs in statistics and the fund's expenditures are now in surplus, of course, we can agree that this proposal is supported, if that's really the case. But to our question about creating new jobs in the sector, in the area section, today for the last month and a half, we never got an answer. Where are these jobs created? In addition, the amended draft law proposes a number of new articles that are totally inconsistent with the requirements of the Budget Code. The main problem with this second reading is that certain laws, laws on children of war, on the status of Chernobyl, on the limitations of pensions today are incorporated into the budget law and are a stumbling block. Instead of reforming the social pay system, pension insurance, the government is trying to cover the holes and suspend the existing laws. I don't know if any of the deputies in the room can support the proposal to limit Chernobyl payments even if it depends on the life of the whole country. When we talk about the lives of every individual and about people being entitled to such assistance, we do not have the opportunity to vote for such proposals. But we offer the government a way out of this situation. The government can and should make changes to legislation, including the Social Code, where the equality of all before the law depends solely on one principle: property. Because we have left over, our respectable colleagues, our industry benefits, and people who today have 10,000 and 15,000 dollars of everything they leave behind: and the payout for phone calls, and the benefits for utilities, and the provision of free housing, and those who receive 500 or 600 dollars don't have that kind of benefits except for a small social one. And so this actually distorts the principles of equality of everyone before the budget, which are enshrined in the Constitution. Moreover, the government has not made adequate compromise proposals for the phased implementation of the Social Protection of War Children Act. The proposals that remain in the law can't even be called compromises, because it's about, first of all, the last thing we've broken out as a compromise is the right to free passage. But I can say that those citizens who have reached retirement age and are children of war tend to use that kind of benefit. Furthermore, we do not agree that the Cabinet of Ministers has unjustifiably lowered the plan of revenue from the privatization of state property. How can we understand such an approach? On the first reading, 8 billion, on the second reading, 2 billion, but publicly declared that it will be sold. The following objects are: “Krutlekom”, Odessa’s port, Nicopolski’s Ferrospolyne, Nicopolski’s pipe. Is that 2 billion dollars? Of course, this does not correspond to the amount needed. So we suggest you leave it at least for the first reading. In its conclusions, the Budget Committee draws attention to the need for the following: first of all, the maintenance of an existing tax base is to increase the purchase and sale of currency; these are customs congregations prior to Ukraine's entry into WTO; we can agree to such a formula, provided that the entire amount of money is invested in the income part of the budget. And one and a half percent will go to the Pension Fund. We're proposing to the government to restore the plan of revenue from privatization to 8.1 billion dollars. We're clarifying the VAT recovery forecast. Given that our previous bids were 2 billion dollars, to clarify the VAT recovery plan, we now agree with the government for 500 million dollars. In addition, we propose to change certain rules when setting a minimum wage for the following year. The point is that instead of 360 bracelets to be introduced from July 1, 2006, as proposed by the government, 375. So this is going to be the most realistic step towards approaching the minimum wage of 400 dollars from December 1, 2006. We insist on increasing the amount of local budget expenditure by 5 billion, 450 of which are additional subsidies, while others are directed directly to the regions by the formula to leave the money in place: for the export of garbage, for the sorting of areas, for the purchase of food, for the purchase of medicines, to replace today in hospitals where the sheets and mattresses have been unable to be in normal condition for almost 15 years now. In addition, we also propose to include 222 million special subsidies to preserve the historical forgetfulness of cities, objects of historical and cultural heritage. And to transfer an additional 40 million subsidies to compensate for the loss of income from the deployment of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. At the same time, the reconciliation of all proposals under the bill has proved rather problematic, both in part of the resources, although I want to say frankly, we have found a part of the compromise here as well as in part of the budget spending, particularly the social costs under the current legislation. I have already talked about the laws that have remained a problem for us today because the government is proposing to stop them: this is the Children of War Act and this is the law that has to do with the provision of certain social expenses for the Chernobylites. According to the Budget Code, for the second reading of the draft law, it is necessary to provide for the approval of the total amount of income deficits, government budget expenditure, minimum wage, minimum wage, minimum wage security, inter-budgetary relations, and all the provisions necessary for the formation of local budgets. I could say that the committee would be able to determine for itself with a figure of 5 billion and distribute them between local budgets by formula only on one condition, if the entire database that is today in the Ministry of Finance was parallel to ours, in our committee. But unfortunately, we don't have such a base, we can't use it, so we're proposing that this draft State Budget Act 2006 should return the Cabinet of Ministers to bring it in line with the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and have the Supreme Council reconsidered its second reading on a weekly basis. We believe that there is an opportunity to find a solution to the 2006 decision and budget. And we realize that it is imperative for the country to adopt this law, since in the following year all expenses relating to pension benefits today cannot be incurred solely at the expense of the pension fund. The state budget is passed on by, esteemed colleagues, almost 20 billion. an additional grant to the pension fund. And what this government and today's political power, who came to power, criticized all the previous people for populism, for determining the pre-retirement pay and not paying attention to wages, did the same thing, started to raise pensions and didn't work properly, balanced with raising the minimum wage. And so I deepened the problem that had already arisen in previous years. That's what I'm trying to say. There's a clear distortion of monetary policy in this budget, more loyally, of support proposals for exclusively banking. This is also the provision of guarantees to banking institutions, the formation of statutory bank funds, the compensation of interest on high-end bank loans is a step in the past. We have to go the other way. We need to work on the stability of Ukraine's monetary and credit system, because the Budget Act is a long-term, long-term financial document. And monetary policy, it's like resuscitation. It can run the economy and influence quickly. In our view, monetary and credit policies primarily as a quick-response tool, how resuscitation should ensure full employment and the absence of inflation by market-based civilized financial methods, instruments, not by compensating huge interest on bank loans. Our proposal from the committee came out. Please support the draft decision presented by the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u157	Yes, thank you, Ludmila Pavlovna. Dear colleagues, questions to Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Please sign up for 10 minutes. On the board, please show me the name of the National Deputies. Jaroslav Suhi, Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u158	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, "Regions of Ukraine". Sophia Pavlovna, I have a clear view of this budget. It's based on a lie, and it's going to be a lie like 2005. Please advise our voters in Zaporozhye what to do. Why was only November 30 of this year at number 1116 for Zaporozhye’s investment obligation to move the barracks. [[Pavłkičkas settlement]] Give advice on how you can get nearly 3 million dollars a month to build a residential building. Will such a shameful practice, a cynical, hypocritical practice of the government’s financial bloc continue in the 2006 budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u159	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I want to tell you about the first question. We can from this budget, by transforming it according to budgetary conclusions, make a real development budget so that it's transparent and clear where the taxpayers' costs are spent. And that's how the budget committee works. And as you can see, the government has agreed to a huge number of our proposals, but we still insist that they be taken into account and those that are fundamental to us. As far as the use of funds is concerned. As you know, our committee has been practically daily for the past six months. is working with the government on the distribution of these funds. And now in order to implement this regulation, I'm sure the government needs to immediately adopt the relevant normative document on how to use this money and transfer it to places as a grant without being deleted at the end of the year. That if the money is given to them to stay in the local budgets directly until they are fully used, this year will end or the next budget will begin. This is going to be the way out of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u160	George Boiko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u161	George Boiko, Communist faction. Please pass the word to your colleague Cibenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u162	Peter Cibenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u163	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, well, what I'd like to say is that in the way that the draft budget is presented to the Cabinet of Ministers for second reading, and this is a completely anti-regional, anti-agrarian, anti-veteran document, we're not going to support it in that way. That's the first one. The other one. What you're saying is that you've achieved as a compromise from the government on children of war on public transportation is an illusion. Because when public transportation is private, we have to understand that they've been expelled and expelled. How do you see that before the decision, and we will support it, your draft decision, add article 71, paragraphs 17, 18, and 33, indicating six?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u164	Dear Peter Stepanovich, concerning the APC. I could say that the numbers that are called the minister of finance correspond to the reality of directing funds. But they don't solve the main problems at all. In fact, the government, by passing laws on the entry into WTO, has today assured the Supreme Council and the APC staff that it will do everything possible to compensate for the damage that this sector will suffer. But unfortunately, such compensatory mechanisms, namely, subsidies that the whole of Europe has today, are not available. That's why we're offering, without dispersing money on individual programs -- we don't know how they're going to be used -- lending, compensating interest, direct support to the manufacturer, without too much delay, to plant and animal production. And we ask that this is the kind of proposal and this position is taken into account. As far as the children of war are concerned. I called it a compromise by the government, that's what they agree on, but that doesn't mean that the Supreme Council agrees. We realize that this law and its implementation are followed by a large number of people today. And so leave in the way the government has proposed, completely blocking the law, of course, the Supreme Council will not agree. As for article 71, if this is supported by the Supreme Council, we will not deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u165	Basil Shpak, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u166	F. Shpak, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. I'd like you to pass it on to Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u167	Peanut, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u168	Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, 2006 declared president of the village. Viktor Mikhailovich said that for the first time, 10% of the budget will be allocated to the village. Don't you think Victor Mikhailovich has made some inaccuracies? 10% of the total budget fund should go to support agriculture, not rural areas. For agriculture, there are only 5 billion. And tell me, next year, is it likely to be a year of entry into a world trading organisation, or will our businesses, our farms compete with a Western farmer who gets subsidies for the production of products that receive export subsidies or subsidies? Can we compete with a Western farmer? This is the next question and the third question: there are 285 million technical expenditures in the budget. These are the costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u169	I can tell. That the village can only be supported as it is in Europe, only when Ukraine becomes a member of the European Union. Unfortunately, this is not happening today. Our budget conclusions, which we have proposed in the Supreme Council, have provided for expenditure on the village and the agricultural sector. That's why it's hard to say. whether the government has violated such proposals, the point is that there are no clear programs and no basic priorities. The main priorities are direct subsidies to plants and animals, i.e. directly to support the sector. We also proposed another, Sergey Mikolaiovich, mechanism. I want us to pay attention to this in an additional way, at least briefly. The thing is, the government is proposing to create a so-called, stable fund. What kind of money is that? Everyone's asking, what kind of money did they come from? How will they be used? The government is offering the privatisation costs that will remain in the following year over the deficit determined by the Government to keep in the treasury accounts without any use. We propose giving the government's right, as all countries do, to use these funds to buy securities and deposit deposits. This will allow low interest rates to advance priority areas. That is to support domestic trade rather than compensate for the interest on loans that are now being granted to banking institutions. This is a civilized path, this is the basis of monetary policy. And that's why our proposal was to support the agricultural sector itself, not just the village, not just the social sphere of the village, and to allocate additional funding for grants of 2 billion dollars, including the reduction of inefficient expenditure. Today, there is a question in the minister’s report that Kabmin does not support our proposal to order the use of the State Reserve’s money, and the government wants to channel an additional 200 million to the purchase of fuel. Our target is the same. But what sources? If you remember, in 2005, sugar-cheese companies were acquired, which was imported into Ukraine, after which the owners were denied this sugar, and this sugar went completely to the state's income. So we suggest, because it's sold, that we start this money to buy fuel, not hide it outside the government budget's income. So we don't mind forming a background, but we're against using other sources. As for another important direction, it's supporting the acquisition of technology for the next leasing, we think it's the most effective mechanism for the use of funds, including from privatization, to further gearing technology to the village. So it's transferred to the village, they're returning to the fund, and there's a renewed process going on. This is already a triangular food system. We can make a renewed resource in the budget. And this proposal is supported by the committee. That's why we're going to try to bring the law into line with our budget conclusions, and I think in this way it can turn from the food budget to the development budget, and it's going to be supported by both the committee and the Supreme Council Hall, and the population of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u170	Igor Yukhnovsky, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u171	Yukhnowsky, “Our Ukraine”. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You're an academic, you're a member of the National Academy of Sciences. I'm also a member of the National Academy of Sciences. Are you and I not going to be able to infiltrate the distinguished Ministry of Finance, the honourable Committee on Budgets, that the modernization of scientific institutions, the establishment of the opt-vocal link and connections with the European system "Joant", the creation of a supercomputer in Ukraine and the connection with the European supercomputer are vital to us and will save us huge amounts of money for Ukraine. And that takes about 130 million dollars. And this investment money is not going to be found in the budget. Do you think Ludmila Pavlovno?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u172	Dear Igor Raphaelovich, as you know, the Budget Committee and the Supreme Council have always supported science. Therefore, our proposals will necessarily take into account the increase in expenditures on fundamental science. I could say that if we didn't have a problem with pension payments today, that's 20 billion dollars that we're handing over as support to the Pension Fund, Igor Raphael's, we'd only use one billion dollars to double the cost of science from that amount. If we wanted to double the expenditure on culture from the State Budget, we'd just spend 500 million. If we wanted to double the cost of social protection in the health system, we would have spent only two billion. So for us, today's pension system would be a huge problem because trying to fulfill the pre-election promises exceeded common sense. We need to make progress so that the fields can be restored in order to support science. Because without the support of science, turning it into just a cashier's cashier's salary for the professor doesn't have any effect on the economy. Therefore, we will maintain the necessary funding for additional fundamental science. And when you look at this document, you're referring to the Budget Act, in the third appendix, this position is going to be supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u173	Thank you, Ludmila Pavlovno, sit down. Dear colleagues, we have a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft State Budget Act. Therefore, before the vote, the author of the draft decision. And what difference does it make, at any moment, is that it might be unacceptable. Yeah, yeah. No, no, maybe. Maybe at any time. Please, Oleg Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u174	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the Chernobyl disaster has in fact become one of the factors behind the genocide of the Ukrainians, organized by the Kremlin and the Bolshevik regime. Unfortunately, communism has not been punished yet, but I am surprised that the current authorities are also starting to pursue policies against socially vulnerable Ukrainian groups, effectively prolonging this genocide. Article 71, paragraph 33. The 6 draft law on Ukraine's State Budget 2006 proposes to halt almost all provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. With regard to social protection for the Chernobyl family, it's also the care of the mothers in the affected children, and the purchase of doctors' prescription drugs, and out-of-office social protection facilities, and first-line care in health care facilities and pharmacies, and compensation for the harmful working conditions in the alienation zone and other benefits and compensation for the loss of health care due to an accident. The Chernobyl law is still almost unfulfilled. Especially in part of the social benefits, since there is a sad Kabmin 836 decree, which unlawfully reduces the size of payments to black people dozens of times. But now that the Chernobylites have started to seek protection of their rights before the courts, Kabin has decided to abolish the benefits laid down by law and to deprive the Chernobylites of the possibility of filing a lawsuit without paying the customs. I would like to remind the honourable government that one of the main provisions of President Yushchenka's electoral programme was the item “the rich will share with the poor”. And this position of the President's program is to be carried out without delay by the government, but the Cabinet's approach to the State budget shows that today the state is actually parasitic to poor, socially vulnerable populations. Moreover, the rule proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers is a violation of as many as 13 articles of the Constitution: 1, 3,6, 8, 16, 22, 24, 43, 46, 49, 50, 64, 68 and contravenes the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 20 March 2002 in the case of aids, compensations and guarantees, which are similar to the suspension of the standards of the Chernobyl law by the State Budget Act 2001 was declared unconstitutional. Therefore, on the basis of paragraphs 2 and 5, part 1, article 3.5. 1 and Article 3.5. 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I ask my colleagues to support and accept paragraph 33.6, article 71 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 and to remove it from the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u175	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to listen to the order of the decision. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we came to such a unanimous conclusion that we should put to the vote the government's first proposal, but before the government's proposal to adopt the draft budget in the second reading and in general as a law of government, we need to vote on the inadmissibility of the draft regulation. But we have to put her to the vote. On the Inadmissibility of an Article, article 76, paragraph 33.6. And then, if we don't make the right decisions, we put to the vote the draft decision proposed by the committee, it's before you. So now, my dear colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote the first draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision, author Oleg Tegnibok, on the inadmissibility of paragraph 33. 6, articles 77, Ukraine’s draft “On Ukraine’s State Budget 2006”, number 8,000. Registration number. Dear colleagues, I read the decree! The registration number of the draft regulation is 8,000-P1. Please vote. Take down the vote. Assadchev, please. Take down the vote. I'm reading a draft state budget number and then a draft regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You know that the budget procedure is governed by the Budget Code. The Budget Code does not provide for a vote on the inadmissibility of second reading. I'll give you an example. Let us imagine that today we are ready to accept the budget, and suddenly we are voting on an article about unacceptableness. The whole balance is broken. And what should we do then? So the budget goes according to its special procedure, which is set out in the Budget Code. And it is consciously stated that there can be no unacceptability in the second reading because it has to do with the financial balance. And I'm asking, because now we're going to reintroduce some new procedures, and then they're going to be guided in the future. Let's not do that. The budget is a balance. And let's think of it as a whole document, or we'll destroy everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! There is indeed a conflict between the Rules, when at any time a draft decision on non-admissibility can be made and nowhere is it set out in the Rules that this does not apply to the budget. I would ask the Rules Committee to make an appropriate amendment, and then we will consider this decision. But now, in order not to violate the Rules and not to argue, I am putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of paragraph 33. 6 article 71 of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2006 number 8,000 and draft regulation number 8,000/P1. Please vote. For - 170. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Communists – 56, Regions – 0, People's Party – 26, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 31, SPU-25, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, SDPU(o) – 17, National Block – 0, “Trust of the People” – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 0, “Only Ukraine” – 6, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 0, non-fractional – 9. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 is now submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 8,000-P-2]] The table of contents is: The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to adopt the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on second reading and in general.” It's a government project. I'm voting on this motion for a ruling. I'd like to make a statement. I'd like to make up my mind. For – 71 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Communists – 0, "Ukraine" – 0, National Party – 0, "Ukraine" – 33, Timoshenko Block – 0, SPI – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 3, SDPU(o) – 0, National Block – 0, "Trust of the People" – 10, "Reforms and Order" – 14, "One Ukraine" – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 0. You are now being reviewed by the Ukrainian Supreme Council Decree on the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers for second reading. Registration number 8,000-P-3. I'll read it. “After reviewing Ukraine’s draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2006, prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers for second reading, and following part three of article 42 of Ukraine’s Budget Code, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: (1) to recognise the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2006, prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for second reading, which does not correspond to the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Act of November 1, 2005, issue 3025-4 “On the approval of the conclusions and proposals for the draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2006; (2) the draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2006 prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the second reading of the return of Ukraine’s Cabinet for the readout of the Second Review of Ukraine’s Final Review of the Second Review of Ukraine’s Final Review of the Review of Ukraine’s Final Review of the Second Review of Ukraine’s Draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2006”. 3. Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers in finalizing the Ukrainian National Budget Bill 2006 to take into account the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including an increase in the estimated expenditure of the 2006 General Fund for Local Budgets compared to the corresponding accounting amount in the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 submitted to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers for first reading. I'm betting on the vote on approval of the draft ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. ‘For’ – 274, Decision taken. Thank you. So, dear fellows, we ask. We've already voted in general. So, dear colleagues, let's go to the Cabinet of Ministers and ask the Cabinet of Ministers, we'll have the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the other committees over the week, to develop a draft budget so that we can have a week to work directly on committees and factions and on the next plenary week that we will have. That is, two weeks from now, to consider and make decisions. The factions, please. Communists. One minute, the motive's over. - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 50, National Party - 44, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Block Timoshenko - 32, SPI - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU(o) -0, National Block 19, "Trust of the People" – 1, "Reforms and Orders" – 0, "Only Ukraine" – 13, The National Movement of Ukraine – 0, The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 14, non-fractional – 19. I'm asking you, Your Honor, we're going to have to make a few more appropriate decisions. The head of the Counting Commission will now provide information. Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce to you the contents of protocol number two meetings of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They heard about the summation of the secret ballot for appointment as a member of the High Council of Justice. In a secret ballot for appointment as a member of the High Council of Justice, Eudemimov’s candidate, Aleksandrovitch, was included in the ballot. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Counting Commission has established: first, the number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized, 427; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who received ballots for secret ballots, 146. In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles of the Eighth Law of Ukraine, “On the Higher Council of Justice”, Chapter 3.7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Counting Commission decided to consider the elections as not taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u179	Dear National Deputies, we have received letters from a disabled organization. We have before us the Act of Ukraine amending some Ukrainian legislation on occupational and labour rehabilitation of disabled persons with proposals from the President of Ukraine. They asked -- and now they're at the Supreme Council -- for us to consider and the Supreme Council to decide. And then we'll reconcile all of our questions that we had. Well, if you don't mind. Well, until we split up. Please, Suškevich. Please. Just a little while longer. We continue our work for 15 minutes to complete our consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, the year is up, our cadence is over. It's the last Day of Disability International in our vocation. I want to thank you for what you've done for the disabled. I'm saying no compliments, because no decision we've initiated from the Disability Committee has failed, none, I emphasize! Thank you, I wish you health. Now there's Law 4595. Twice the President's veto, which was produced, is an incomprehensible veto. I particularly refer to the faction “Our Ukraine”: the President supports the solution to the problems of the disabled, and the language says that the veto is produced and is incomprehensible and cruel. Support the veto and promote the employment of disabled people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Hotch Helen Vasilovna. Dear colleagues, let's stand by. I'm asking you to hold on to the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u182	Good afternoon, Reverend Valery Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies, the Supreme Council, with the right of legislative initiative, each MP, have done much to improve the material security of disabled organizations, but the President has the constitutional right to ask the deputies of the Supreme Council to listen to two of his proposals. The first suggestion is that since this year, since the promulgation of this law, should the Supreme Council overcome the President's veto, budgetary organizations, without funds, will have to pay the Social Protection Fund fines. They're doctors and teachers and stuff. The president's second proposal is that the law provides for the granting of benefits to organizations. It is the will of the Supreme Council, of course, but the Supreme Council passed a law imposing a five - year moratorium. I thank you for your attention and ask you to adopt a law that takes into account your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, according to procedure, I must say.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u184	Turn off the microphone. Well, what is it, Your Honor? I beg you, you've already spoken, and then. Well, you can't do that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The first, according to the Rules, is the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. You have these proposals from the President of Ukraine. If they're not supported, then the next, logically, we're asking the question of overcoming the veto. I am now voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. For – 90 The decision is not taken. Please note that the proposal by the Committee on Overcoming the Veto of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law “To Change Certain Legislations of Ukraine on Professional Labour Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities is being put to the vote. Registration number 4595. Please vote. For – 311 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions, please. We still have a few minutes, dear fellows. May I have your attention, please? The Communist faction – 54, “Ukraine” – 55, National Party – 45, “Ukraine” – 1, Block Timoshenko – 31, SPU – 35, Ukrainian People's Party – 3, SDPU(o) – 19, National Block – 19, “Trust of the People” – 13, “Reforms and Order” – 0, “Ukrainian One” – 15, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 13, non-fractional – 18. A number of factions called for a recess or made statements. Fomenko Katerina Alexandrovna from the faction of the People's Party and the National Block, then Jaroslav Kenzior from “Our Ukraine” and the People's Movement of Ukraine and then Assadchev. We've got 15 minutes to get back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I'm very brief, I'm on behalf of those who are now under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and under the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Today, almost 4,000 representatives of Ukraine's regions, and this is the measure of cities, this is the heads of rural, rural councils, and it is the MPs of all levels who have come to participate in the discussion of the draft State Budget Act for second reading. I'm authorized by them to make a statement to you today, Your Honorable People's Deputies. “Decision of the open joint session of the council of all Ukrainian cities to which the rural councils are invited, on 1 December 2005, the city of Kiev: [[rural]] 1. We demand the resignation of the finance minister of Ukraine, Victor Pinzenic. 2. We urge the Government of Ukraine to sit down at the table of negotiations with local governments and decide on the financing of local budgets for education, health care, and culture according to the rules of law. 3. In the event that we continue to ignore our demands, we refuse full powers as non-financial resources to be exercised by the State. Support the work of the Budget Committee, the first reading of the 2006 budget, and provide additional five billion resources to local budgets as a standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u186	Jaroslav Kenzior, please, from “Our Ukraine”, the People's Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u187	Statement by the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. As early as December 1, 1991, the Ukrainian people had approved the Ukrainian Independence Act of August 24, 1991. This was the first programming goal of the Ukrainian People’s Movement, and then of the Ukrainian people, our nation restored its Ottoman independence. The period of the struggle for statehood has come to an end and an era of state-building, strengthening and protecting its institutions has begun, filling them with national and democratic content. This unique unity, reflected by the results of the referendum, has confirmed once again the immortality of Ukraine’s State Independence and Assembly. The ideas of which millions of Ukrainians have fought heroically for centuries without sacrificing their energy by sacrificing their lives. This situation, which has proved to be the first lesson for all of us in order to achieve our goal. The second demonstrated unity led to the victory of the united patriotic, democratic, and reformist forces during the orange revolution and the election of Victor Yushchenk, president of Ukraine. Today, there are attempts by various formers to split society for the restoration of the clan-oligarchy regime. The artificial opposition of various regions of Ukraine, the inflaming of religious, ethnic enmity, and social conflicts have become part of politics as a political element. For cheap dividends, the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine are at stake. We call on everyone who cares about the fate of Ukraine, the future of our children and grandchildren, to remember the only impulse on December 1, 91, and to unite in the 2006 elections to establish a new Ukrainian authority that would work for the benefit and prosperity of the Ukrainian people and benefit from its support and trust. We need a strong, prosperous and democratic state. We need a consolidated Ukrainian nation, we need a self-sufficient, compulsive, beautiful Ukraine. With your celebration, respected fellow countrymen, distinguished colleagues, national deputies, the glory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there are still requests for intermissions from the factions of the PRP and the Reform and Order Party, the Ukrainian People's Party, as well as from the regions of Ukraine and the communists, I think they will make statements after the break. Well, two, so I can't do two. Well, they won't be able to make two applications. We can't make it. Well, after the break. Please. Well, someone else will. What difference does it make? Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u189	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted a budget vote, but you didn't give it to me, so I'm already on to the fact that it was voted. I understand the need to criticize the government and there is a reason, but the Supreme Council must maintain legal cleanness when making appropriate decisions. Article 42, paragraph 3, on the rejection of the law, has a reference to paragraph 2 and the Supreme Council has the right to re-read the second reading only when the macro-indicators of the budget have changed by more than 2%. There is no such change and it is not even fixed in the decision. And that's why you can think of this as just a political step on the part of the Supreme Council. I just wanted to let you know, but I don't know how they're going to comment on it anymore, but that's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u190	Well, we said there was a discrepancy between the Budget Code, in this case and between the Rules. I asked the committee to make an appropriate proposal so that we could eliminate this conflict. That's it. We have one minute, please. If Bondarenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u191	Statement by the faction of the political party “Reforms and Orders”. Recently, Kyiv city authorities led by Alexander Omelchenk, who is also the head of the Ukrainian City Association, have carried out a number of actions related to the budgetary financing of cities and, in particular, the capital. In our view, the organizers of these actions, speculating on the real financial difficulties of the local budgets, aim primarily to discredit the activities of the President of Ukraine and the government and to increase their own ratings before the elections. The Reform and Order Party has always and consistently advocated the right of local communities to self-manage land, financial resources and property, and to actually fill local budgets. Today, it also upholds the just demands of local communities. At the same time, we do not want to let those local self - government officials who really led him to his destruction become parasites. In particular, it is the capital's leadership, which is distracting the public and the government's leadership from the real problems of Kiev and the financial bankruptcy of the city. We cannot silence the fact that foreign capital lending already in 2008 will require the repayment of 850 million dollars to creditors, and in 2011 it will be 1 billion. At the same time, the city’s development budget is now only 630 million. Who will repay those debts that are now embroiled by the city’s authority? We need to answer the question of why Kiev's leadership borrows 8 percent of its annuals while the Ministry of Finance receives the same loans under 4.95. Where are the 3 percent that Kyiv today owed? And why is this money deposited in commercial banks and not in Der Treasury? We would like to get an answer to the question, Why is the vastly expensive Kyiv land not sold out and sold out? We already see the results of the “Cruvoristal” auction, why then the Kiev city land in thousands of hectares goes into the hands of individual deputies and individual parts, which are then reselled to the secondary market. Also, we would like to know where the Kiev, once communal, hotels went? Where is the sale going today, or the work that goes around the ipodre and many other objects. So what we're talking about is that today, at budget costs, the city is being used irrationally. I would like to point out that only 70 million dollars are available for repairs by the Kiev City State Administration, 100, probably millions or more, because this is classified. Also, about 40 million are being financed by the Kyiv City Administration’s pocket media. We also know that every deputy in Kyivrada today receives about a million dollars a year for the needs of his district. Is there such good in the heads of cities that came here and brought their people to the call of an association? Obviously not. They should know the truth that money is being wasted in one city today, and in another it is not enough even for urgent needs. So I would like to point out that any desire to discredit the power of today's Kiev city authorities, they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m0.u192	Dear National Deputies! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 16 hours we will continue our work according to the schedule of meetings for Thursday.
