ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:09:23]] They registered in the 335 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to request a card to place you in the nest, because more national deputies than registered are in the session room. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies: Vladimir Boyka, Vladimir Seminovič Boyka, as well as Hennady Vasilovich Gorlov. Let us welcome our colleagues in the person of Matthew and wish them good health. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished colleagues, have just held a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Let me inform you about the results of our work. We agreed to work this way: to consider the first question -- economic and social information, the second question -- to agree to the appointment of Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov of Ukraine, to consider the third question -- to include in the agenda and to decide on the creation of special commissions to investigate the resonances that have recently emerged in our lives. In fact, almost everyone, all the leaders of the MPs and factions, voted in favour of making a positive decision on the third issue. Then we'll move on to the questions that we have. What, what? Well, now we are. The oath is clear, and we have agreed that the vote will be positive on the third issue. We'll follow the schedule for Tuesday. For reasons, please write down five minutes to exchange your thoughts. And please prepare for the oath of our colleagues. Yes, on board, please, Kuharczuk, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u2	Not yet. Please give the floor to the leader of the Petr Mikolaiovich Simonek faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u3	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u4	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The Communist faction is proposing and will insist that we first consider draft Law 8155 on the establishment of a special interim commission to investigate the sources of funding for the President's electoral campaign and the political forces that have just benefited from the money of the Berezovian and the American. In this case, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we insist that this issue be addressed urgently, because we have the issue of national betrayal, the issue of what forms a puppet government and puppet power as a whole in the state. A question that relates to the promises made on the field and what is being done to the people of Ukraine today when Ukraine appears and is being sold. So a faction of Communists after taking an oath asks and begs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u5	Yes, Peter Kachur, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I agree to be Paul Kachure, so my parents baptized me. Well, if I may, I would. I have a request for you: the registration showed that some of the deputies are sitting in the hall, but they don't have cards. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a request. Please give me an assignment. You can see people just lost their cards. They're sitting there and they can't work properly. Now, please pass the word to Kendzior Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u7	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u8	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement. In response to the offer made by Communist leader Simonek, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I propose that this week we prepare and consider the activities in Ukraine of the Russian Communist Party branch and its anti - Ukrainian activities and the successive financing of this fifth column of the Russian Federation, the Russian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u9	Alexander. I'm asking you, it's said when the question is finished. We haven’t had five minutes. It'll be all right, please. Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u10	Alexander Bandurka, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party Dear colleagues, we have a very busy schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council this Sunday. Our faction supports the issues that have been raised and is now under consideration. We suggest that we proceed immediately to the daily routine without delay. And the questions that the Conciliation Commission has agreed on will be supported by the numerical faction itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u11	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u12	Thank you. I would like to ask a question in the context of the presence here and the candidate in the Prime Minister and the executive responsibility of the government, the ministers of the Ukrainian government. We have a suggestion that the government is now fulfilling its responsibilities. But I'm interested in both as a national MP and my constituents, what were the reasons for the removal from power of the government and Prime Minister Timoshenko, which economic errors or what calculations will the government of Yehanurov make? This, I think, must be the main question that we have to answer. I think that the consultations with Kuchma have been received, but nevertheless I would like to know exactly what steps will be taken, and exactly what prompted the President to resign the Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u13	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u14	Thank you. Please give the word to the head of the Alexander Frost faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u15	Alexander Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The order you have proposed is agreed upon by the heads of factions and groups in Parliament. He's in. I think there's no doubt that getting guarantees from faction leaders that the proposal to create appropriate temporary commissions would be accepted. Maybe you'd like to create one commission to look at all these issues. I would like to ask the members of the interim commission of inquiry working on constitutional laws to meet today at 2:15 p.m. for my meeting to consider draft law 3207, under the number that came from the Constitutional Court. This is an extremely important matter, and I hope that the appearance will be complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u17	I see, fellows of honor. The replica. Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u18	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, we are not afraid of such an investigation and are prepared to do so. Because these political forces that are offering, they've been robbing the results of our work for 15 years, they won't get the factories and factories, they won't shut down the hospitals and schools that we built and built. That's the first one. Secondly, this confirms the fairness of our statement that these political forces impose the ideology of ours. And the third thing I want to say is, reminding someone that the circus is already gone, but the clowns are still.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on the proposed schedule of meetings. I would like, my fellow Communist faction, to support the same sequence that is proposed on the Conciliation Council. A positive result of the vote will be guaranteed. We actually agreed that everyone under the transcript said they were going to vote for it. Peter Mikolaiovich, there's a decision. I'd like you to, uh, support me for once. I will be speaking, Peter Mikolaiovich, as we made a unanimous decision. Now there will be no effective vote. Peter Mikolaiovich, we made a decision. I'm asking you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the decision of the Conciliation Council. Let's do it. Now for the announcement, please. Announcement. On joining the faction, the deputy faction of the political party "Go, Ukraine" of David's Ludmila, and in this regard, on the exit from the "One Ukraine" faction. Another ad, my dear fellows. True, there are two options for an ad, please listen carefully. In accordance with article 4.2.1, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine since 8 September 2005, I shall inform you of the exclusion of the national deputy of Khosovský Volodymyr Sergiyovich from the Socialist Party’s parliamentary faction. And there's also a statement directly from Goshovsky about the exit from the MP faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. But since the faction's decision was on September 8th, and accordingly it came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the application was dated September 10, that is, announced the first decision -- the decision of the faction. This is in line with the Rules. Honourable People's Deputies, on September 12, 2005, the Central Electoral Commission registered with the People's Deputies of the Gluhiv region of Lviv Josephovich, Stupak Vladimir Fedorovic, Marchenk Alexander Volodymyrovic and Porovsky Mikol Ivanovich in a multi-national constituency constituency from the political bloc of the Block of Viktor "Our Ukraine". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of the Ukraine, Glukhivsky Leo Josipovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u20	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I am committed to defending Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Let us welcome Lviv Josephovich and wish our fruitful work together. And immediately in line with articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the entry of the Deaf Lion of Josephovich into the Ukrainian People’s Movement. The National Deputy of Ukraine Stupak, Vladimir Fedorovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u22	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, let us welcome Vladimir Fedorovich as he joins the House of Deputies. Yes, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you of the presence of Stupak Vladimir Fedorovic as part of the Ukrainian People's Party's Dept. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Marcenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u24	I, Marcenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine, commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare and well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen, to serve the Lord God faithfully.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u25	Let's say hello to Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, he read. A man bragged, it's okay. What did he do? Huh? What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u26	And that's what he said at the end, he said. Now we're going to find out by the transcript, then we're going to find out. Dear colleagues, please. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Prowsky Mikola Ivanovich, is invited. Mikola Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u27	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Mikola Porowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u28	Yes. Let's welcome Mikola Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is under review with the State Committee of Statistics on the state of economic and social development of Ukraine. Rapporteur of the Head of the State Committee of Statistics, Osaulenko Alexander Grigorovich We agreed on this Rules of Procedure: 15 minutes for information and 15 minutes for questions that are likely to arise from the deputies to clarify and clarify the overall picture of the economic and social processes that are taking place in Ukraine. Is there no objection? Thank you. Alexander Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear Yuri Ivanovich and members of the government present! To implement the decision of the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council, let me brief you on the results of Ukraine's socio-economic development in the current year. According to the same decision, you, the distinguished national MPs, have been provided with detailed material on the subject. Therefore, because of the limited regulation, I will be as concise as possible in my information. The economic situation that has now taken place in the country is rather complex and ambiguous. On the one hand, economic growth continues, so GDP increased by 2.8 percent in 8 months this year. On the other hand, the rate of this increase has slowed significantly, both in comparison with the previous year and with the beginning of this year. Let me remind you that last year's GDP rose by 12.1 percent, and this year began with 6.5 percent of January's growth. For the sake of objectivity, first of all, it should be noted that the socio-economic processes and results that have taken place today are largely derived from the previous stages of our economy. So what are the ingredients that account for today’s economic performance? The most important component of GDP is how industry is known. Its share of the total output is about 50 percent. In the current year, the industry continued to slow down the growth rate, which began in the second quarter of last year and resulted in a 3.5 percent increase in January-August this year. I remind you that last year this figure was 12.5 percent. The main integral factor that has affected industrial dynamism is that in Ukraine there has never been a competitive, internally oriented production structure. A high base last year, formed as a result of a favourable situation in the external markets, also marked a deterioration in the current year’s situation. The predominant raw materiality of the national industrial sector makes it directly dependent on the environment of the external markets, making it about 70 percent of the world’s raw materials. These trends are particularly striking in the case of two basic industries: metallurgy and oil processing, which were estimated to have been in absolute decline in production volumes for 8 months compared to the previous year. The weight of the metal industry is known to be about 70 percent. They account for about 43 percent of Ukraine’s total exports. And in many commodity positions, exports account for almost 100 percent of the production. Thus, the sharp fall in prices of metal production in world markets has had a very negative impact on the work of the industry. A negative impact on the state of the steel industry, too, was the price situation in the internal market. In the last two years, prices of raw material, coke, and iron ore have soared, as well as tariffs for freight transport of metal by rail. This led to a substantial increase in the production of metallurgy and resulted in a decrease in demand on both the inside of the country and abroad. As a result of the combined action of the named factors starting in the second half of last year, the growth rate of metallurgy has slowed dramatically. In the current year, this trend has increased and in eight months the volume of metallurgy has decreased by 3.2 percent. Another industry that reduced its production volume by 8.6 percent in eight months was the production of coke and oil. This was primarily due to an unstable supply situation, including donor oil. The volume of basic petroleum products from the supply chain exceeds 40 percent. At the same time, for comparison, high production growth rates have been maintained in domestic-oriented industries. In the food industry -- 14 percent, in the wood industry -- 20 percent, in the paper and paper industry -- 12 percent. In agriculture, which accounts for about 10 percent of GDP, the increase in production in eight months was 2.2 percent. Last year, during a similar period, the rate of growth was more than 32 percent and was largely due to the very high yield of crops last year. In the current year, crop production is expected to fall by between 5 and 7 percent against last year's crop yield, primarily by a decrease of 3.3 percent, including by 2.5 percent under grain crops, and also by a decrease in yield. In addition, there is a steady trend in the production of animal production during the year. Yeah, she made 4.6 percent in January-August. Including, and this is an extremely interesting enterprise -- 15.5 percent. In the transport sector, there is also a decrease in the volume of freight traffic, which has been reduced by 3.3 percent in 8 months of the current year. The decrease in freight traffic took place on air, rail, sea, and pipeline transport. In order to understand the main reasons for this, it should be noted that the decrease in the volume of goods shipped by, for example, rail transport is almost entirely correlated with the decrease in production volumes for the relevant product groups: coke, oil, black metals, and so on. In other words, the less we produce, the less we transport. In the current year, construction production decreased by 7.5 percent. Many construction companies did not make equivalent contracts last year. The downsizing of construction has been significantly influenced by the work of engineering companies, including more than a quarter of the number of enterprises that run highways, pipelines, telecommunications and power lines, and so on. The positive thing about construction is that in the first half of this year, 2.9 million square meters of total housing were introduced, or 7.2 percent more than in the corresponding period of last year. At the same time, during the reporting period, 8.3 of the construction work was reduced, and this should be emphasized by the negative impact on the construction volume in the future. Regrettably, the growth of investments in capital has slowed significantly. In the first half of the year, they grew by 8.5 percent, while last year they grew by 32 percent. As in previous years, the main source of investment in capital is the equity of enterprises, which accounted for 65 percent of the capital. At the same time, the share of the State budget was reduced by 3.3 times and was only 2.7 times the total amount of capital. In terms of the volume of foreign direct investment, they increased by $491 million or 5.7 percent compared to the beginning of the year. It should be noted that in the first half of last year, this increase was 573 million or 17 percent more. In the current year, there have been serious changes in external economic performance. First of all, in the foreign trade of goods. Thus, in 7 months of this year, the positive trade balance was only $118 million compared to two and a half billion last year. Based on current trends, this balance can be expected to become negative in the near future. The sharp decline in the trade surplus is due to the slowdown in the export growth of goods to 7.6 percent and the sharp increase in imports, which increased by 24.3 percent. The profound causes of such fundamental changes require careful study. In our view, they lie primarily in the scope of measures taken to detune foreign trade activities that were used by the authorities. Among the legal reasons for the decline in export growth are also the re-evaluation of the US dollar and the decrease in the production volume of products in the export-oriented sectors of the economy, as I mentioned earlier. With regard to the significant increase in import volumes, it is also linked to a decrease in import tariff pressure and to decisions taken to stimulate imports. Ambiguity has also arisen in domestic trade. Thus, against the corresponding period of last year, domestic trade had fallen by 4.3 percent. At the same time, the retail trade increased by nearly two percent, and the wholesale, which includes the left share, about 80 percent, on the other hand, fell by almost 10 percent. Such sharp changes in wholesale trade have taken place, including through measures to detune Ukraine’s economy. It means eliminating the benefits and privileges of individual firms, increasing the fight against the illegal return of VAT, and so on. The economic situation in the economy has a mixed effect on the financial situation of enterprises. Thus, in 9 months of the current year, profits increased by 34 percent, which is certainly a positive one. At the same time, the increase in profits was mainly due to industrial enterprises, with an increase of almost 70 percent today due to the increase in the producer price index, which is actually an intensive factor. And by the end of the year, we can expect a deterioration in the impact of the price factor on the volume of industrial income. At the same time, they continue to have a negative impact on the economy. It increased against last year, both by 5 percent, and the share of businesses that are now 35.7 percent of the total. The price situation in the consumer market since the beginning of this year has been influenced by a number of factors that can be attributed to rising prices for fuel-oil materials, utilities and rents and so on. As is clear, the consumer price index was 6.7 percent in 8 months of the current year, which is now higher than in the same period last year, when it was 4.3 percent. In this regard, since inflation has increased in the second half of the year for several years in a row, the increase in inflation is a cause for concern. To sum up the results of the economic analysis, one can conclude that there are two main factors for slowing down economic growth today: this is an unfavourable economic environment in the external markets and, secondly, the deterioration of the investment climate for a number of reasons. The latter is confirmed by a serious shift in GDP structure towards a decline in the gross accumulation of capital, which is the basis of investment activities due to an increase in population consumption. And there have been devastating changes here that cannot help but be disturbed. To understand the causes of this phenomenon, we need to look at social indicators. The social dimension of economic policy, which has been declared and implemented by the government in the current year, has led to a significant increase in social guarantees and the income of the population. So the average monthly nominal salary in January-July 1.6 times exceeded the legal minimum for working persons 453 bracelets was 741 bracelets, 34 percent more than the corresponding period last year. A systematic increase in minimum wage has contributed to a reduction in the proportion of workers who receive wages below the minimum wage for a working person. During this time, some of them fell by almost nine percent compared to the corresponding period last year. The real salary for January-July increased by 17.5 percent. The stability of wage increases during this year has led to a significant increase in the standard of living. Yes, in seven months this year, compared to the same period in the past, nominal income increased by 44 percent and real by almost 26. At the same time, the rise in population income in the current year is mainly due to an increase in social assistance twice and social transfers one and a half times. This trend has been observed since the second half of last year. This dynamic of social benefits has led to an imbalance in the structure of the general population’s income. Yes, the proportion of these payments for January-July increased to 45.6 percent, while the drinking weight of wages, which is actually the basis for their pay, on the other hand, decreased to 41. However, the problem is that wages and production levels are not adequate at an appropriate rate. As I said before, the rate of GDP growth and key sectors are significantly behind the pace of income growth and wage growth. One that, in turn, creates preconditions for the emergence of additional socio-economic imbalances, one of the manifestations of this, in our view, is the restoration of the growth in the current year of the total amount of payment of wages, as opposed to the previous year's debt reduction trend. I'd like to conclude that the socio-economic situation today is very difficult, but at the same time, to our deep conviction, it is fully managed and can continue to improve significantly because of the reconciliation of all branches of government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, Alexander Grigorovich Osaulenko presented the information. Please sign up for a question, if any. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u31	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u32	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u33	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The distinguished rapporteur has informed you of our request yesterday on the Conciliation Board that you speak not in relative numbers, characterizing the economy, but in some absolute terms of how the internal market is being filled? You're talking about interest. By percentage, people do not feed and percentages do not move people. How does a construction complex develop? How many homes are built for the people in square meters, millions? Compared to the 1990s, please imagine. How many machines do we have, let's say, with private software? How many buses did the cars release? What is the purchasing power of humans? What are the prices in markets and so on? You are now once again deceiving people because the Central Statistical Office has become a mechanism for destroying the statehood and destroying the domestic producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u34	Alexander Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u35	I thank you for the question, Your Honor, Peter Mikolaiovich. Well, first of all, once again, I'm saying that people's deputies are given detailed material on this question, which has all the answers to the questions that you're asking. As far as housing is concerned, I said that 2.9 million people have been introduced this year. sq.m. meters. Unfortunately, we're still, so to speak, away from that level. Well, we're about 40 percent up to that level in the '90s. Something like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u36	Alexander Grigorovich, then I ask you, if it doesn't satisfy the answers now, then you gave the answer in writing, additional information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u37	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u38	Well, if you're not ready to give now? Please, George Skudar microphone, faction of the Ukraine region.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u39	Dear rapporteur, you have told us all and all the people that industrial production is falling sharply, that the export-import balance is declining dramatically. If we had $4 billion last year, we'll have zero by the end of the year. You also said that nearly 40 billion dollars had increased in the country, with GDP likely to be equal by the end of the year. GDP growth will be zero. Please tell me, what are your estimates of the situation, economic situation and social protection of the population by the end of this year as a result of this country's leadership? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. In my presentation, I said all the information that yes, indeed, there are negative trends in many sectors of Ukraine's economy that are ultimately reflected in the volumes and rates of gross domestic product as an integral indicator. But I also stressed, and once again, I want to emphasize that these trends are not the birth of this year. If you look at these graphs that we gave you, you'll see that the decline in the volume of industrial production started in the second quarter of last year, the pace began to decline, and at a very high rate. Just as this led to a decline in GDP growth from the second half of last year. So we reap the results of all the policy problems, the economics, in this case, the macroeconomic ones that have been in all of the years of independence. It's just that right now they're colliding with this kind of political situation, and it's obviously getting worse. But I think the situation is now approaching stability at a certain level, not at the same high rate as before, but stability, after which we can expect a further recovery of economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u41	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. My dear reporter, from your report and from the materials you've given us, it's obvious to me how long ago it's been obvious that the country is in a deep economic crisis that the previous government and previous governments have led to. But you're giving a percentage of the wage increase of 17.5. And why didn't you write separately to the government that four times was raised there so that we could see in the tables. Industrial production is a colossal decline in the production of coke, petroleum products and so on. Why, did the government question that such a curve is going down inevitably and fearfully? Did you or did you not? Is this just your first attempt to say some true things and not the end? I'm sure I can tell by these numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u43	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. First of all, the situation in the economy that is reflected in the social sphere has been repeatedly addressed by the government. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not a member of the government, and I'm not always there. But I have seen this situation many times before. Appropriate measures have been taken, and complexes have been developed. Sadly, though, I repeat, the situation has now gone down objectively. That's true. As far as wages are concerned, unfortunately, as I've already told you, some kind of scissors have come out. When the economy is slowing down, on the other hand, there is a high rate of wage growth, with most categories. And this, unfortunately, leads to a imbalance in the economy. We all know that the rate of growth in wages and social benefits should match the rate of growth in the economy. Unfortunately, not yet, and this is, unfortunately, one of the main problems for today. If this situation is not rectified, serious problems will continue. As far as government salaries are concerned, they are reflected in the table in the field of government. And they have a corresponding effect on the level of wages in this area, which is shown in the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u45	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear reporter, Calinchuk, Odščina, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. The real salary has increased, as you say, by 17.8%. I'd like to find out, and the concrete increase in agricultural wages, not in the APC, but in agriculture, is the first. And how has the purchasing power of our population increased in connection with the increase in wages? Has it increased at all or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. When we talk about wage levels, we're talking about nominal, on the one hand an indicator, on the other hand a real indicator. I called both of these indicators. Real, exactly 17 and a half percent. This has increased real wages, that is, wages taking into account the price factor. Here, this is already taking on nominal wages and counting on the impact of the price factor. As far as agriculture is concerned. Sadly, the situation is still improving very slowly. In agriculture today, virtually the lowest wage. That was 483 bracelets in July, with an average economy of 837 bracelets. It's a serious breakup -- almost twice. And that's the subject of serious work. Although if you look at the rate of wage increases in the village, it has increased at a higher rate than on average in the economy. If, on average, the economy has grown by 37 percent, in the village about 49 percent, but so far, the backlog is very large and it's the subject of serious work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u48	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear reporter, I hope you understand that I invited you here, to the Supreme Council, to give you a picture of a certain activity of the government. And a lot of people wanted to use your speech from the national MPs here to say, see, even statistical administration, even statistics say that the government has acted badly. You didn't give a picture, you didn't illustrate it. So the question to you is, was it according to that body that you run, or according to statistical authority, that there were government estimates that would have caused his resignation? Does the statuse hold similar figures, or was there a collapse in Ukraine of economic, financial and what reasons do you think your department could have caused the government and Prime Minister Timoshenko to resign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. I perform as a professional on this rostrum. I am not a politician because of my position. First of all, I'm a professional and a high-ranking civil servant, right. You know that ministers don't have rank. The question you're asking, it's probably in the political plane and the President's decision regarding the appointment or release of the Prime Minister, is the President's prerogative, not mine, in all respect for the question you've asked. As to how the government worked. As in any government, there have been strong steps, there have been calculations, there is no government at all, no government at all, no government at all, no government at all, no government at all, no government at all. Not only in a socio-economic situation, but also in a political situation. I thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u51	Mikola Stepanov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u53	Alexander Alexander Moroz, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u54	Dear Alexander Grigorovich, you could not explain the method of calculating prices for certain types of goods. Here you show August of this year against August of last year, up 18 percent to meat and poultry prices. Ask anyone and yourself, ask your wife to say twice the price has gone up. That's basic. The other one. I have a lot of questions on your report, on your information. I have only one effect on the decline in GDP growth, please tell me? And how can the indicators be compared, particularly in the agro-industrial complex, if last year, in a number of areas, crop subscriptions amounted to about 30 percent, these facts are already confirmed, can we believe this index, especially in the APC? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u55	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Three very serious and complex questions. As always. The first is about inflation. The indicator of inflation, I don't want to, I apologize here as a lecturer, is the most serious and sensitive in terms of the perception of its population -- it's in any country that there is such a problem. In any country, when my colleagues go to the rostrum and report inflation or when inflation is discussed in the press, there are always a lot of questions. Because, in fact, the subjective perception of each person, including even the high level and politicians, is not exactly the answer to the methods that have been put in place. As far as methods are concerned, Alexander Alexanderovich, they are completely international, the only ones in the entire civilized world we've been using them for years. We've been constantly vetted and vetted by both international organizations and, in fact, by politicians within the country, we don't close, I'm willing to show you the accounts, including each product group. There's a specific calculation that's, let's say, first of all, accounting in all regions. One situation in Kiev, where there is indeed a catastrophic increase, and there are areas where the situation is much different, including meat, and it is important to watch the drinking weight of eating meat in the regions, depending on the population and so on and so forth. So it's consumption, population consumption structure, structure, population by region, the rate of price rise, the integral rate you're talking about. I'm ready to meet you, Alexander Alexanderovich, to lay everything down in front of you, so that you can see if there's anything wrong with you to correct us. That's the first one. The second is about re-evaluation. I think that the situation with rebalancing has two dimensions, on the one hand, the situation in the economy now is, if you let go of the course, just in free navigation, what international organizations require, which is once again done by the National Bank, the rate of the bracelets has increased by 4.7 per dollar, is a real situation in the financial market. I ask questions to myself and many to my colleagues: how can it be when the rate of economic growth is falling, and the currency wants to revel in itself? So there are serious imbalances in the economy that need to be addressed. But the situation that was made with recalculation, I was definitely against it. I think that, I said that, she hit the exporters and finally hit our country's balance of payments, if you'll excuse me. And the third is about the APC index. Well, Alexander Alexanderovich, you're an expert, you know perfectly well that last year there was a good crop of grains. There is a method of calculation that is again consistent with international approaches. On the other hand, the Attorney General’s Office after the scandal that arose, you remember that in the past year, when we had a shortage of bread, my employees are now on their way to every area for tests. You know, I don't even know how to risk anything to be attributed in this situation, even if someone wanted to, because, really, very strict control, I'm not talking about us people not being interested in this, and they're running this account anymore. We don't have any interest. I want them to understand me correctly. If there are facts, let us check. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor. Time's up. Dear colleagues, well, I can't make another 25 national deputies. Well, please. Dear colleagues! We have heard information from the State Committee of Statistics about the state of economic and social development of Ukraine. ’ convinced that this will help us to determine our position more clearly when we consider the next question. Dear colleagues, two factions approached the head of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, and One Ukraine, with a proposal to announce a recess for consultations before considering the issue of consenting to the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Which is what I do when I announce my break for 11 hours 30 minutes. Please hold consultations, reconcile positions, and then we'll move on to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and come into the session room. Honorary colleagues, in the work of Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is taking part in the work of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko. Let's welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 85, 106 and 114 of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's Constitution, are appointed by the President of Ukraine by agreement more than half of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On 13 September, the President of Ukraine made a proposal to the Supreme Council for the approval of the Supreme Council for the appointment of Jehanurov Yuri Ivanovich as Prime Minister of Ukraine. As stipulated in the Rules, Yuri Ivanovich met with factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But before we had to move on to the issue of granting approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine as Prime Minister of Ukraine Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich, two factions -- the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc and the only Ukraine -- took a recess to hold consultations. In accordance with the Rules, they are entitled to announce the results of the consultations. Three minutes, please, Sergey Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u58	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Honourable. In accordance with article 84 of the Ukrainian Constitution, voting at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is carried out by the Ukrainian National Deputies personally. According to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the Constitutional case of the President of Ukraine on the official interpretation of parts two and three of article 84, parts two and four of article 94 of the Constitution on the right to vote and reconsider the laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 7.07.98 No. 11 of the EP/98. The position of part three of article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the holding of a popular vote at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine means its direct election irrespective of the voting method. That is, the Ukrainian national deputy does not have the right to vote in favour of other Ukrainian national deputies at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With a view to ensuring this constitutional requirement, we invite you, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, in accordance with section 2 of article 3.1.6 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, to conduct by electronic means the roll-over of Ukrainian national deputies present at the meeting, to report to the Supreme Council on the number of deputies who are known to be missing for important reasons and to instruct the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the results of the electronic registration with written registration and to lock down the cards of all missing persons at the meeting of the Supreme Council of National Deputies. Helpful. At 10 p.m., 87 national deputies were not registered at the registration desks for violating the requirements of article 3.1.6 of Part 1. In accordance with the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council, the national deputies of Klukkowski, Katusev, Bronnikov, Kruczkov, Dáwimuk, Joulinski are in charge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we finish this discussion and proceed to the vote, we will conduct a card registration. Once the Secretariat gives us the final data on the absence of people for any reason of dispatch or illness, we'll make the decision as required by the regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of the procedure for considering the granting of approval to the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich. This procedure is universal. Because it was determined by the 1996 Supreme Council Order and confirmed by the 1999 decree. For a presentation on the main directions of the new Cabinet of Ministers' activities, the candidate for the post, i.e. the Prime Minister of Ukraine, is given up to 30 minutes. For 45 minutes, national deputies have the right to ask questions, more specifically the possibility of asking a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Within 45 minutes, the President's proposed candidate, as well as the main activities of Kabminu, with which the candidate for the post, took office as Prime Minister of Ukraine. We agreed that there would be authorized MPs and factions. The decision to grant approval for the appointment of the Prime Minister shall be made by means of a roll-call vote. No warning? None. Thank you. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko, has the floor. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear friends, distinguished representatives of the media! Convinced that in every country there are times, moments when there are challenges against which national elites and, above all, political ones must form an effective position and reaction. What is happening in Ukraine today is, in my opinion, the moment when the political elite of the nation should come together, based on the country's higher interests, and give an assessment and answer to the challenges that we have. I am convinced that, apart from the people in this room, no one will do this work. So I urge you today neither to intrigue nor to war, not to profit from the country, not to make wars, not to employ a few people, but to speak honestly of the interests of the nation and the state. I'm convinced that this is the only base, friends, where we can all win for the sake of the nation and the people. Everything else is steps that are sooner or later being abused by the political forces that are going to be involved. I often remember the situation in 1948 when in Germany, after three years of occupation, there were neither economic reforms nor monetary reforms, and the price of everything was measured either by a pack of cigarettes or by a box of matches. The nation did not believe in anything. Only the elite, together, signed a Stability Pact, and began to demonstrate to each other political partners, business partners, trade unions, bankers, and so forth things that could be grouped together. I'd like to give my vision of what's going on, and obviously some evaluation. Convinced, dear friends, that today is not the fate of Yehanurov, whether he is Prime Minister or not. Today, our fate is decided by Parliament, the President, to respond effectively to the ability to ensure stability in Ukraine. This is a test that needs to be passed by Parliament. Believe me, I know how it went tonight, and in what forest, and with what powers. Sadly, I would not want the money to work again. I ask you, my friends, to swear today solely on moral grounds. Guys, I'm asking that today's state and moral moments work. Now I wanted to explain what was going on. I am convinced that the country has a cynical plan for the destruction of power, a cynical plan. In doing so, some from the field were involved, and some who wanted to get rid of it were such a strange alliance. And we're on our way to the ruins, dear friends. That authority, that image that we had today, is inexorably shrinking. And this is a test for all of us. And so I would like to explain a number of steps that I, as President, have taken, including in relation to the government. The previous government had involved itself in an unfavorable game, part of this scenario. But I'll start in order. We started a financial, economic and political year with what we did to the economic programme, the goal of which was, based on the resources we had at the beginning of the economic year, to send them, first of all, to pay, to retire, to finance childhood and maternity programs. These were clear four priorities. Wages are raised by 57 percent according to the budget, pensions for the first time in the history of Ukraine are brought to a minimum of living, programs for childhood, three times or four times. By means of programs to mothers, they are raised from five to 11 times. Then, before this course, resources that did not exist began to be shared, promised to give what was not available in the country. The economy has begun to respond to this trend of politics. Since there was a question here to explain why I resigned the previous government, I would like to name a few numbers. During the eight months of 2005, gross product growth slowed by 2.32 times. If they were 6.5 at the beginning of the year, today they're going to be minus 1.6 percent. We have a dynamic below the previous year, or the overall rate of gross product growth has decreased more than five times. It's a base for budgeting, social programs and stuff. The other one. The growth rate of industrial production has slowed by 2.4 times, and agriculture by 1.7 times. If we're talking about other bases and trade, export, import, seven months this year's trade balance, which was January-July last year, was 2.6 billion. The bracelet, it's practically gone to zero today. We were left with a two - week surplus. That's 118 million. That's what I'm talking about. 118 million That's what I'm talking about. I am convinced that a huge service was done in this regard by the free policy of the customs audit, which was conducted a few months ago. [[Applause]] Let's move on, dear friends, there's still a lot of taxes that entrepreneurs pay in advance. In the first half of the year, payments increased to six billion dollars, or 29.3 percent of the revenues, I repeat, 29.3 percent of the revenues mobilized by the government tax administration of Ukraine in the first half of the year. These are business claims. The outstanding amount of VAT for 01.09 is 2.6 billion. That's right. These are the things that I promised my friends, speaking to Majdan and the Ukrainian Parliament, that we will not have them in economic practice. I'm not going to go into the details of other economic indicators, for example the inflation rate, where, we all understand, there are serious imbalances in the human consumption budget, serious, caused by price increases for one group of goods. Debt from wages increased by 15.9 percent. I speak in eight months, trends in eight months. Imports increased by 24 percent, export volumes by 7.6 percent. These are business claims. In summary, I would like to say that, in the context of those processes that have started to be negative, especially since the second quarter of this year, a number of negative points have gone into the relationship system of the team that represented the power of Ukraine. These conflicts were formed in a series of lukewarm, opaque, and incomprehensible decisions that at times led to public conflicts. The last chapel in this story was the conflict over the privatization of the Nicolel Ferrosco plant, where, you know, a uniquely fair court decision was made, but because of the backstage power of the government, there were several thousand people in opposition. Departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were set up there to conduct an action after the approval of a new director, whom no one had allowed into the factory. We stood at the limit of one step from the bloodshed. It was an anti-Majdan. It's not my policy, my friends. I do not want business disputes to be resolved in Ukraine on this basis, on the basis of unique court decisions. This will discredit Ukraine. That's why we have a cut in investment, so we have a huge mistrust of business in the Ukrainian authorities. And you are witnessing this. In the end, the team of authorities developed lukewarm schemes, slanders, baseless accusations, and perhaps justifiable accusations. The system of life in intrigue has become normal. I've been trying to devote the last, maybe eight to ten days ago, to bring understanding to the task force, including within the government, between the government and the various institutions. For a while, I felt that this understanding was close. But it was reportedly betrayed during the night by backstage counseling. And so, dear friends, I want to say the following. I supported the government, the other institutions of power, the work of the RNB, the work of the President's Secretariat. I appreciated the efforts of my colleagues in behalf of the welfare and welfare of the nation. But I could not, dear friends, hide my head in the sand and watch as the destructive processes entered the institutions of power, and every day they devalued the image and reputation of the country. When I couldn't find that understanding, I decided to resign, resign all parties who couldn't find a solution to the conflict. I emphasize that the problem of conflict is not in the relationship of Yushchenko-Timishenko, not in the relationship of Yushchenko-Prashenko or in the relationship of Yushchenko-Zinchenko. It was not in this plane that there was a misunderstanding. But I was involved in dealing with these issues with my active activities and gained misunderstandings on many sides. But I'm testifying to you that this is a step I've taken for the sake of Ukraine, not for any part of the government team. Please understand this as a key guiding point in motivating my actions. Now, dear friends, my plan of stability that I see today is to discuss and accept with you. First, dear friends, if we want to stabilize the situation as quickly as possible in the country, we need to accept, consider at today's meeting and approve the submission that I am officially presenting to you today. Appointing Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich as Prime Minister of Ukraine. We all need to make sure that this government is not politicized, not partying. We understand that we have seven months to live in pragmatic work. In fact, we have two choices -- seven months to exist, to live in stagnation or to live in development. We can live in development when we form this time and give all the opportunities to work effectively for the government. I am convinced that only a government formed today by pragmatists can work actively for Ukraine for seven months. And that's why I would ask your permission to support this development of the scenario with regard to the approval of the new government. Second, the stability of the economy, the stability of trade, the stability of the investment climate and other basics in 2006 will come from our professional objective and timely consideration of the 2006 budget. Convinced that timely consideration and adoption of the 2006 budget will give good signals to the economic, investment and investor, both internally and externally, in order to activate their activities within the national economy. We must, dear friends, understand clearly that scandals and crises will not replace our voters with pensions or wages or stable prices. And so these two points, I'm convinced that this is the direct and political responsibility of the elite regardless of the color of the flag it's under. And the third. Many discussions arise around the 2006 elections. I give you my word, the administrative resources will not work. I give you my word that no government funding channel from now on, no NAK Naftogazu, no Mintrans, no communications costs, no election funds, no government budget for the 2006 election. I give you a firm word. The elections will be fair, transparent, and public. In the negotiations with the OSCE, I took a position that allowed Ukraine to continue monitoring democratic beacons before the 2006 parliamentary elections. We have to be as open as possible. Let us have observations from all institutions that want to check the purity and publicity of our elections next year. As president of the country, I will do everything I can to stop destabilizing. Now the Supreme Council can stand beside me in the face of this crisis. Maybe take another position, blow it up. Convinced that a wise decision, a bold decision, is to take a stand as quickly as possible to stabilize the situation in Ukraine. We, dear friends, have signed a declaration with you and have demonstrated that we are aware of the responsibility we have before the country. I would like to take a separate look at some of the things that concern some. As President, I assure you that I will not allow political repression, political persecution. I can comment on this irony in a way that maybe very rarely there was an understanding between some teams. And the main events were behind the scenes because of the adventures. I'll say it's not my policy. Friends! I believe that every party that has signed will keep their word. And if there is a question today about the fulfillment of this Declaration, I would ask everyone to sit down at the table and fill in concrete meanings, including those relating to non-political persecution. I'm willing to take responsibility for these. Friends! Next. What is involved in the mechanism of government formation? The mechanism of government formation is open to mutual political consultation with factions. I emphasize that the principles of government formation will not be linked to businesses that have discredited themselves, persons who are not in the context of the political arrangements that we form as part of government formation. Next. What is involved in political reform? My friends, as President, I assure you that the course of political reform that I'm about to pursue will not be destructive. I won't. What's confirmed on paper, I'm going to be the side that's going to do this. Now, dear friends, I ask you to consider the present candidate, Mr. Yehanurov Jury Ivanovich, for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, and I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov is invited to serve as Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please, Yuri Ivanovich. In 30 minutes, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Victor Andryovich! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Distinguished representatives of the diplomatic corps, journalists and invited! In recent times, there have been widespread discussions about the crisis of power in Ukraine. I think they're primarily emotional. Government resignations have not been the news for the past one and a half decades. The universally elected President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine are enough to form a new and effective government and to build an effective executive branch of power. And the events of the last few weeks are aimed at consolidating the efforts of the entire Ukrainian society. At the same time, we have no right to underestimate those economic trends that have already become apparent. The Ukrainian economy has begun to lose momentum, and the populist steps associated with the permanent, the last three years, electoral campaigns have resulted in a buildup of negative phenomena. First of all, the distortion of the ratio of capital and consumption, the decline in the competitiveness of the economy, and the decline in the positive balance of external trade. In this you have learned from the presentation of the head of the Statekombt and the statistics given to you. Under these circumstances, the main task of the new government is to stabilize the economy and create conditions for sustained progressive development. We will not give up active social policy, the new government will work to ensure that high social standards are on the one hand driven by dynamic economic growth, and on the other hand are effective incentives for this growth. Our strategy is to combine macroeconomic policy with the basic principles of social and structural policy needed to ensure sustained economic growth. Among the top government tasks in the implementation of the 2005 budget. Ten days after its formation, the government will report on the actual implementation of the privatization programme and will propose a set of measures aimed at sustaining the budget implementation situation for this year. By rephrasing the famous phrase, I will say, "The budget will be executed under any unfavourable conditions." The draft of the new budget that came to the Supreme Council, I ask him to take a look at it and take it with understanding. Tomorrow in this room we're going to look at it, you know its basic parameters so I'm not going to comment on them just for two moments. First. We have time and opportunities for constructive work. It's different. In order to work with the people's deputies, the head of the government will not be required by means of joint work, we have good reason to adopt a socially balanced development budget already this year. I speak to regional authorities separately. The State Tax Administration will help you to form local budgets, and I guarantee you an increased attention by the government to solving the problems of territorial development. We're going to work together on effective regional models, and they're not going to have as much incentive as they do. Together, we're going to lay the foundations for real competition in regions, for investment, and for qualified personnel. In the new cabinet, the Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Policy will be able not only to report, but also to put problems at the central level. We'll hear the voices of the regions. At the same time, the position of national deputies on the professional capacity of certain heads of district government will be taken into account. They will also be subject to the rule of separating business from executive power. The government's actions will be in line with the President's policy and will be based on the legislative principles defined by the Supreme Council. So don't wait for the new composition of the sensational government and the daily press conferences. It's gonna be a little bit of a day-to-day job. Ministers will comment on their actions within the limits of their powers. A message after the Cabinet of Ministers will be made by an authorized member of the government, or, in some cases, by the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the government will work competently and transparently. Actions will be logical and predictable. To that end, the work of government committees will be reestablished, which will hold a preliminary discussion and agreement on the main issues. Meetings of government committees will be held with the participation of national deputies and representatives of the public. Public participation in their work will ensure that government decisions are made publicly. Thus, the transparency of the new government will have a working character. The practical purpose of this publicity is to increase the level of responsibility in decision-making. The government will put in place modern mechanisms to influence economic processes rather than manual management. There will be no experiments on the country. The first month of activity of the new government will be a rehabilitation period in relations between government and business. Understandably responsible and equal for all rules of the game will be based on respect for property rights. There will be law in the state. The government will put in place modern mechanisms to influence economic processes. Cases of illegal privatization will be brought before the courts. Conflict issues will be resolved through the negotiation process and peace agreements. Unappreciated objects will cost the state a real price. With a view to creating conditions for effective protection of property rights, I ask the Supreme Council to expedite the consideration of the Act on Shareholders, and small enterprises should receive the Law on a Simplified Taxation System. Reliable property protection, adherence to market competition principles will help bring Ukraine back an attractive investment image. The government will help to ensure that increasing investment ensures an increase in the innovation component of production, helping to form the chains that are needed to create closed production chains. In general, managing the innovation process will be a priority for government action. At the same time as the formation of a stable internal market for the consumption of industrial goods, the government will give strong support to domestic exporters. We will not divide the branches into donors and retainers. Everyone is receiving the assistance of the State, which is needed to ensure its effective work, taking into account the interests of steady growth throughout the country's economy. The most difficult situation is now in a fuel-energy complex. Immediate steps will be taken to improve the situation. At the talks with our main partners, we will save money on translators. The first step is to pay attention to the agro-industrial complex. Food security issues will be addressed through the support of the Ukrainian producer, not through the increase in food imports. The village’s humanitarian infrastructure will be a part of the government’s daily concern. In order to protect Ukraine’s interests in international markets, the government will work towards a strategic course for European integration. We're going to look for new forms of market and capital integration within a single economic space. Everything will solve the pragmatic calculation and the mutual benefit. The increased attention will be given to developing cooperation with our closest neighbours, the Russian Federation and Poland. We will continue to use the geopolitical location of Ukraine to form transport corridors, assign these programs, get maximum budget benefits. Given the importance of balanced integration of Ukraine into the world economy, I make a special request to the members of the Supreme Council. Let us forget all the images associated with the adoption of the Soviet laws. All documents will be processed in good quality. A platform to find common ground can and should be a protection of national interests. I look forward to supporting the introduction of the World Trade Organization and the introduction of new labour standards by employers and trade unions. The government's strategic goal is to stimulate a substantial increase in wages in the real economy. The experience worked in Dnipropetrovska will be applied in all areas of Ukraine. The very high level of pay should become an increasingly full source of funds to the Pension Fund and to the local budgets. The new government will support a balanced monetary policy with the National Bank of Ukraine. The currency exchange rate will meet the needs of protecting the welfare of the population and the interests of the producers. I am convinced that the management of the National Bank of Ukraine, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, will do everything to ensure that the budget figures are stable. In the humanitarian field, there will be more specific matters. The new government will use everything possible to make Ukrainian science a tangible step towards transforming it into a basis for high technology, and Ukrainian culture is approaching the right place in the European and global cultural processes. Accelerating adaptation in the Ukrainian system, world standards will be at the forefront of government action in the humanitarian sphere. Sadly, the counsel given by Shevchenka, “Teach the stranger what is best, but do not turn away from him. ” Health care will remain an undeniable priority. We have shown the world that the people of Ukraine have a healthy spirit. The government’s task is to create conditions for preserving and increasing the health of the body. The new government will have to work in a difficult situation that will make the election campaign even more difficult. But I am convinced that the government that is being formed today is fully capable of ensuring stability and tranquillity in the country. After the election, we will be able to pay our due diligence to the next Cabinet of Ministers and hand the country over to him in good repair. I thank the President of Ukraine for his high trust. To the head of the Supreme Council, the National Deputies for their constructive position in their meetings. I want to say the only thing I'm used to is sticking to those words. The faction requirements for separation of power from business will begin with the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Soon, everyone will be able to see that professionalism and reputation will be the main factor in forming a new government. Thank you to all for their support, criticism, and suggestions. It is a great honor for me to lead the government of Ukraine. We will act persistently and gradually, cutting off everything marginal and, instead, supporting everything that is efficient and beneficial. In general, the new Cabinet of Ministers will solve problems calmly, consistently, and effectively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! The speech by Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov has been completed. Questions, if any, please write them down. Coming up, 45 minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who are registered, please show. Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Yuri Ivanovich, well, I'm sorry that the President left, but everybody's sitting there listening, and we've heard almost the same speech this year. And today he's saying that these are the catastrophic consequences of the past government's activities, of what he's retired, and these effects have happened literally after August 24. I'm so surprised! What kind of government could it be, and what kind of a state that, almost a month later, has such a crazy economic downturn taken place?Oh, my God! And I wonder what kind of team you're going to have, and how it's going to provide jobs, and if there's not, we're literally going to be looking at it in about three or four months. And one more question: how will the Cabinet of Ministers be formed? I really liked how this show was done at the time, so that this whole thing would be, they would sign up, they'd sign up, they'd sign up, they'd come to the President and they'd apologize -- and everyone would see it. Why don't we do it again?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u65	You understand that the formation of the government goes hand in hand with both the President and the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I met all the factions who wanted to meet. There was a constructive conversation, sometimes quite harsh. Practically on the proposals of factions and on my own proposals, we already have a government membership project. I understand that after the Prime Minister's approval, there will be a real fulfillment of the arrangements that have just taken place. And as for the show, you know, I can say this: I'd rather be a director than a performer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u66	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, Alexander Mikolaiovich and others, the President did not leave the Supreme Council, he holds consultations and he is in the walls of the Supreme Council. Please, Sergey Matvienkov, follow by Kachur Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u67	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, 60 per cent of our State's domestic gross product is exports. Your attitude as to how you plan to build a exchange rate policy, because lately, so to speak, the exchange rate policy mechanism that was being built is nothing but a strike on the exporter. That's the first one. And the second. We just lost a huge amount of money in the income part of the budget. Second. How are you going to build a relationship with the service and payment mechanism? Unfortunately, over the past few years, the Government has changed one, the other, but the mechanism remains the same – the consumer, the pensioner, the budgeter, the one who today had to pull out the formation mechanism on his shoulders, I call it the formation mechanism in the coffeehouses of the utilities. I mean, she didn't change. All the expensive things that have been laid have been on the final consumer. How do you see the solution? And the last question is inflationary processes. Whatever we say, no matter how much we talk, but one evaluates the standard of living by getting a pension, going to the store, how much goods he bought for these amounts, or for the means we're talking about so far. It's your attitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u68	My position on exporters was set out in the Horn of Curve when the collapse that occurred in April-month took place. After that, I had quite an unpleasant conversation with the members of the Government and received many comments from the head of Government. That is why the idea of establishing a Union of Ukrainian Exporters was put forward. And I'm not giving up on those positions that I said back then in the Horn of Curve, I'm not giving up on them. We have to do everything. I'll be right over. And for Mr. Silent, I'll switch to Ukrainian. Guys, I'll pass, I'll pass. So I set out my policy. You listened to her at the time, she's permanent. It's about housing-communal issues. I have to tell you, it's a more difficult question for me. I don't know what's the more difficult question to ask today's Prime Minister candidate. I have to say that we've delayed the creation of the Ministry of Construction, Architecture, Housing and Utilities, which was meant to develop the rules of the game. As far as I know, these rules of the game and the issue of reform in this extremely difficult area have already been addressed. The government will now consider them and make its proposals. I'm not going to say they're simple, but first of all we're going to be dealing with these issues with representatives of local self-government bodies, those extreme people who stand next to the pedestals that tell people every day. Rather than being resolved in Kiev, it was decided at the level of local self - government. Regrettably, the view of this policy has now been overlooked. What about inflationary processes? Well, you know, we have a lot of experience overcoming inflation processes, and macroeconomic policies are going to be designed to keep us stable.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u69	Please, Paul Kachur, follow by Vladimir Masterskin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u70	Paul Kachur, faction of the Party of the People's Union "Our Ukraine", the constituency of Victor Yuschenka "Our Ukraine". Dear Yuri Ivanovich! The statistics we were given are the structure of the debt on the wages. Notice, in this structure, 55 percent is the debt of successful businesses. That's what I'm stressing. Now for the question. We have a fairly strong social protection programme in our budget this year, and it is indeed the sacred duty of every budget to protect the person who needs such assistance from the state. But Yuri Ivanovich, look at the paradox that appears in our country: we are no longer comfortable working in separate fields. Social protection programs are stronger than real work. I have a question for you: Please tell me, what will the government do to ensure that a person who is working, who wants to make a living, and his family, is a priority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u71	The first question relates to wages. I have to tell you that my estimate is that we have much more than a third of the salary that walks in the shadows. And those official wage figures that are today, they show that tens of thousands of enterprises today pay double wages. In Dnipropetrovsk, there were nine and a half thousand companies in the first quarter. As a result of the policy of the district government, the district council, we were able to reduce this figure in the second quarter to five and nine ten thousand. And we expect it to be no more than a thousand enterprises in the third quarter. So we have considerable experience to get the wages out of the shadows. The structure of debt is a successful enterprise that shows that we underestimate the important role of the professions. We don't work with them. We didn't pay attention. And that's why all the debts of successful businesses are due to the lack of normal government regulation and control over those who have to be legally responsible for wages. The issue of wages will be at the centre of government attention. And without the fools, we'll make them pay. With regard to the problem that exists today, including social protection. And if you look at the part of our pension. You'll see that the average pension is only 150 dollars, which is the result of the salary you received before your retirement, and that's the result of your internship. Everything else is a variety of allowances. This is a huge problem that has now been put into place. And we need to get out of this problem right now. I can honestly say that without serious dialogue and arrangements here among the deputies and government officials, these issues cannot be resolved. The question is extremely important, it is a matter of urgency, and we need to get out of the situation with dignity, understanding what March is next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u72	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u73	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Yuri Ivanovich, I asked you yesterday about this, and what are your thoughts about the energy crisis that is happening around the world today, including in Ukraine. You said you'd be going to Russia soon. In principle, I welcome these steps. What's more, I get it, Russian language you know, but I think in the same Russia, we're told by the same Russian that we have to pay for everything in our lives. Wouldn't it be better if there was another way out? Before we did. You know how longevity -- we plant more acres to drown. Maybe the best way out is to get some of the long-term energy in Russia and actually implement an energy conservation programme inside the country. Give us 2-3 years and give us the opportunity today to use the state's position of sovereign debt for strategic problems and we'll get out of this crisis on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u74	Thank you. As we continued our discussion yesterday, I want to say more clearly today. I think that building power and energy-saving components in one department was a mistake. I think it's a problem that we have to solve. And the question of energy crisis is me. The government will do anything to prevent a crisis. I just want to go on with the measures that we've been saying, they're going to be done and the question is that we need to engage in a business normal negotiation process with our main energy suppliers. And I'm sure we'll hear each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u75	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u76	Thank you. Your Honor, I have two questions. I think they're pretty straightforward to give you an answer to them, so I'd like that to be concise and clear. First. What can be done about a government that, in principle, has not undergone any personal and personal change? As far as I'm concerned, you might be able to question my information, almost 95 percent of the government's previous composition is being stored. If he acted badly, is it manifest that it was all wrong for one person to be released from the report or what? Do you think you can make a new game with the old team? First. And the next. What you think is transparency and openness at all. Because for me, the press conferences that the government held are part of transparency and openness, and the explanation of the positions that the government is taking on complex issues, because they will have to be resolved sooner or later. That transparency and openness are for you, because a press conference is just a pianist in your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u77	New in government, with regard to the composition of government, the government is being updated by at least two thirds. The information you're using, I don't know, maybe you don't want to hear anything. Because your faction refused to meet with me, and then you don't have full information and you use the Internet releases that you inspire their work. It's different. In terms of transparency. For me, transparency is not fireworks at press conferences, but transparency is, I can say, an example of the work done during the second and third quarter is done in the Dnipropetrov region. All the budget costs are transparent because they're on the district government website. All expenses on the site. All contracts concluded at budget costs by the end of October by the only one will be on the site. Every citizen, every taxpayer will know where his money goes, and every taxpayer will know why there's so much bread in this boarding school, and there's another price on the way to the hospital. That's what we're going to do. This is transparency. Everything but the wicked one. [[Applause]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u78	Joseph Wynsky, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u79	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Jury Ivanovich, it is clear to many that the government crisis was the result of the lack of political reform and the unregulated legislative status of the Cabinet of Ministers. You know that the Cabinet of Ministers Act so far is virtually gone, and the Cabinet of Ministers worked without this law. Will you strive for accelerated political reform and the introduction of the Cabinet of Ministers Act? Next question. There was a Presidential Declaration, including the separation of business from power. I would like you to explain which mechanisms are real so that in the new composition of the government and in the executive power of the place of business, it is separate from power? And the last. Today we have a paradoxical situation in the village where there is a crop and there is no money. There is a sign of a serious crisis based on the fact that the state has lost its price mechanisms in the countryside. Do you??
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u80	Thank you. With regard to political reform. I think a few minutes ago, the President of Ukraine made it clear in his statement that political reform would take place according to the timetable set out and what was signed with us at the round table, the declaration. Regarding the status of the Cabinet of Ministers. I absolutely agree with you that there should be a Cabinet of Ministers Act, but first we need to agree on some definitions. First question. We're going to separate the political and administrative functions from each other, aren't we? We're going to depoliticize the government's office, aren't we? So we have to answer some questions, a list of questions that we're going to ask clearly. I already have all the necessary proposals and relevant draft legislation on this subject on my desk. First you have to say left or right, down or down, then you have to adopt the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Any rules of the game are always better than no rules. Then it's impossible to work at all. As far as the APK is concerned. I can say, you know, that what's going on in the grain market right now, and it's hard to say by crisis, is a phenomenon that Ukrainian history, the history of our nation's agriculture, has not yet been known. And maybe that's why neither the previous government nor we now have enough recipes to quickly remove negatives. I understand that this is about a serious game in serious markets where we're not yet far away, we're not playing them transparently, but then through, and in about one area to 78 middlemen who are completely crippling the earnings of peasants. I can promise you one thing that I will hear the minister of the new agro-industrial complex, who will work, who will make his proposals, and we, together with the factions of the Supreme Council, must find a way out. Colleagues! This is about a serious game. And when we start to talk about "excellent crops" and when they start to talk about how much, where, what we already have, it's because we don't know how to play in markets. These things are not the kind of things that have to be told everywhere. This is the subject of normal relations between the state, the business, the manufacturer, and everyone. We need to learn to play more modern in this tough world.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u81	Mikhailo Ratushny, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u82	Yuri Ivanovich, the position of the Ukrainian People’s Party, remains unchanged: To get rid of the odyssey figures in the government associated with corruption, the Kabmin members should not be a word, but a work separate from business and executive power, Ukrainian patriotism, and conjunctural pragmatism are the priorities of the Ukrainian government. This is our position. We talked to you about this for a long time yesterday, and we heard your position, but we also confirm our position. I have a question as a member of the Committee on European Integration. Will a new government and you, as Prime Minister, remain a priority for Euro integration? And whether the members of the new Cabinet would go to the Committee on European Integration, because the past would give press conferences and declarations faster, and the road to the Parliamentary Committees of the Supreme Council had been forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u83	I can't talk about government members who are involved in corruption right now, because nothing has been proven in this regard. I repeat the position that I said yesterday that the government will not work for those who have a system business. Yesterday you asked me to name them, I think that's enough. With regard to Ukrainian patriotism and all the questions that concern me sometimes speaking Russian, I feel that there is nothing wrong with it. And I'm sorry if he doesn't understand what language I don't speak. And I'm a Ukrainian patriot, I'm a Ukrainian of Burya origin. Now it's about European integration. Because ministers will have time because they'll give less press conferences, they'll find a way to your committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u84	Alexander Tzarenko, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u85	Dear Yuri Ivanovich! I have three short questions. First question. Do you think you have enough knowledge of Russian in order to establish an economic normal relationship with Russia? That's the first question. Second question. You're the person who said you were in the previous job, like the person who's in the business of dissipation, privatization and so on. In your future government today, you have very many satisfied ministers of former socialists. As we can see, their activities in the economic sphere have been completely different from what you need to be declared. How will you do it all and all there as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u86	It's about language. I understand that business language, it is a business language, and is well understood by everyone. The language is pragmatic, the language of convenience, the language of business partnership. So they'll understand. With regard to privatization processes, they will no longer be the same as before, as planned. Now every object requires substantial preparation, and I don't understand how it can be privatized in two or three months, or even six months. Such industrial giants, who are going to our privatization program today, have to prepare for privatization for at least two or three years and only sell at such an interesting time when it's very convenient. And with regard to your discussions with the socialists, I think you'd be better off here without me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u87	Peter Petrovich Toloczko, faction of "The One Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u88	Yuri Ivanovich, I have two questions. There's been a lot of talk in the Cabinet of Ministers lately about science reform, about governance, and very little talk about how to provide science with funds for its development. I'd like to hear from you the answer to how you're looking at this problem. And the second little question. Don't you think it's not just Timoshenko that's responsible for the terrible relationship with Russia, but maybe not Timoshenko as much as our country's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u89	As far as science is concerned. I've consulted with you, I've consulted with a number of scientists, and I think it'll be right when the relationship between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine is personally the responsibility of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I confirm that here in front of all the people. I think we're going to find in the dialogue to solve the urgent problems of our scientists. It's about the Russian Federation. I had a long conversation with the President of Ukraine when I made an offer to lead the government. I think there's a full understanding and the tasks that the President puts before the government, namely, normal business relations with the Russian Federation, normal business relationships on a personal level. And I think it's going to be assured. We will not be drooling at each other, but we will clearly understand, shake hands and look into each other’s eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u90	Mikola Noshchenko, "Go, Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u91	Nightshade Mikola, Sumstina, Volodymyr Litvina National Block. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, for the first time in five years, the growth rate of real GDP has been negative, and you yourself have said that the composition or the graph is going down. First question. When will he stop at your forecast? The other one. We are constantly appalled by the energy crisis. The growth of petrol and solar power, the growth of gas, and this is that Ukraine extracts almost 18 billion cubic metres of gas, so much so that it needs a population of housing and utilities -- 6 million tons of oil when agriculture needs 2 million. Every citizen of Ukraine has the right to a share of national wealth: gas, oil, and so on. Enough NAKU to make cream. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u92	Regarding gross domestic product. I said the main task of the government is to stabilize. If you look closely at the curve that reflects the growth of industrial production, you'll see that the highest point in growth was March 2004. Since then, there has been a gradual decline in the growth rate of industrial production. The government's main task is to stabilize the situation now, to stop the negative trend. When can this be done? We'll do everything we can to make it happen in the fourth quarter of this year. Otherwise, it is very difficult for us to go out. I understand the situation we're in. And I ask your permission to the team that will join the government to carry out this work of stability. Economics is a whole set of tools that relate to normalization of work. These signals all of our manufacturers, our big, medium and small businesses, these signals should be received today from the central government and they will receive them. With regard to energy and housing problems. Of course, that's the question, that's the problem. And the isolation, the target of gas or oil, well, I can honestly say that I'm not ready to answer as much as technically possible right now. But what the state can provide today at the expense of our population, including our own resources, you can be sure. We will do everything we can to ensure that our people do not experience the problems that exist in the government. That's our problem. Well, what's more, winter will be hot both in these walls and in Ukraine. So it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u93	Eugene Gorenik, "Reforms and Orders" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u94	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I am very pleased to hear from you that the budget will be executed in all weather. But do you know that the budget lacks budgetary allocations for local budgets for about 750 million dollars. How do you feel about the proposal made by the government-official budget committee to review the current budget for a slightly higher amount in response to the needs of local budgets? And I have no doubt that the new government will be implementing the President's "Meet the People" programme. But how do we understand the proposals for the next reduction budget by three times gasification without an energy supply alternative? You said winter would be hot. So, please, how do we secure a salary and a warm winter for our population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u95	You tell me to bring the sun down here a little bit. Dear colleagues! The question of wages, as I understand it, is this increase that will take place since September 1st, without any particular problems, although there are problems everywhere, will only be solved in six areas of Ukraine, and everyone else has a big problem. This is a matter for serious discussion with the heads of district government, their financial substitutes in government. I had a few conversations with the finance minister, with his employees. This is a problem that we will solve, literally, for days, our proposals. You realize that for the next month and a half, we have questions, in principle, closed. And then we're going to sit down, really, and we're going to sit down with the budget committee, and together we're going to take responsibility for how we're going to close these promises that were, and what kind of situation the next government is driving into. We will not be able to lower social standards, they will be done, and how they will be done, it will be a matter of work art and understanding of Parliament and government. Regarding gasification and budget. Dear colleagues! Once more on the budget. I'm asking you to take it as a work document. If you see any flaws there, if you see your place there, write. As I understand it, the deputy who's been working for three years is an experienced person, and the budget changes are going to be about 6,000. Please tell me the state of the budget you and I have put in. You're well aware that this is about a substantial view of this version of the budget. Let's take it up and start working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u96	Vitaly Majko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u97	Yuri Ivanovich, you have such a question. Each government promised to help industry and its development. Every budget that came in destroyed everything that Parliament had worked for all its years. I looked at the budget today. There is still the question of industrial destruction. Can't you see? I'd like to see you. Why? I've known you for a long time, and I know what you know. Do you, too, believe that by destroying the industry, you can gain and benefit the Ukrainian people? I'd like your assessment of whether the budget can correct all industrial taxes every single time, please give me an answer. In general, I would like to say that industry supports you, Yuri Ivanovich. But I want to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u98	It was a question I heard from a committee member who had led me for three years. I am well aware of this question, since we have been consonants with Vitali Ivanovich for many decades. What can I say? The question before me was whether to stop the budget process, to start looking at it completely, first in the government, to give it to the Supreme Council, and here again, to review it; or to follow the technology of the budgetary process without breaking the deadlines. I chose to work with the deputies, because, well, knowing that without the deputies, without the budget committee, without the committees, there's not going to be any, well, in the next. Better, so we need to work with the deputies now. That's what we want to do. Vitalia Ivanovich, regarding my position on industry. Well, how can I say something different against what you said, the man who graduated from college has a specialty written there: "The economy of industry."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u99	Hennaday Rudenko, faction of the People's Democratic Party of Ukraine, Trudova Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u100	Yuri Ivanovich, good afternoon. I wish we could get back to talking about who's going to be represented in the government. Is there a coalition agreement? Because voting for a cat in a bag is from the experience of a deputy job, not quite fair and not farsighted. So please present any candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u101	I promise two-thirds of the government will be updated. There's not going to be any people in the government who do systemic business. Regarding presentation, then, honourable national MPs, I have just heard questions that were said: it was wrong when right here the members of the government were approved. Now you're saying that it's wrong not to be confirmed here. Dear colleagues, this once again speaks of what has been rightly said today: You need the Cabinet of Ministers Act, you need clear procedures so that there is no problem. [[Applause]] Next. As I can. Dear colleagues, how can I give names until I've bypassed all the factions, worked with you? I have a clear picture and a picture of how the factions see it. Whom they see, and since we're all Ukrainians, I've got more offers that they don't want to see. And that's why it's even more of a group of people who, from the point of view of factions or committees, aren't supposed to be in any position, even if they're not in today's government. So, my dear colleague, I guarantee that all the promises I've made to the factions will be loaded. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u102	Gennady Josephovich Udovenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u103	Dear Yuri Ivanovich, we, the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine, unanimously support you, an experienced statesman. You have a lot of experience. I remember in 92nd year, when you came to Krinica in Poland, we started this famous Krinan Economic Forum, which our Ukrainian leaders no longer go to, we forgot. But my question concerns the future State Committee on Migration and Nationality. We have 22.2 percent of national minorities in Ukraine. There was a decision that caused a lot of concern in the community -- the elimination of the Democratics. How do you feel about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u104	I think that we don't yet realize that there will be a short period of time, and the trend towards improvement in the economic situation in Ukraine will be clear, clear, because there is every reason to believe that Ukraine can be a seriously economically developed country. We will become attractive to many countries, to many countries. And the subject of migration processes will be extremely important and relevant to us. We need to prepare for these questions. So I'm willing to view this as a problem. Well, specifically for the State Committee, I think we can get to that question somewhere in the 15th of October, once the government is formed, as we will be determined with the heads of the State Committees. And then you can talk about the new configuration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u105	Oleg Tagnibok, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Yuri Ivanovich! Please tell me, do you agree with the need for an illustration in Ukraine, namely the removal of three k's from government posts, as proposed in the draft Law on Illustration? To be removed for five years by Cambodians, Communists, and pilgrims. And whether you will adhere to this principle by forming a new state of government and not proposing. Are you going to be the people who once took the lead in the Communist Party, the people who were and remain, apparently, the agency of the KGB of the Soviet Union, the people who were ministers, the heads of committees and the servants of the Qutum regime? This is the first question. Second question. Yuri Ivanovich, before yesterday, in the constituency and in consultation with the electorate, people wanted to ask you terribly. What is your personal relationship with the former President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u107	Thank you. I don't support lustration. I'm a former member of the Communist Party of Ukraine, I'm a member of the Podilski Paradise Party. As the manager of the building reed, I was there as this member of the paradise. If we find out, many of us were there. I believe that if these questions were to be raised, they would have to be raised once. Today, when the President has reached out to all and united Ukraine, the honourable colleagues, when you are in the Cabinet of Ministers, come up to the seventh floor and at the entrance to the reception, look at the picture in which the “Children of God” is called. Where there is a group of Ukrainians and a group of other Ukrainians, and between them the bastard is growing. And they're looking at each other from under their foreheads. And everywhere these drums are loose, and what they led Ukraine to then is to ruin. And so today, when we don't have to say it anymore, we need to hear from each other. And if today the East, which is 17 million people on one side and 18 people on the other, is all Ukrainian, if you'll excuse me. And we have to do everything we can to connect the nation every day. About Kuchma. And you know, in Dnipropetrovsk Leonid Ilch Brezhnev, he made arrangements to kiss everyone. It's happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u108	Vladimir Petrenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u109	Petrenko. I would like to take the floor to my colleague, Petr Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u110	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u111	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Zibenko. Dear Yuri Ivanovich. Your colleagues on the orange team talk a great deal today about honesty, morality, the people of this authority. In practice, however, the opposite qualities are demonstrated. Not only did Ukraine become convinced of this but the whole world became convinced. But please tell me how these principles of honesty, morality, peoples agree that the 2006 Ukrainian State Budget project of veterans of war, the Fascism winners have been deprived of what they later earned and the blood of poor housing and utility benefits. We had different governments, but none of us did. You've decided to take these holy people away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u112	I haven't been able to do anything yet. Wait. I'm... just the only thing I said. We got the budget. I was faced with a purely technological question — either to stop the process or to move on. We'll work with you. And if we work constructively, we'll hear each other. And the voice of the pensioners in Ukraine, who today are 14 with the remaining millions, will be heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u113	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, I think common sense will win, and now you're going to get voted for, although I have a lot of questions for you, but I'm only going to ask them in part today. First. You know that the source of corruption today in the state, one of the main sources, is the tax administration and the value added tax as the most corrupt. Now this tax is going to be left again. There is no further discussion about the change in the leadership of the State Tax Administration. In my opinion, I am addressing Viktor Andryovich Yashchenka, today there must be an order to release Mr. Kiriev and to release the leadership of this service. Next. We need to change the structure of the government, Yuri Ivanovich. Isn't it clear that when there's no vice-premier on industrial matters, there's no vice-premier on APC issues, no one cares about the development of our industry. Leaded to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u115	Yuri Anatolyevich, regarding the State Tax Administration. I stand in position when the State Tax Administration, Customs and State Department are to be within the Ministry of Finance, and then there is a systemic view and there is normal control, cross-checking each other's work. I'm going to make these proposals so that we can approve this structure of government bodies. With regard to the structure of the government, you're referring to the division of duties among the Deputy Prime Minister. I have experience, I have had the privilege of working in the government of Yushchenka and the better traditions that were then, they will be continued, namely: the work of the government committees at the head of which will be the vice-premiers with such a division of responsibilities as you speak of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u116	Yes, Yuri Ivanovich, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the performances. Yes, respected colleagues, 16 national deputies were enrolled. We agreed that factions would speak first. Who hasn't signed up yet, please do it in the secretariat. 45 minutes. Oleg Zarubinsky is a faction of the People's Party. Prepare Valery Desert.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u117	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, distinguished guests, representatives of the media! The faction of the People's Party, following the principles of solving any issue through understanding and today will act consistently. The interests of the State and the professionalism of those who put these interests into practice have always been critical of human resources policy. We have also stated this on several occasions from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because in today’s difficult economic situation, professionals alone can find the best way to stop the negative trends that have arisen in recent months and give new impetus to the productive and social spheres. We all understand that the cadence of the new government is quite limited at the time, because in May the results of the parliamentary election of the winning party will form a new government team. Therefore, it is important today that the higher executive authorities be as abstract as possible from the political battalions as possible, not political ones, but the daily and petty management work that the President has declared in his pre-election programme, that they do not allow further containment of economic recovery processes and that they ensure the social standards that the President has declared in his pre-election programme. In the context of these circumstances, Yuri Yehanurov's candidate for head of government, according to our faction, the faction of the People's Party is quite compromising and acceptable. Parliament does not buy a “cat in a bag”. The activity of Yuri Ivanovich during the last decade was, indeed, public. His experience of management in positions of responsibility, in government teams of previous years, leaves no doubt about the professional qualities of the candidate. We have no warning and two more "pe" -- patriotism and integrity -- at least we don't know the facts that would cast a shadow on the candidate's moral reputation. The faction will today vote in favour of allowing the President to appoint Yuri Yehanurov to the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, but as the people say, “the king is playing the scroll”, yesterday when we met Yuri Ivanovich, we expressed our wishes about the composition of a new government team that needs a major upgrade. We will also insist on a serious staff audit at a regional level where professionalism has been sacrificed to a revolutionary purpose. We need to stop the vacchanal immediately because of such dangerous personnel policies. It's a pleasure that the candidate has a similar point of view to this problem. And finally, Yuri Ivanovich, in support of your candidacy, we are counting on the new government to change the style of cooperation with the Supreme Council, give up the methods of pressure and blackmail, the search for enemies in favor of concerted and constructive work in the name of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u118	Valeriy Pavlovich Pashtowatenko, NDP faction, Trudova Ukraine, is invited to speak. Get ready for Michael Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! As was the case with Julia Volodymyrna, it was not easy for me to speak. I'm very sorry that we do have the executive power that is unstable and the lack of the stability of this executive power that is leading our economy to a complete crisis. So I boldly claim that our country is in both political and economic crisis today. Well, the words I was worried about today were quite different, I'll tell you from the beginning, I think Victor Andryovich is listening to my speech. And he started today from what he knows about, where he spent the night, who said there were conspiracies. So I could say that I spent the night, after meeting the factions, at home, and before that, I drank with the faction a hundred grams and slept like a dead man. That's why it's the first question. Home! Home! That's what I said. I want to say the other thing or the other thing. Once again, it shows that we have advocated for transparency, for democracy in our country, I have signed a declaration, hoping that political reforms will be halted against members of the People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u120	Repression. Repression.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u121	political repression and against the members of the Labour Ukraine. It's like: Tobacco, Tolstoy, Borisov, L., and Sergei. That's the first question. I hope that after the appointment of Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, we asked him this question yesterday, a form of government that will clearly establish the Cabinet of Ministers. This structure must be designed in such a way that all the problems that exist in our country are covered by both the Cabinet of Ministers, both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Heads of State Committees and other executive bodies. I also hope that this structure will be integrated into people who are professionally trained and together with those political parties that trust the government to work first and foremost. A team has been formed to assume the full responsibility of a particular sector of our economy. And I would like to wish the following, that if you don't have an anti-crisis program formed within the week, agreed with Parliament, we will not actually live to see the end of the year and not be able to form a budget for the following year, I'm not talking about a socio-economic programme anymore. And I want to say the next thing, Yuri Ivanovich, you didn't actually say a single step to the perspective of what you're going to do in a particular direction, even though you said more at the faction. The faction of the People's Democratic Party of the Labour Ukraine supports you and hopes that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u122	Mikola Noshchenko from Vered Ukraine!, prepare Yuri Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u123	Nightshade, Sumstina, Bloc Volodymira Litvina. I'm sorry to say today, on behalf of my colleagues, that from this rostrum for eight months we really supported the previous government, despite the fact that there wasn't even a real program of his actions. And today we have to say that, despite the support of the hall and us, including all of those government demands for any legislative acts, including tax acts. We passed laws, there were no positive developments. All that can and will be done by the government has been ruined. If you can remember, these are meat prices, milk prices, gasoline prices, and such a list can be continued, thus underlining the action of the previous government. As for today, Yuri Ivanovich, at the meeting we have expressed our opinion and we support you, knowing how a constructive government official who can hear can listen and what is the key to fulfilling this commitment. But I'd like to make a few wishes. We will do everything we can to ensure that this government, which we are voting for today, does not reduce the social indicators of our lives. We admire the minimum cost of living as it grows. But let's think about it: a living minimum of 400 dollars, and if you can live on that money today. Now let's give another indicator. In 2002, the subsistence minimum is the tenth part of the minimum wage of the minister. And today, the subsistence minimum is forty times less than the wage of a minister, which is 16, or 17,000. This is actually a huge amount that you have to correct today, and this will be your first concrete path to constructive action. In conclusion, I want to ask you once again that we signed a declaration, including your signature there, and our faction insisted on stopping the pressure and the persecution of political motives. We're not talking about criminal crimes, but we're talking about tens and thousands of times when people are invited by telephone to the D.A.'s office, they're taking a witness, they're putting it in a directory. And today people are asking us one question: When will the pressure stop? I think you have enough power to stop these negative, destructive processes of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u124	Jury Ivanovich Kostenko is invited from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u125	Honourable Head, honourable colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party states that the situation in the state requires the President and candidate for the post of Prime Minister to take a different approach with regard to the formation of a new cabinet of ministers. In this connection, the faction states: First. The years - long practice of forming the majority of the Prime Minister’s administration under the Prime Minister’s candidature has exhausted itself. Unlike all the democratic countries in the world where the parliamentary coalitions are initially formed to implement the joint programme, and then the government in Ukraine lacks such a procedure has led to the fact that in all years of independence no programmes have ever been implemented to transform the economy of the Ukrainian RSR into a highly effective and competitive market economy of an independent state. All the problems of today: the absence of a state of closed technological production cycles, the full energy dependence on Russia, the embryonic state of small and medium-sized enterprises, the absence of European transport corridors, many, many other economic problems were caused only by the fact that Parliament, the government and the President were all just “ledge, cancer and hammer” and not by the only Ukrainian authorities. So today, Ukraine needs not only a new government but a single parliamentary government coalition that will implement the President's programme. And this political team should not only be responsible for the state of affairs in the state but also have appropriate powers. The time of the political coups, when the electorate is drawn to one another, and in the authority of the other, is over. The other one. The faction refers to the President and the candidate for Prime Minister's office in the formation of a new composition of the government, at last, to meet the requirements of the field. Patriotism, honesty, professionalism and commitment to the national interests of the state must finally become the card of each applicant for the government chair. For its part, the UNODC faction is ready to propose to the new government candidates who meet the highest moral and professional requirements. Third. We address all factions. That they intend to delegate their representatives to the government to give up those candidates who have their own business. Many years of business practices in governments have merely confirmed the national wisdom of “his pocket closer to the body than the state’s. ” And the last. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party appeals to all the colleagues with whom we have chosen the Ukrainian democratic future with the call to stop spilling dirt on each other. What you're doing is not cleaning up power, it's more like playing a thief with a thief in a common pocket that has nothing to do with people's interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u126	Viacheslav Koval of the Ukrainian People's Movement faction. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u127	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! National Deputy Koval, faction of the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian People's Movement faction, after meeting with Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov of Ukraine, discussed at its meeting the issue of his support for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. The faction's decision to support the submission of Victor Yushchenk, President of Ukraine, to the appointment of Yuri Yehanurov as Prime Minister of Ukraine. In making this decision, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement came out of the professional, moral qualities of Yuri Ivanovich, as well as clear agreements and guarantees reached with the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. The main requirement put forward and put forward by the faction is the unconditional separation of business from power. A minister or an official should not lobby for the interests or interests of business groups. We are convinced that the new government should be made up of patriotic professionals who are able to stabilize the situation in Ukraine and bring back to work the principles that Victor Yushchenk's government has been working on. The economic situation in the state, we believe, will improve with the arrival of Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov of Ukraine. The new government cannot work on the principle of populism. It must be a government for the development of Ukraine's economy, development and development. We support Yuri Yehanurov as prime minister because we are convinced that government and economic governance will not be carried out manually but will be based on sound economic policy and government management. By promoting the interests of small and medium-sized businesses, the National Movement of Ukraine will control the non-interference of officials in the work of entrepreneurs and will require the creation of a maximum regime to promote small and medium-sized business development. We are confident that the new leadership of the Ukrainian government will be able to eradicate corruption and bribery. In Ukraine, economic freedom is finally to come, the authorities will be really separated from business, and then Ukraine will move from the last to the first in the world's economic freedom rating. Jury Yehanurov also supports the condition of maintaining the high social standards of life of Ukrainian citizens, which were introduced in Ukraine with the election of Yushchenk by the President of Ukraine. Mydan’s promises of social security must be preserved in the work of the new government. And the last. We are confident that the patriots who have done the most to make Ukraine independent should come to power because only they know how to bring Ukraine to prosperity and for the Ukrainians to ensure prosperity. The National Movement of Ukraine has never been a destructive force, even in opposition for 15 years. We are a consistent political force, we have supported and will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u128	Thank you. Igor Mikhailovich Šurma from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. [[united]] Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u129	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First, I'd like to go to a Euro-Integrator who's lost in the road maps and so much that he's not even in his place today, he's sitting in a government bed. Social Democrats didn't go into the woods, they didn't give money, they didn't take money. So we gathered for factions and decided to listen to what the President was going to say today. Unfortunately, the President's speech made no sense at all. On August 24th, everyone in Ukraine heard that the only government of the European species, the highest professionals, with the greatest achievements, is the government of Timoshenko. Two weeks later, he was retired. I ask, "Why?" I have the moral right to ask everyone, including Viktor Andriovich Yushchenka. I said in this room, I don't vote for Timoshenko. The other one. Today, a number of failures have been identified. If you knew, Victor Andryovich, for these failed moments of government that you had the moral right to fool the Ukrainian people on this Mayday of Independence, giving such high marks to that government. And most dangerously, we have witnessed that today, in the superior government, in the context of the President, there are elements of a circular commitment. I'd like to ask Victor Andryovich: if you hadn't fallen asleep that night and had to shake hands with Dustyenko and Timoshenko, then everything would have been smooth and quiet, and no one would have known about corruption or what was going on in that country. Today we are talking about whether we will vote for Yuri Yehanurov. With no personal claim to him at all, we want to say that the faction of the united Social Democrats on January 25th after the inauguration said that it was going into opposition. We took a very difficult step, giving guarantees to the government and supporting it in trying to do what was promised to the people: we voted for Timoshenko, we voted for the program, we voted for the budget. Instead, we have received political repression, political aggression, a decline in production and a decline in the state that has not occurred in six years. This is not only the responsibility of Yushchenka's government – it is the President's responsibility because his team has come. We don't want to depend on whoever the President wants to make Prime Minister. We are responsible for political reform and the government is politically responsible. And I want to thank Victor Yushchenk for two things: he said today, "There is no political repression from today." So he admitted that they were before that. I mean, because united Social Democrats are consistent. The more we trust the words, the more we do not vote. Polytreform – and we'll discuss it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u130	Oleg Grigorovich Belarus of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Alexander Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u131	Dear national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Today the fate of Ukraine is again being resolved. Ukraine is in a deep political crisis that has no end. The spirit of our nation, the morals of the people, the ideals of the field and the democratic revolution call for answers to questions, Ukrainian citizens ask this question daily: why is Prime Minister Timoshenko resigning? The President said that the Timoshenko government was the best in Europe, the President said that the Timoshenko government had reached the highest rate, the President suddenly dissolved the government and actually retired the Prime Minister. The President did not consult Parliament before this dramatic decision. The president announced the crisis of the personnel of the environment, the teams, the morals. I left my friends in the office. The president himself has chosen and appointed everyone, without exception, members of the government of Timoshenko. Today, the President is explaining the crisis of declining economic growth. But the pace of economic development, he said, was the highest. When did the President tell the truth? When he adhered to morals — when he raised the government to the highest pedestal in Maidan or when he suddenly removed the government? The President speaks of the resignation of all parties and is in fact limited by the company against Prime Minister Timoshenko. How is it to be linked to morality and the suggestion that Timothy should lead the list? When, over and over, citizens ask, did the President tell the truth? The corruption of the President's environment is covered by the artificially organized explosive effect of the Prime Minister's resignation. Where's the morals?Oh, my God! Where are the interests of the Ukrainian people and the state? Today, stability in Ukraine is possible because of the crowd movement of the government every six months. We had 14 premieres in 14 years, and that was a disaster. We need to move from declarations to systemic institutional reform of the power system and, above all, executive. To do this, all politicians need to sit at the negotiating table and support the adoption of laws 3207 and 3207 in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u132	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Thank you. Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Gurey's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On Friday we held a meeting of our faction with the party’s assets, carefully considered the question of the appointment of Yuri Yehanurov, and, despite the keen discussion that was there, we decided to support this candidacy. It is a good thing that today, as we speak on the rostrum, Yuri Ivanovich does not begin to chase down the previous cabinet because it was a tradition of the previous cabinet. But we understand very well that today, not what the next budget is going to be, but what today is going to be, is very, very problematic. And so let's not do rhetoric now, praise each other, or bark at each other, but let's do this particular thing. Obviously, for a government that, unfortunately for him but with objective data, will be temporary for only seven months, it will be the first and perhaps most difficult task. Next, we put it. Today, faction, wish: There should be no businessmen in power. How to do this, I don't think we need a big mechanism or a complex mechanism. Yuri Ivanovich, you know very well who does what. The requirement is mandatory: there should not be people in authority who are directly engaged in business because it will be the same as the previous warehouse. The first thing to decide is, obviously, Yuri Ivanovich doesn't need to be tipped around here. We have to go to Moscow and make an energy deal, all the problems we have today, first of all, with gas, with oil products, and so on. Dealing, not, sorry, swearing over a TV screen, that's not gonna make any sense. And what needs to be decided today is to find wherever the funds are to create an agrofund and fund it, and buy the grain into the peasants, or it's going to be a disaster. It's basically ready. We have a terrible shortage today. If all of this is not corrected in the coming days, we have no hope of harvesting next year, and a whole series of problems are coming out, coming to the fore. Therefore, this must be taken into account, and the costs of the Agrofund at the Derzrezers for the purchase of grain and the maintenance of the price must be realized. But I no doubt agree with the previous speaker here. Obviously, I was glad that many people today came to that conclusion, and I had previously doubted. The reform of the power system is absolutely necessary. If this is not done, then we will face these facts all the time, as is the case now, – resigning from retirement, personal ambitions get in conflict with the interests of the state, society. And there will be no meaning until political reform is complete. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u134	Basil Gureyev from the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine is invited to speak. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u135	Dear national MPs, the rate of decline in gross domestic product, the negative changes in trade balance, the pre-eminent growth in imports over exports, the slowdown in production growth -- all of this, in our view, is an estimate of state industrial policy. A few words about budgetary processes. The faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs over the course of two years is that we will still be adopting the development budget together. Unfortunately, though, the 2005 Budget Act has virtually destroyed tax legislation, a ruined protectionist approach to basic industries. Unfortunately, the government’s first steps were to destroy legislation on small business development. This is primarily a review of the tax threshold for single-tax companies. It's at a time when we at the level of the state declare the development and formation of the middle class in our country. And it was only through the efforts of parliament, entrepreneurs, and industry that we were able to restore this law. And how many investors have been affected by the difference in legislation regarding investment in free economic zones and in the priority development zone? No prior analysis, no justification, no identification of who's working negative and who's working positive. I want to ask you a question. Is that more of a confidence in the politics that is being pursued in our country's economic policy? I don't think so. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, today all these shortcomings in the state administration have led to the fact that ordinary people want to hear or work the law, if they are shipbuilders, "Promoting Shipbuilding", which was adopted 5 months ago, but until now the government deliberately refrains from approving the list of enterprises to which this legislation is distributed. Is the Malishev factory and other businesses that are simple today working? Will the persecution of the leaders of large - income businesses be halted? The answer to these questions, simple questions, depends on society’s trust. The faction of industrialists, entrepreneurs of Ukraine, supports your appointment as Prime Minister. The faction of industrialists, entrepreneurs, expresses confidence that the new government will put entrepreneurship and bureaucracy in the service of entrepreneurship, employers, and all those involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u136	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is invited from the Communist faction. Prepare Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u137	Respected colleagues, the Communist faction, believes that the formal resignation of the Government is a cheap political trick in the 2006 Elections big political game. This is not a resignation or a novelty, but a starting point in the use of new political technologies for the deception of the destitute people. The use of resignation as technology demonstrates the boundless cynicism of those who spoke in Maidan of honour and honesty in their love for the people and loyalty to the ideals of Ukraine's independence. The value of these promises is no more than the promise of eternal love that a naive girl offers to a greedy walker. Knowing the value of everyone's greed and sales, this team has taken seriously the deception of old people and children, workers and the unemployed, entrepreneurs, and even now, in history books, it is also the image of those involved in corruption and theft that children are being raised. Let's cheat because he paid generously for US dollars and Berezovsky. Thus, the special operations did not result in a command but rather a special unit whose purpose was to complete the pre-sale preparation of Ukraine's economic space and not after forty years, but only seven months later, Moses Maidan demonstrated their spiritual emptiness. Objective of this resignation: (1) At the 2006 elections, take over the councils of all levels and keep this oligarch team in power. 2) As a result of the Council's capture, the land trade plan should be implemented. Respectable voters, after using the technologies that deceived you in the elections, i.e. the tactics of the dual candidate in which Janukovic played a well-known role as a technical candidate for conspiracy and scenario today, a new campaign and two-block tactics are under way. At the same time, nationalist movements are being formed by a bloc with the support of the President and work in the western areas of Ukraine. The second bloc, headed by the BUIT, should become a technical opposition to power during the elections and take over the east and south of Ukraine. The remaining allies in the political coalition of the current power, as today's writers, have been given the role of “standing on the shooher”. The aim of the resignation is to take away responsibility for the sharp rise in prices and tariffs, meat prices, sugar, grain, gasoline and so on. Take responsibility for the destruction of farmers in the countryside and fail in the crop. From the failure of negotiations with Russia, from the upcoming gas crisis. Cynicism is also referred to as the conspiracy to sell and import raw sugar, export of scrap metal, livestock, privatization of the railway, Skretelekoma and so on. The fight against corruption is also called the entry of a transnational clan with Berezovsky, Kolomoy and so on. Thus, it is clear that the Government of Yehanurov has the role of a boy to fight. We Communists declare that we are ready to form a Government today and take full responsibility for the national security and security programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u138	Ksenija Ljapina is invited to address the faction "Our Ukraine". Raís Bogotyrov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! The “Our Ukraine” faction clearly supports Yuri Yehanurov's candidacy. I emphasize, of course, because not only is it our Yuri Yehanurov, because we know that it combines the two most important knowledge today, is knowledge and understanding of the economy of development, and a systematic understanding of the organization of government. This is not only a person who knows what to do to make Ukraine grow, but a person who can organize this process, which is a very rare thing. We've known Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov for many years, as a person who has consistently created conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the industry for which he has created this development not only in himself, because he knows and he's smart, and he's always created it through the involvement of representatives of the same small, medium-sized business and industry. He was one of the first to initiate public consultations. He was one of the first to take part in the decision - making process, the decision - making process. I'm not saying anything about what he brought into Parliament with you and adopted the Law on Principles of National Regulatory Policy, which, in fact, was designed to implement this slogan, because this slogan cannot be implemented simply by calling for morals, this slogan can only be organized when we properly build a system of government, transparently and openly make public decisions. And this is the person who can do it and knows how to do it. But most importantly, not even that, most importantly, around which priorities we have with you today to unite. You know governments always have their pluses and minuses. For the benefits -- governments praise, for the downside -- governments take off, and there's nothing to worry about. The question is, what are the benefits today, what are the downsides today? I am convinced that Ukraine's economic growth is a plus today. And so we need to unite our efforts all, left and right around us to organize this economic growth. And that's the only economic growth that will ensure the same high social standards that we're all fighting together for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u140	Raisa Bogatirirov of the “Ukraine Region” faction is invited to the presentation. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u141	It's probably the first time I've seen a room like this when I'm going to the rostrum. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! My respectable colleagues and respectable voters! Now I remember one fact: all hurricanes and all tornadoes that pass at different times over different countries bear a woman's name. Unfortunately, Ukraine has not become an exception and a political tornado called “Julia” has also passed over Ukraine. As a result, what the President has said today is absolutely honest. We have: price increases, gas crises, the sugar crisis, the meat crisis, and today we are on the verge of, as analysts say, energy collapse. Today, the whole world has been amazed by the reprivatization that has become an instrument for the plundering of some entrepreneurs and the handing over of such elephants to other entrepreneurs, but already to its own. And the world is amazed to see what will continue in Ukraine. Therefore, the “Regions of Ukraine” faction, in its decision, was based on its main political assessments. We respect Yuri Yehanurov as a professional, and we believe that the Government that will come to Ukraine today should be the Government of Emergency Assistance, the Government that will provide a resuscitation. But any resuscitation does not last long, either the patient dies or is undergoing rehabilitation. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction would very much like the next Government to cease to be a Government of emergency assistance and become a Government of rehabilitation. What does it take? It is necessary to establish such a Government in charge of Yuri Ivanovich, once political reform has taken place since 1 October, when the majority of the House will be politically defined and supported by the Government, will assume responsibility and we will see with you, who have adopted political reform before 2006 what nuances there are in the Government's interaction, which will work on a coalition basis and on the parliamentary mechanisms that this Government must ensure. The new Parliament of 2006 will not miss the opportunity to form its own Government, but it will already make mistakes that we will go through with you and allow it to work on very different principles, criteria and assessments. Therefore, our position is not orthodox, it is absolutely patriotic, it is constructive, and we propose this approach to forming a Government for the Prime Minister's vote from the introduction of political reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u142	Bogdan Hubsky is invited to speak from the "One Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u143	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Ukraine has indeed chosen a course of democratic transformation. And people in the presidential election voted for radical change in our society for democracy, social protection, for honest power, for corruption, for criminal relations between power and capital. We support these and I am absolutely confident that the President of Ukraine is sincerely trying to turn Ukraine into a modern European state. That's what the government team was doing. We can celebrate the truly remarkable achievements of the government of Timoshenko, who has worked consistently to implement the course of radical change of the President of Ukraine. First of all, in the social protection of our citizens. By the way, that's what the president said in his speech. We also fully support the measures that have been taken with regard to the return to state property of illegally privatised objects, including the Chrysalis and others. The elimination of a large number of shadow schemes, including free economic zones. Budget revenue, we've seen it increase by 30 percent over this time. At the same time, after the resignation of the government, we are seeing complex political processes in Ukraine today. I am absolutely sure of that, and once again, I stress that certain bankrupt politicians, including those in power, are "killing a wedge" between the President, Timoshenko and some of the political forces that support the President's programme. These politicians are working against the President and against Ukraine and must be driven out of power. Since 1991, every government has been happy to vote, and then every government has been resigned with a scandal. It was with the government of Yushchenko and this happened to the government of Timoshenko. Hence, it is probably not about personnel but rather about the absence of a civilized system of power relations. An example of Germany. We are now looking at the processes that are going on in Germany and the parliamentary elections themselves. People don't vote for personalities, they vote for parties, they vote for their programs. And now the leader of that party voted for by the people who voted for the program and became prime minister. Hence, it is not a matter of particular personality today. On this basis, on behalf of the faction of the party of the only Ukraine, I would like, at the commission of the national MPs, to disagree with a number of principles of the formation of a new government. First, constitutional reform must take effect and the government will be formed by transparent European procedures. By the way, in this regard, I think it is urgent that we vote for reform on changes to the Constitution in accordance with local self - government. The other one. We are definitely against party quotas in this government. It is declared that it will be purely professional, but it is not a secret that a number of parties, including socialists, already have quotas and it is not a secret. Third. None of the deputies know the future composition of the government, especially our faction. Who will implement the sound program? If those who worked in the past government were to build a garden, why would they build a garden? If new, show me who. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we have three minutes left, so the right to speak is given by Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, the Communist faction according to the record. Then we'll ask Yuri Ivanovich to thank you for the criticism.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u145	Honorable colleagues, respected radio audiences, journalistic associations. On August 24th, President Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich, on the whole of Ukraine's independence field, is evaluating the government's 12-point activities, and now, when not even one month has passed, he is sending the government of innovators, reformers to resign and accuses of many of the deaths. Where he was sincere on August 24 or now when he reported right here to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This will cause you to believe no word of the President from the Washington Communion. By the way, Victor Andryovich, when you declared in your own time that you knew who, when and how you were poisoned. Why so far have you failed to provide relevant information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. What the Communist faction pointed out in this regard was immediately confirmed in December 2004 by the orange, I emphasize, the orange ex-head of the Turkish Security Service, the evidence of the poisoning of Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich is missing, and there is only paper from some overseas laboratories. There's a lot of noise going around about this new government as unengaged in the political sense of managers and professionals. Why then consult and negotiate with political parties and their factions. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't fool people, but honestly note whose proposal will be assigned to any of the capitalist ministers. In the bourgeois state that Ukraine is today, the government has always served certain capitalist corporations that have engaged and pushed certain political parties to push their interests forward. The bourgeois power is a multihead capitalist hydra when instead of one severed head, three new names of a capitalist corporation are growing. Only the Ukraine Company – Vladimir Illich Lenin's party stood up for and advocated his greatness of the people, a nation that has been eclipsed by the beautiful promises of its oppressors and has been 14 years from election to election to vote over and over again by these oppressors. That's why we say, "No, the government of capitalist ministers!" - no matter who throws the new prime minister, a new mission. Thank you for your attention. Ours will take it!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is running out. I ask the Secretariat to invite the national deputies to the session room. And the word is Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u147	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! I am grateful for the suggestions you made in your presentations, which were made by the heads and representatives of the factions. They will be included in the work of the future government. In the event that you agree to my appointment, a real government interaction with the Supreme Council will be ensured, with a view to the benefit of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! I ask you all to sit down now, put your cards in your nests, I mean to vote. And we'll do it now so everyone can register. Yes, please, dear colleagues, do so. Yes. Now, respectable colleagues, according to data, do not have national deputies in connection with their presence in missions. I read the names of the national MPs, if they suddenly come back and they are, I ask you to let me know. Yuri Klukkowski. You don't? Please lock the card. Zara Katusheva. None. Block the card, please. Vladimir Bronnikov. I'm on my way. Block the card, please. Georgi Krutchev. None. Please do the same with the card. Dávemukuk, national deputy. Please lock the card. Mikola Joulinsky. Please lock the card. And Valentin Grigorovich Matthews. He's sick. Dear colleagues! Even if the card works, these votes won't count, these people that I just counted. Please register, prepare for the vote. What? For the reasons of the vote, three minutes, please sign in. Let's follow procedure, dear fellows. Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u149	I think the question is already being discussed, and all the factions have already identified themselves, you don't just have to delay time, and you probably don't have to, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the need to register. We all see who's in the hall, who's gone. Well, who, as a result of the registration of someone who's not in writing, you read it. Let's put it to a vote, we'll vote, we'll vote, we'll vote, we'll vote, we'll vote, we're gonna vote, we're gonna vote, we're gonna vote, we're gonna vote, we're going to vote, we're going to vote, we're going to Why do you have to do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u150	Volodymyr Stretovic. Dear colleagues! I've read the official document, please, I won't be running around the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u151	Party of the Christian Democratic Union, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! In this unforgivable time for Ukraine today, we have the responsibility to give a rudder to the Ukrainian economy, so that one can stand by and level up the difficult situation that millions of our fellow countrymen are facing today. I think that there should be a leader in every farm, and economic policy should be led by Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. I urge you to make your choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u152	Katerina Fomenko Dear colleagues, I ask you not to interfere with my work. I'm not investigating, I'm not checking who I am. They've registered, officially, who's sick, and I've read to you, officially, who's on board, and I've read the help, please. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u153	Please give it to Victor Roswadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u154	Victor Rozwadowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I don't think today's time is necessary, let's vote, let's give the government a chance to work, because the people of Ukraine are expecting us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u156	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u157	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, we don't need to involve Ukraine in an unstable period, we need to identify with the Prime Minister today and give the opportunity to form a government so that we can adopt the budget and go into the electoral process normally. We see that instability for each state does not make any sense. In Germany there were elections, the same number of votes -- and the level of confidence in the German economy is falling. To our economy, the level of trust was never, as it were, at a sufficient level. And that's why we need to take care of the economy of the state today, not about the political interests. Instability is a loss for everyone: both for the power coalition and for the opposition, because ultimately, the main task for us is the standard of living for people. If there's stability in the state, a stable government, living standards will rise. And that's why I think we're going to make the right decision today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u158	George Manchulenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u159	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. The position of our faction was explained by the head of the faction Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko, which remains unchanged. We point out to Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich that the principle that was before business and power were inseparable has no right to remain in the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And we hope it will. And Ukrainian patriots should come to power in various positions, where the Ukrainian state is in the heart, not in the tongue, and not in the first place its own ambitions. Under such conditions, the Ukrainian People’s Party will agree to the formation of new authorities and a new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-20-m0.u160	Please! Dear colleagues, please! May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote so that you can make a conscious choice. Cards of those people who are officially documents that. Please don't put everyone on me. I was approached by Yuri Anatoliyovich, who told me that they were taking cards from people. Please give me the cards, you're all adults who are being taken away. All of it! Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote so that you can make a conscious choice. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 8142, on the granting of an appointment by the President of Ukraine as Prime Minister of Ukraine, Jehanurov Yuri Ivanovich. Please vote. [[13:59:38]] For 223 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Yes, please. Communist faction - 0, “Ukraine” - 3, “Ukraine” - 45, National Party - 44, Timoshenko Block - 1, Ukrainian Socialist Party - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, “Ukraine” - 4, SDPU(o) - 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” - 20, “Reforms and Orders” - 6. Party of Ukrainian Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 15, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, NDP, Trudova Ukraine – 11, non-fractional – 13. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Break until 4:00.
