ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u1	Dear people's deputies, please. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, let's break for 20 minutes, then we'll be able to demonstrate our capabilities. Please. Honorable national MPs, distinguished national colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, please, let's take a break for 20 minutes, so be you. Well, come on out and say, well, come on out, say, well, I'm asking you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Invite the national deputies to the session room. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:40]] There were 365 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, headed by President René Vanderlinden, is in Ukraine with an official visit. Members of the delegation are now in the session room. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the distinguished delegation and wish us our cooperation. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. We need to review in a re-first reading the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar on Internal Quotas. Reporter to the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Oleg Yukhnowsky Microphone, please, Oleg Yuhnowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting, considered a draft bill of the Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian law on State regulation of production, implementation of sugar, which provides for the removal from the basic applicable law of quota B and C and paragraph 11 of article three, leaving the previous decision unchanged, and proposes to reject the draft law. [[Registration number 7568]] I will point out that the biggest cause of the complaint was the deletion of article 11, paragraph 11, of the three national MPs as well as of the producers, which is regarded as a likely refusal by the government to support the national producer and protect the internal market. Once again, my dear colleagues, the committee has supported this preliminary decision and is proposing a bill to reject. But since there are producers from Winnina, manufacturers and practically representatives from all of Ukraine's sugar plants present at the Supreme Council on the second day, I am now addressing Sergey Anatoliyovich, considering that there is no Prime Minister, asking: Sergey Anatoliyovich, have a serious discussion with the sugars, we're going out with the initiative, and I'd like to convey the Prime Minister's request to meet with the representatives of the beet sugar complex, the National Sugar Association of Ukraine in order to hold a substantive discussion on this issue. Sergey Anatoliyovich, those draft regulations and draft laws that you have prepared to comply with the WTO requirements, will eventually destroy the buriacosucre complex. Sergei Anatoliyovich, I'm referring to a draft order for the annulment of previous regulations, including the internal quotas, on the price of producer support. That bill you prepared to meet the WTO requirements for cane sugar at two percent of the customs value and so forth, this list can unfortunately continue. In view of the fact that, unfortunately, these arguments are not being accepted, taken, I reiterate, the committee has proposed a draft law to be rejected. And to Sergio Anatoliovich, once again: Sergey Anatoliyovich, take the initiative to hold an expanded meeting with the Prime Minister. [[It's a sugar request.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u3	Yeah, let's move on to the bill. On the board, the name of the national deputies enrolled for the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Shishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u4	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you can't even hear your name in that noise, you know that. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Of course, we must stand only for the protection of national interests. I address those who are now blocking the rostrum: people good, I have been in opposition all the time, but I have not prevented anyone from exercising their constitutional right to make changes, additions, amendments and to express my opinion. And I'm asking you, don't interrupt and I'll do it. Dear National Deputies! Of course, what is now being proposed must be rejected in the way it is. I agree with the conclusion of the committee that just spoke to Igor Yukhnowsky. And in principle, the deletion of article 3, paragraph 11, from the text of the basic act of action is essential. I quote: "Ukrainian sugar production from imported raw materials is permitted only if the finished production is further exported in full beyond Ukraine's borders within the time limits provided for in Ukrainian legislation." And that means that in this way we're politically protecting the internal market from imports, regardless of whether it goes for a tax scheme or a quota. Secondly, in this way it is guaranteed to the national manufacturer that the internal market is only filled by sugar beet and sugar produced and processed by national producers for state support in accordance with the basic law. And finally, honourable national MPs, I want to make it clear how and how much the price of this question is today. The price of this question is too expensive. It is estimated that some may be able to make a fortune in the amount of some $500 million in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, does this money cost you the destruction of your own sugar industry? I'm talking to the government: let's agree on our Ukrainian interests, the more the restrictions don't conflict with the GAT SOT rules. It allows for the avoidance of the general rules of part two that contain a set of trade agreements if they cannot keep them without violating domestic legislation, which has already become effective before they become contracting parties. This is our internal legislation. It was before governments, different governments made these agreements. And let's get out of the way that even in the WTO they're going to take the position of our internal legislation. Thank you. The project has to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u5	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u6	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! To be honest with one another, it must be acknowledged that in the last decade, sugar production in Ukraine has been reversed from a priority course of farming, not least because of the problems of the raw material base, namely the decline in yield and sugaryness of the beetroot, caused by its circle of reasons: the quality of the seed, the disruption of the agrotechnics, the problems with fertilizers, and so forth. As a result, sugar plants do not have enough raw material to fully load for the period of sugar production, and the total amount of sugar they produce has not been sufficient for several years to satisfy their internal needs. The Act on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar was adopted when Ukraine was still a member of the sugar exporting countries, but even in those days so-called B and C quotas related to the quantities of exported sugar have never been established. Therefore, the removal of these concepts from the law has no effect on the internal market for sugar. The second novelty of the bill cancels the mandatory export of sugar produced from imported raw materials. But again, it's not export now, because the raw materials are imported to satisfy the internal needs. This should be understood. That the internal need for sugar has a tendency to increase, because there are growing volumes of production in areas that consume sugar: confectionery, canned milk, non-alcoholic and others. And part of the production of these industries goes to export. Thus, by legislating part 11 of article 3 on the mandatory export of imported raw sugar, we can artificially create obstacles to the development of our own food industry or provide preconditions for the emergence of a deficit of sugar in the internal market, the growth of the volume of its smuggling, and so forth. Thus, the approval of Bill No. 7568 is not limited. will help to regulate the difficult issues of the negotiating process for Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization, but it also has completely objective needs in the sugar sector as well as the growth in internal consumption of sugar. I therefore propose to support this bill. At the same time, I think it's important to stress that it's a difficult task for the government to develop a comprehensive system of measures that will ensure the accelerated development of the sugar sector and the increase in the production volume of sugar, at least until the needs of the internal market are fully met. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u7	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, today's law, which we are considering, determines public policy in terms of production, export, import, wholesale and retail trade in sugar. And there's a question. The question is that, unfortunately, the sugar industry in Ukraine is in disgrace, I am not afraid of that word, the situation. That is why we must do everything we can to make it grow. Regrettably, a number of things have been called into question in this bill. One. These changes, which are expected, will change the structure of the sugar market in Ukraine and there are questions that will not make it better. In particular, those rules that allow imports of raw sugar and after processing do not export it, as was the case in previous legislation, may result in our sugar beet producers staying at their disposal because some real substitutes for raw sugar that will be imported will not be available to us, and that is why we can bury some of our agriculture. In view of this, it should be further noted that the accompanying documents to the Act do not provide an estimate of the expected implications of the adoption of the bill in part of the State budget. This is also an issue that we must take into account, because the good wishes for the development of our market, the openness of our market for world trade must, in my view, be related to the interests of our domestic producer, whether it concerns processors or the producer of sugar beet, which is also principled. The sugar industry in Ukraine must exist because it is one of the fundamental elements of our agriculture and our manufacturing industry. I would therefore call for the utmost attention to be given to supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u9	Yuri Solomatin, please, microphone. Solomonine, microphone. Dear colleagues! As long as we turn on Yuri Solomatin's microphone, I'd like to ask, dear colleagues. You're already screaming at these megaphones, but don't include this bump, it's very negative. Let me explain if you don't have anything. This has a profound effect on the body, on health, on yourself, and on people. Well, yell at the megaphone, please. Please, Yuri Petrovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u10	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear listeners, voters, compatriots! Our blue-eyed northern neighbor, the famous Belarus on the sands and swamps of Polissa, has provided herself with 100 percent of her own sugar, and no need for any intervention, because it costs this sugar, has such a price that it is acceptable to people, first of all. And yesterday, when the Ukrainian Supreme Council of Sugarworks came to us, begging us to protect the sugar industry, not to let sugar factories continue to be looted, to cut them into scrap metal, to preserve the jobs of all people. And they brought two bullets of sugar. One sugar for our respectable Prime Minister Julia. And they've been asked to say that they're ready to deliver this bullet sugar at any address. And the second round of sugar, they asked for a bill for further destruction of the sugar sector to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But in view of the fact that he's not here today, I think, I think, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, they could hand over this bullet sugar to the memorial and to you, as head of the National Party of Ukraine, which was once called the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I beg you, I have the same attitude towards the agribusiness complex as most national deputies. I'm a consumer, but when I see people's eyes in a small village, or in a district center, they beg to protect at least the rest of what's left in the Ukrainian village today. I'm not only addressing you all on my own behalf, I'm addressing not only our faction, whose position is known to everyone and every Ukrainian citizen. I'm addressing every national, really national deputy in Ukraine: not supporting this bill, saving the sugar industry, and solving the problems that have just accumulated elsewhere. I will be grateful to you and the people of Ukraine will be grateful to anyone who does not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, in politics, let's move on to the last thing. I think, obviously, we're talking about something wrong with that bill. As for sugar, please pass the sugar bag, we'll take it to the children's house. The bill has been completed. Dear colleagues, Minister of Economy Sergei Teryohin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very sorry that I can't exactly prove the government's position in relation to this pink circus that's going on here, but I'd like to remind you that this bill cancels two quotas, doesn't set, but cancels two quotas for importing sugar: the "b" quota under international agreements and the "c" quota that actually applies to donor raw materials. I also remind you that the Supreme Council has recently adopted the Vasuk Act, as a tax commodity, where it is established that it can be processed into cheese, but under the mandatory requirement of its export of 100 percent outside Ukraine. If you take this law and the law of Catherine Vaschuk, which was signed today by the President of Ukraine, to your knowledge, any warnings will be withdrawn. So the position of the government is: we ask you to support this law as a basis. After that, we agree with the proposal made by Deputy Yukhnowsky to hold a general meeting of the sugars and Prime Minister of Ukraine to clarify the positions on the future state support for this area. So once again, the request is to take this law as a basis and move on to its negotiation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar has been completed. [[on internal quotas]] Put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. [[on internal quotas]] [[Registration number 7568]] I'd like to make a statement. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:21:58]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 73, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 1, National Party - 12, Block Timoshenko - 38, SPU - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, "Ukraine" - 18, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, Postfraction - 12. Dear colleagues, let's go over the projects in the second reading. On the second reading, we were about to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities to bring its individual provisions into line with the requirements for Ukraine's entry into WTO. Please, who will report from the committee? Who will report from the committee? Dear colleagues, the amendments made by the Black people's deputies, Yankovsky, have been taken into account. What will be the offer? May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, vote for adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities to bring its individual provisions into line with the requirements for Ukraine's entry into the WTO. Registration number 7566. Please vote. [[16:24:22]] For 267 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the customs tariff]] [[resecond reading]] Hometicist Vitaly Yuriovich, please. Homutinika's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this is the third time we have considered this issue, and the last edition of the Cabinet of Ministers' draft law is the result of ongoing consultations between government officials and deputies, between producers, processors and consumers of agricultural products. During the drafting of the bill for rereading the second reading, Ukrainian national deputies and government representatives worked together on proposals and observations by law enforcement entities and approved appropriate decisions to protect the interests of the domestic producer. A total of 167 proposals from 17 national deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers were received for the second reading of the bill, of which 31 are included. The committee decided to adopt the bill in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We just voted on Law 7566, but after we voted on it, we got replaced. That's why I'm saying to the stenographer that we voted the bill without a substitute, so there's no charge. Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u16	Honourable National Deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, along with the National Deputies, worked very carefully on the second reading of Law 7181, and found all agreements in all positions, namely the Ukrainian Association of Birds. The consent protocol has been signed. She made a call to the Supreme Council, just like the Committee on Agrarian Politics. All questions have been clarified, except for one, unfortunately, for technical reasons at 15-11, 90-99 and at 15-13, 29-19, which concerns palm oil, which is used in the fat industry, in the food industry, an unagreed rate of 5 percent was set. So the government insists on the rate that was in the first reading, and given this proposal, we ask you to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u17	Dear National Deputies! Please, there are some amendments to the principle. Allow them to be discussed. Then turn it back on. Well, please. Hometic, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u18	Dear National Deputies! There's a suggestion that we make a decision in general under this law exactly the way that the committee proposed, because if we go to the amendments now, I think it's going to be very difficult to do that in this situation. Therefore, the proposal to vote is in the same line as that of the committee. As for the economy minister's proposal, there are still alternative proposals that put 10-15 percent. I propose not to get involved in the voting on these proposals right now, but to vote on this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u19	Dear National Deputies! Since there is nothing to be heard, I have only one thing left to put to the vote. Just don't hear anything. So I'm voting on the second reading and generally as the bill of amendment to some of Ukraine's customs tariff laws, registration number 7181. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:29:28]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Well, give me a chance to hear anything then, and then turn it on, please! "Our Ukraine" - 78, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 0, People's Party - 7, Block Timoshenko - 38, SPU - 2, Ukrainian People's Party - 24, "One Ukraine" - 19, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Afterfractional" - 13. Announcing the project. The decision is not taken with regard to the previous bill. Please turn on the Prime Minister's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have an agreed position with the birds. I don't think it's just the Agrarian Party that heard it. The People's Party didn't hear that the birds and I are all in agreement. Given the technical conditions under which we are voting right now, I ask you to put the vote again, because people have not heard the government's explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u21	I'm asking for your attention! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I will now put to the vote a motion for a return to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7181. [[on the customs tariff]] Back to the debate. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:31:43]] For 212 A draft Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport is being announced for consideration. Registration number 7570. Come on. If possible, return the previous ballot. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 78, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 2, People's Party - 16, Block Timoshenko - 39, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 24, Ukraine - 19, SDPU - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 14, Democratic Initiatives - 4, non-fractional 14. Dear colleagues, we did count. The committee's asking? Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to re-read the draft law, registration number 7181. I'm putting this motion to a re-second reading vote. I'd like to make a statement. 7181. Please vote. The vote is coming, vote, please. [[16:33:26]] For 210 Well, please, do some consulting! A draft Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport is being announced for consideration. Registration number 7570. Anatoly Seminoga, microphone, please. Well, let's hear the argument, then we'll signal, please! I can't hear you, they don't understand what the vote is about!Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u22	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The bill provides, first, for the prohibition of imports into the customs territory of a country of cars over 8 years of age. The other one. Establishing strict environmental requirements for vehicles imported into Ukraine’s customs territory, more than five years of age. Third. implementation of the requirements of national standards to the standards of the United Nations European Economic Commission for Europe. . The committee received proposals from the Cabinet of Ministers and National Deputies of Vasadze, Fíalkowski, Kaletnik, who were objectively evaluated and duly accounted for. The Committee on Finance and Banking generally supports the final revision proposed for your consideration of the bill and requests it to accept it on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u23	Let's do some repairs. Tariel Vasadze, correction. Do you insist on them? Vasadze's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u24	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to draw Sergey Anatolievich's attention. Sergei Anatolievich, we have a 4th article, where since January 1, 2007 we have written, and in fact we have introduced since January 1, 2006. Article 4 of January 2006 should be amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u25	So you're insisting on your amendments? Unheard, I beg you, give me a chance. Please, Teryohin, microphone, Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u26	Dear National Deputies! Tariel Shakrovitch Vasadze's proposal was discussed in the government today, and the government supports it. That is why we can adopt this law with the laws of Tariel Shakrovitch as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u27	One question. Sergey Anatolyevich, all right?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u28	There is one amendment to the 4th article on the deadline for the introduction of environmental standards: instead of in 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u29	Do you agree? Dear colleagues! There is no need to vote when this amendment is included. Just a minute. Oleg Petrov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you again, because I didn't hear in paragraph 1, where we agreed, to add to buses and trucks to add permanent use of trams and trolleybuses, except for tram cars, the width of which is 1,000 millimetres, which are not produced in Ukraine. That's a very good point. I'd like the government to support it, too. We've counted it before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u31	Yeah, what? The amendment needs to be voted on? Sergey Anatolyevich? Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Petrov's correction? Peter’s fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u32	So it's on trams and trolleybuses. A reasonable offer, too, can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u33	Maintain Peter’s Amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers suggests that we accept and consider the amendment made by Petrov. No warning? So, according to the amendments, who else has the correction? Who, who? Yes, all the corrections are taken into account, the ones that were. Dear colleagues, I mean Vasadze and Petrova. In view of this, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport for adoption in second reading and in general as the Law. Registration number 7570. [[16:38:39]] For 245 The law is passed. The draft Law on General Product Safety has been announced for consideration. Vadim Gurov, microphone, please. Well, please. Where's the chart?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u36	On this issue, my colleague, Matvienkov Sergei, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u37	Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is no committee on this issue. It's not a simple question, it's a very serious question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u38	Microphone, please. Isn't he on? Turn on the microphone on the stand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u39	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the Government. We held a committee meeting on this bill. The law is really not simple, the law is complicated. We set up a working group, a commission. There are rules for the implementation of standards. It takes two more days to gather all the amendments for today's committee meeting, and we are truly surprised that we did not include this bill on the agenda. There is no committee submission. There's no deceleration plate. What we want to see is, frankly, we don't understand. We have not considered the Committee, once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, give us a chance to say. That's right. Dear colleagues, wait a minute, I just found a letter in the paper signed by the committee's executive head asking him to transfer his consideration to the committee. What position is there for the government in this regard? Please, Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is already under consideration for so many terms that twice or three times exceeded the standard terms of its consideration. So I have a request then. In order to now, although the government may have a regulatory authority to insist on its consideration today, regardless of whether the committee is prepared or not, the committee is not prepared. But in order to find a normal solution to this situation, ask for this law tomorrow afternoon and ask the committee to hold a final or tomorrow morning’s meeting. We will be happy to share in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, I'm asking the committee to hold a meeting, make a decision. What kind of decision will you make so that we can consider this bill tomorrow afternoon? Please provide for the schedule. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Development Act on Localization is being announced for consideration. Registration number 7569. The reporter is the head of the committee's subcommittee on industrial policy and enterprise, Vitaly Majko. Vitaly Mike's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u43	The law committee looked around, supported the law. There's only one comment that's not accepted, Gorbaña. But the remark works against the domestic manufacturer. Therefore, we feel that the law must be adopted. All procedures have been completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u44	National deputy Gorbal, the amendment that has been rejected, do you insist on it? No, there isn't. Please, Minister of Economics. I'm asking you to turn around a little bit. You can't, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a powerful example of good government work and appropriate industrial enterprises. And this bill is specifically designed to protect the internal market more clearly. It takes a normal approach to a competitive environment that is consistent with all stakeholders. So the government confirms the words of the deputy Mike that everything was completely agreed upon and asks him to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Automotive Industrial Development Act, registration number 7569. [[about the cancellation of localization conditions]] [[16:44:23]] For 236 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act, registration number 7564-1, is being announced for consideration. [[for non-resident insurance companies]] Vitaly Hometic, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, it is suggested that you consider the amendments to the Insurance Act, which has been developed into a second reading by the Committee on Finance and Banking. This bill proposes the removal from the defence of non-resident affiliates' access to Ukraine's market in a complex with a number of new standards that define the rules governing the operation of such branches in Ukraine and establish these rules as equivalent to those of domestic insurance companies. I want to remind you that the first law, which was a government law that had only five years and that was a dot, was not adopted by Parliament. So we proposed a committee draft law that clearly sets out the criteria and rules for non-resident insurance in Ukraine. The stated requirements for non-resident insurance branches will ensure that unscrupulous insurers are not admitted to the market in Ukraine and will protect consumers of insurance services from the risk of default by such insurance companies. The second reading came up with 10 suggestions and they're all taken into account. In view of the committee’s presentation, he decided to support the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u48	Yes, please, Minister of Economy Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u49	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Sadly, this bill produced an unpleasant story. The government appealed to the Finance Committee on the grounds that the bill was first adopted with two warnings. The first warning applied to the sixth article of the first article, which introduced a 150 million-dollar requirement into its own non-resident insurance capital. This is harshly contrary to the rules of the WTO, and we suggested that this article be removed. The second proposal applied to item seven, where the non-resident insurance branch's financial reliability rating was to be set at the resident's financial reliability rating level. And the third suggestion was that the activities of the non-resident insurance branch should meet the requirements laid down in this law for residents. Unfortunately, it fell out, or it was technical. If that was intentional, such a law would not be necessary, if that was technically necessary, then it could be voted in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u50	Vitaly Hometic, please. But let me hear you put what you know on the vote. Please, just one second. Please, Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I want to remind you that there were three things in the transcript when we adopted this law. I'm reminding you what things were about: first, it's to put 5 years, not 10 years, as suggested in the first reading. This proposal was accepted by the committee. Second, there was a 15-year rule for a non-resident insurance company. This was recorded in the transcript when you said that. This position was also taken into account by the committee. And the third position is to allow non-resident insurance companies to market a mandatory type of insurance. These three suggestions were taken into account, as we agreed. What you're saying in addition should have worked more closely with the committee, because we have our thoughts on these issues, and we could have gone to the meeting if we had a conversation on these issues. Please, Terjehohin. I'll have to bet. The committee's drafting, do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee's editing creates an absolute distortion of competition within the country, unwarranted. Therefore, the government cannot accept these approaches. It's a pure wave of lobbyism that's now written in the committee. So the way out, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so the way out of this situation, the government thinks that this bill should be re-readed for its next revision, so that we can agree with the Committee on Finance by the end of the week.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u53	The committee doesn't object to rereading? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, the re-reading procedure will take us at least two weeks of the Rules. So I suggest that we not vote in the second reading, but just move on for the day. Perhaps tomorrow or Friday, that is to say, simply withdraw it from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u55	So what do you suggest? Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that since differences arise, it should be removed from the vote today in order to hold further consultations. Is there no objection? So let's take a look at it. Yes, my fellow Members, I ask you, we must now conclude our consideration of issues relating to privatization issues. Well, we can rule it out. The Soviet laws have already been passed. Dear National Deputies! We need to get to the bottom of this. Before the completion of the consideration of the draft legislation on privatization issues. We've discussed them, we need to have a discussion process. Please, calm down! To this day, we have finished our consideration of Sotovsky. Please. Give me a chance, you can't take it anymore. Yeah, I'm asking who signed up. Dear National Deputies! You and I will consider 11 draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that are not subject to privatization. We're left with respectable colleagues to listen to the committee report. from the Committee and the Special Monitoring Commission on Privatization. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u56	The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting on 22 June this year, considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on List of Objects. State property. .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! The committee's decision from each bill is. I see this situation, no one's signed up for the speech. So I have every reason to now consider two draft inadmissibility decrees, the authors of Polyakov and the Cloud. Polack took hers. Stepan Ilkovich of the Cloud insists on a draft decision on inadmissibility? Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the adoption of the bill for registration number 5043-3. Take down the vote. Please turn on the microphone. From the special control committee, Kirichenko Ludmila, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u58	Honourable People's Deputies, the Special Privatization Monitoring Committee, at its meeting, decided to support the bill on the inclusion of Krivoroztali in the list of enterprises that were not to be privatized. You know how many States, the people who are standing with the State today, have said that this enterprise should be owned by the State. The fact that Gurov is withdrawing his bill today is no reason for us not to vote on the bill. Since the project was submitted by Semenyuk, Bastrego and Nadrag, who wrote that he was not withdrawing his bill. Not enough, I want to tell you that a similar bill was passed on 8.06.2005 by Moroz, Vinski, Berezev and Rudzkowski. We therefore have every reason today to vote on the bill. I ask you once again to support the Special Privatization Monitoring Commission and to leave this enterprise, Krivoroztal, to state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u59	I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? On adoption as the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 5043-3]] [[16:59:23]] For-137 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of draft Law 5043-10. [[16:59:49]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I'm voting on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 5043-14]] [[17:00:16]] For 253 Decision taken. I'm voting on the basis of draft law 5043-15. [[17:00:41]] For 245 Decision taken. I'm voting on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 6130]] [[17:01:11]] For-125 The decision is not taken. Project rejected. I'm voting on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 6130-3]] [[17:01:38]] For 168 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of a bill, registration number 6310-1. [[17:02:05]] For 273 Decision taken. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of a bill, registration number 6310-3. [[17:02:31]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I'm voting on the basis of the bill, registration number 7272. [[17:02:58]] For 308. Decision taken. I'm voting on the basis of Bill 7272-1. [[17:03:21]] For 304 Decision taken. I'm voting on the basis of the bill, registration number 7272-2. [[17:03:45]] For 217 The decision is not taken. All of it. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We have here for re-examination with the President's proposals, and there's a bill on the Code of Administrative Justice. I'd like to take this situation into account in the elections when we've finished our consideration of this bill. Adam Ivanovich, keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u60	There is a Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine with proposals from the President. [[completed]] Registration number 1331. Justice Minister Zvaric Roman Mikhailovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u61	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! The Code of Administrative Justice adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 March this year cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine and needs to be reconsidered on such grounds. The adoption of the Code, as well as the introduction of the new Civil Procedure Code and an important stage in the approval of Ukraine as a democratic legal state, the development of its judicial system, the introduction of a qualitatively new mechanism to protect the constitutional rights and interests of citizens. Another confirmation of the constitutional postulate that human rights and freedoms determine the content and direction of the State’s activities. The introduction of the Code will create conditions for the deployment of the system of administrative courts, which will be one guarantee of the reality of the constitutional right to charge before the court of decisions or omissions of public authorities. At the same time, understanding the importance of this Code cannot ignore the realities of the present and the possible consequences of the individual provisions of this Code. The Constitution stipulates that the investment of judges is extended to all legal relations arising in the State and that the judiciary is carried out by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. With regard to laws and other legal acts, the Constitution establishes a special procedure for the judicial review by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of their conformity with the Basic Law. However, the Code establishes a different order from the Constitution. It is a matter of initiating a review of any legal act by an administrative court, by which the court may decide to attract, declare such an act illegal. In addition, the mechanism in place provides for a simplified procedure for dealing with the selected category of acts. Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine made specific proposals and observations on this project. Some of these suggestions were taken into account by the Professional Committee. Instead, he did not count others. Today, this codex will be presented for your consideration in a new edition. We ask you, if you don't support all the President's proposals, yet make a decision to approve this code in a new edition, which will allow us to at least work on it further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u62	Thank you, from the profiling committee, please microphone, the heads of the committee's committee on legal policy, Head Sergei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u63	Honorable fellow workers! The Legal Political Committee considered all the President’s proposals and made the following decision: Four suggestions to reject, and a fifth proposal regarding transitional provisions, such as paragraph 6, to support, take into account. So, Adam Ivanovich, can we speak normally now?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u64	You've been talking before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u65	The committee considered all the President’s proposals, five of them. The committee rejected four suggestions and counted one. The Committee therefore requests the Supreme Council to adopt the Code in a new edition, taking into account the position of the Committee on the Sixth Final and Transitional Provisions. Please support the committee's proposal: a new edition regarding the sixth Final Position item.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u66	It's not just about the End - of - the - we're talking about a new edition: either in a new edition or in no edition. There's no point anymore. We don't have a record of this. So we're going to vote. Take it, dear fellows. Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful, first of all, to those who display today's political position, who have been able to consider this very important bill. This is not just about the Code of Administrative Justice, which will allow us to actually implement the system of administrative courts before the parliamentary elections next year. I'm not going to explain to you why this position is extremely important for both the opposition and the power. Secondly, it is accepted and signed, i.e. the Civil Procedure Code, which has already been signed by the President, that is to say, it takes effect as it enters into force. That's exactly what the MP Corps did when we adopted the Civil Procedure Code. And so in order to be able to organize civil-law relations, first of all in procedural and procedural terms, we ask you to listen at least to the profiling committee, if you do not support the President's proposals, and to support this code in a new edition, which will allow us to work at least further on it or to work on it so that the President can still sign it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u68	In accordance with the procedure for reviewing the President's proposals, we will first vote on the President's proposals. The President's motion in article 3, part 1, paragraph 3, is put to the vote to exclude the words “the judge of the Administrative Court who examines and decides the administrative case individually”. The profile committee rejected the offer. I'm voting on the President's proposal. [[17:12:00]] For-123 The offer is not supported. The President's proposal is put to the vote. In part 3 of article 19 of the Code, replace the words “accusation of the laws of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” with the words “accusation of acts of an individual nature adopted by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that violate the rights of a specific person of legal acts”. The committee is proposing to reject it, but I'm voting on the president's proposal. [[17:12:50]] For 114 Not supported. A third president's motion is put to the vote. Article 23 reads: "Administrative judiciality is collegiate. All administrative cases before the court of the first instance, except those established by this law, shall be dealt with and decided by a college composed of three judges." I'll bet you a vote on the President's proposal. The committee turned it down. [[17:13:33]] For 115 Not accepted. The President's fourth proposal. "The name and paragraph 1 of part 1 of article 171 of the Code, in accordance with the following wording: Article 71. Specialities in the introduction of cases concerning the prosecution of acts by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime of Law. The committee turned it down. I'll bet you a vote on the President's proposal. [[17:14:18]] For 128 Not accepted. And we still have our fifth offer. So what are the proposals of the committee? Please, again, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! The committee agreed with the President's proposal to make a point of closing and transitional clauses in the following wording: "Before the District Administrative Court begins its activities, administrative matters to the Economic Courts are decided in accordance with the 1991 Code of Masters of Ukraine by the relevant Economic Court under the rules of the Code of Administrative Justice. In doing so, the jurisdiction of such cases is determined by the Code of Procedure of the Master." The Committee requests the Supreme Council to take this proposal into account and give a positive vote by a simple majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u70	I am voting on the president’s fifth proposal, which is supported by a profile committee. Please vote. This is where the offer came in. [[17:15:33]] For 277 Copy that. In general, what a proposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u71	Committee proposal: recommend that the Supreme Council approve the Code of Administrative Justice in a new edition, including a paragraph that we voted on, in a new edition and send the code to the President for signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u72	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich, sit down. A proposal by a committee of profile, which essentially coincides with the Ministry of Justice, to adopt a codex. Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u73	Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you to abstain, insist that I represent the position of the Ministry of Justice or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I immediately presented the position of the President of Ukraine as I was authorized to do so. I didn't speak for the Justice Department. But anyway, I'm very much in favour of all of you, national deputies, please. To adopt this Code to enable us to establish a system of administrative judges and to enable us to implement the Civil Procedure Code from September 1st this year. We will be very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u74	Yes, Roman Mikhailovich, thank you. But I said in a word what you said in 10 sentences. So there is a joint opinion of the Committee and the Minister, who represents the President's interests in adopting the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality with the President's proposals in the new edition, registration number 1331. Please vote. [[17:17:17]] For 305 Copy that. In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 75, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 46, People's Party - 26, Block Timoshenko - 34, Socialist - 20, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, "One Ukraine" - 19, Social-Democratic Party - 19, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, "Industry, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" - 14, Democratic Initiatives - 1, non-fractional - 12. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Political Parties Act with Presidential Proposals, registration number 1288. Justice Minister Zvaric Roman Mikhailovich, please. Get ready for the Frost of Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u75	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable Adam Ivanovich and distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 19, last year, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Political Parties cannot be signed from the following. First, article 1 of section 1 of the Act proposes to impose restrictions on political party membership for officials of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration. In this regard, it should be noted that according to article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Tax Services in Ukraine, the State Tax Administration in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, the State Tax Inspections in the Regions, Cities, and Cities, and so on. Under such circumstances, the separation of employees from the State tax administration alone for the establishment of the specified restriction is artificial and unlikely to be appropriate. It is understood that this prohibition should apply to the employees of all public tax authorities. So it is suggested that the second paragraph of article 1 of chapter 1 of the first law should be drafted in such an order, paragraph 6, of the State Tax Office. The other one. Article 2 of chapter 1 of the First Law proposes that article 11 of the Act should be supplemented by new provisions concerning the legalization of primary party organisations, political parties which, by the statute of political parties, do not have the status of a legal person. By means of a written report by the local administration of justice on their creation, and by the local administration of justice on legalization of the original party organization within three hours, I emphasize, within three hours of the adoption of legalization documents. On this point, it should be noted that a mandatory registration has been established in part of article 11 of the Ukrainian Political Parties Act, both district, city and district organizations, as well as any other structural formations of the political party, and there is no possibility of any other legalization. Accordingly, the term “registration authority” is used in the law, which can hardly be marked by a body that legalizes by adopting a written message. In view of this and other comments made by the President of Ukraine, this law cannot be signed. Please take into account the President's proposals, which are expressed in the order of the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, I repeat, the motive is only by law. I know what you want. Let's finish the law and then there'll be motives. Sit down and calm down, or you won't get it at all. Correspondent from the Committee of Frost Alexander Alexandrovich. None. Then I'll give you the conclusion of the committee. The Committee's conclusion. Partly consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine and accept them in the new edition. Once again, we follow the same procedure. Wine microphone, what's up?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In fact, proposals for changes to the Law on Political Parties for this item, against which the minister of justice has just spoken. It's about political parties that have branched out structures, creating their original partnerships in villages, in the home committees, and so forth. And they're forced to register by procedure as they register with paradises, miscreants and all that sort of thing, district organizations. The point was that for these structures that do not have the right of a legal person to simplify this process instead of registering to legalize. So if we're removing the whole law, there's no point in this law in principle, because that's why we made these proposals. You realize we have 15,000 villages today. In each village, you can create a party organization, and that is to go from village to city center, take documents to register a full organization, three times in a party in the village of Ivanovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u78	I see. I'll go with the amendments, dear colleagues, be careful. The President's first amendment is counted. The president's second amendment was rejected. The substance of the amendment. The second section of the first law proposes to supplement article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Political Parties in Ukraine with a new provision on the legalization of primary party organizations, political parties that do not have the status of a legal person under the Constitution of political parties, by means of a written report by the local administration of justice on their formation, as well as on the provision by local government of legalization of the primary party organization of the political party within three hours of the date of the adoption of legalization documents. For this reason, it should be noted that part of the seventh article 11 of the law establishes mandatory registration of both district city and district organizations, as well as any other structural formations of the political party, so the primary party organizations and there is no possibility of any other legalization of them. Accordingly, the term “registration authority” is used in the law, which can hardly be defined by a body that legalizes by adopting a written message. Furthermore, part of article 11 of the Political Parties Act in Ukraine states that the structure provided for in the Political Party Statute is a registering body. Thus, the position regarding the legalization of the primary organizations of political parties, which are proposed to supplement article 11 of the Act, is contrary to the rules of part seven, nine of this article of the Act, which establishes the exclusive registration of any structural formations of political parties and gives them a registration certificate. It is therefore suggested that we conceptually determine the legalization of primary party organizations by writing about their formation. If such a rule is introduced, parts of the seventh and ninth articles of article 11 and other rules of the law also need to be amended accordingly. The President's proposal is rejected. I'm putting her to the vote. The committee turned it down. [[17:25:35]] For-59 Not supported. The only colleagues, I remind you, are the proposals of the previous President. Yes, the other President's proposals are taken into account. So we can suggest that we put him to a new vote. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Political Parties Act with the President's proposals of 10 March 2004 in a new edition. [[Registration number 1288]] [[17:26:31]] For 261 The law is passed. The question is: Ukraine's Act of Amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since October 1, 2004. Registration number 257. Justice Minister Zvaric Roman Mikhailovich will report. According to Musiak Victor Lavrentiovich. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! On 9 September last year, Parliament passed the Act amending the Act on Enforcement, which, in accordance with part two of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, was returned with the President's proposals, expressed in the veto order for review by the Supreme Council 3. These changes are not in line with existing legislation for the following reasons. The Act's part of the first article of the 62nd Act "On Executive Conduct" is supplemented by a rule according to which, in the implementation of a housing or apartment where the acquisition was based on implementing documents, the possibility of further granting the debtor of another living room of a smaller size, but no less than the standard laid down in article 47 of the Ukrainian Code of Housing should be taken into account. In doing so, the law does not contain guidelines on who should be given the opportunity to provide other housing. I would ask that this particular situation be given special attention. The executive service will not be able to handle this law in the way it is now written. According to article 124 of the Ukrainian Constitution, judicial decisions are approved by courts in the name of Ukraine, and they are mandatory for enforcement throughout Ukraine. In accordance with the article of the first Ukrainian Act on State Enforcement and the articles of the second Ukrainian Act on Enforcement, the enforcement of decisions by the courts and other bodies in Ukraine relies on the State Executive Service, which is part of the system of organs of the Ministry of Justice. Article 50 of the Act states that in the absence of the diviner of funds and values sufficient to meet the requirements of the retractor, the collection shall apply to the debtor other property, except for property that cannot be charged under the law. The borrower has the right to indicate the types of property or items to which it is necessary to draw first. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be able to read all the President's remarks, because there are a lot of them here, but I will come to a summary conclusion. This bill cannot be signed not only on the grounds that I have just outlined in the Constitution of Ukraine, but on the basis of the general conceptual principles that we have adopted with you when, at least, I was still a national deputy, as defined in the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct. But here, too, this bill introduces new mechanisms that are virtually impossible for them to be involved in the executive service, because they are directly in conflict with many of the rules set out in the law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u80	Please allow the Minister to complete his reasoning on the position of President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u81	And they don't go in either, they don't have to deal with the individual dispositions set out in the Ukrainian Act on State Executive Service, which defines the competence of the performers. So, practically, this law, very little that it can't be done, it goes into conflict, it's going to create a very big chaos in the execution system. So the President's proposal is to reject this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u82	Victor Musiak, head of the Legal Policy Committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u83	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy considered the proposals by the President of Ukraine for a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement and concluded that it was necessary to support the President's proposal. Well, at first glance, the proposal put forward in this bill is acceptable in terms of what is listed as a whole category of citizens that cannot be evicted if they refuse to pay their debts for utilities and housing. But, at the same time, it must be that similar situations are well worked out in appropriate special laws. This is the law, let's say ownership, this is the future that we're going to adopt, the housing code. But it's not in the law on enforcement, because it turns out that the performer has to solve all of these problems, to determine the housing in which a citizen lives, who doesn't pay debts for housing services. Nor is it distributed to whom else this citizen may be owed. In addition to housing and utilities, he can go into different civil law relations and be a debtor. In other words, all of this should not be in the law on the implementation and enforcement of this mechanism, it is necessary to define very clearly, among other things, the category that was laid down here in the law, the category that defines veterans, members of the Great Homeland War, not taking into account the provisions of article 4 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantees of Their Social Protection, where war veterans also include participants, war invalids, war participants. All these things that are useful are essentially to be worked out, I repeat, in a special law. The committee therefore decided to support the President’s proposal and requested the Supreme Council to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u84	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. You will be given a review of the adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Implementation of Proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 2507 in a new edition. Please vote. [[17:34:05]] For 343 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! If you don't mind, we'd now adopt a draft decree to change the boundaries of the city of Alushta of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. No warning? Can I have a glass, please? Vladimir Leschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u85	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! All matters relating to the boundaries of the earth must be carefully considered. I'm saying this because the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations didn't come to this question, and we didn't look at it. We can't say whether it's right or wrong. In addition, the profile committee noted in paragraph 3, that monitoring of the implementation of this decision should be placed on the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government and on agrarian policy and land relations. I propose that we postpone consideration of this issue until we consider how this is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u86	Dear colleagues! I propose in the draft law before bringing it into your consideration for inclusion in the agenda, after "state building and local self-government." Since the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government was the leader here, let him exercise control and respond, and remove "agrarian politics." With this proposal in mind, I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order, registration number 6762 on the change in the boundaries of the city of Alushta of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Please vote. [[17:36:25]] For three hundred Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if you don't have any warnings, I'll put you to the vote for this ruling. That's the second question you have. On the adoption of a draft Supreme Council decision to change the boundaries of the city of Alushta of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Registration number 7762. Please vote. Take off the vote, take off the vote. Zara Katusheva, please. We're fine. We'll make a decision. Please, then Kirichenko had a question. Okay, okay, okay. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u87	In discussing this order, I proposed to the Committee on Statehood and Local Self-Government: to establish strict control over the distribution of the land. But why is there no point in the ruling given today in this room. And I insist that this paragraph be included. I'll explain why if you give me a chance. The problem of land dissipation, justice must be said to be a common problem for Ukraine as a whole, but the situation in Crimea is particularly complex. And since the Crimean earth is expensive and as a result, earth - related machinations are very common here. The uniqueness of Crimea land is wrapped in romanticism and mystery, where cultures of the East and the West meet, traces of ancient civilizations, medieval fortresses, magnificent palaces, excavations of ancient Hersones, Panticopei. Skiff. Crime is the cross between ancient civilizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u88	Please give me the opportunity to complete your opinion, please, two more minutes, please, a microphone, a microphone. Zarya Katusheva's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u89	Regrettably, the boundaries of most settlements, including Alushta, have not yet been established. Justice must be said that the newly arrived Crimean Prime Minister is concerned about this situation, and he has therefore turned to the Committee in profile, which he himself presided over. Our decision was to deliver. We must make that decision in order to protect the lands of the Wakhanali in the Crimea. The complexity of the land problem is also linked to the return and establishment of deported citizens and residents, large numbers of Alushta residents. I therefore proposed that the use of the 110 hectares of land should be under special control and distributed, including for housing and utilities: 40 per cent for Alushta, 40 per cent for deported citizens, 20 per cent for youth housing. This approach will provide an opportunity to decompose the difficult situation in the Crimea to some extent. Therefore, I ask you, my distinguished colleagues, to include in the ruling a paragraph to take special control over the use of this land. Control of such an order shall be entrusted to the Committees of State and local self-government, agrarian policy and land relations. That is how we voted in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u90	Thank you. Chubarov's reaction, please. Until Rephat Chubarov. If you write this down, please note that the third paragraph of "control over the implementation of this decision is to place on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, obliging it to pay particular attention to the use of land included within the city of Alushta in accordance with this decree. Is it gonna be okay? Please, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u91	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I don't think it's three minutes, but two minutes if you're my last colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u92	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u93	I want to say the next thing. At last, authorities are trying to order the use of land in Crimea. We are all aware of the recent violations of land laws in Crimea, particularly on the southern coast of Crimea. Whole tracts of land by 10, 20, 100 hectares were unlawfully distributed to individual individuals. At the same time, the same people who need land are waiting ten or more years in line. Such injustices became possible because, for various reasons, the boundaries of cities and regions and the absence of land in general within the cities and cities remained inconsistent. Now, let's say there's this kind of work going on, and we have our first submission from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, namely the shift in the boundaries of Alushta. Those 110 hectares, which will be handed over to Alushta by decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will enable the issue of both its own development and the assignment of citizens to the land. I would like to welcome the offer of a previous colleague for deporting land, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to say that it is your proposal that gives us the opportunity not to violate and allocate authority between the city authorities regarding the land of the Supreme Council. And so I propose to accept with the additions offered to us here by the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, I'm asking Zaru Katusheva if you'd like to make a third point. Controlling the implementation of this decree will place special emphasis on the use of land included within the city of Alushta. I mean, it's the right thing to do. That's what I'm talking about. No notes? I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the boundaries of the city of Alushta of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Registration number 7762. Please vote. [[17:43:16]] For 314 I'll take the order. Thank you. Ludmila Kirichenko, microphone. You had a question procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u95	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich. I urge you to return to Bill 5043-3 on the privatization of the "Criminals". The situation in the hall was very tense, not all the deputies understood what the bill was about, especially since Gurov was taking it off the agenda. And I insist that this is a very serious issue today, not only for us, but also for all Ukrainians. Justice must have succeeded, however, in a hasty decision to privatize the enterprise in due course. In my view, it should remain State-owned, as the enterprise operates in a stable manner. If we took it last year, two billion people came in. And I think the MPs should take this bill seriously. And yet I urge you to think about it and leave the enterprise to state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There was a proposal regarding Bill 5043-3, which we were considering, the Supreme Council did not support. That's Rudzkowski, isn't it? Mikola Rudzkowski, microphone, please. But let's just keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u97	The official of this group did not pass four bills -- 5043-3, 6030, 6130-3 and 7272-2. If we could go back to them, vote again, announce what the MPs were voting on, for there was no hearing in the room, no one knew what we were voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to return. One minute, she already said, well, Gurov, cancel the vote, please. Change the vote. Gurov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, look closely at who is asking for a vote. I broke that law. "Criminal" is my baby, and I gave birth to it for 12 years and made it "Criminal" the way it exists. Now there are those who want to share, but it's fair to share. We've seen this before. Therefore, I believe that in the state in which Krivorostal is now located, let her go and remain. The team is doing great, and there are 500,000 productions in this place. I've broken the law, and now someone's in charge of my law. That's why I'm asking you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u100	Dear National Deputies! The authors of the law are Gurov, Semenyuk, Bastrig, Nadrag. If you all take it off, I'll take it off, if you take your signature off, that's one thing. So I'm voting for a motion to go back to the 5043-3 bill on Crivoristal. Please vote. [[17:47:00]] For 109 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communist faction - 0, "Ukraine" - 47, People's Party - 25, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 24, NPP - 4, "Ukraine" - 0, SDPU - 9, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, SPTU - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Factional 0". Yeah, 5043-10. I'm betting on the vote now to go through all of this. Who's in charge of going back to the 5043-10 bill? Now I'm going to announce what this is about. One minute, cancel the vote. I'm going to make an announcement. This is a bill introduced by Anatoly Kozlovski to amend the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. It's the Mikolai district, it's about a number of companies, it's about the radospas that are in the administration of the Minagroprom. I'm voting for the return to draft Law 5043-10. Please vote. [[17:48:34]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Next bill, 6130, right? 6130, please, this is a bill, I'll tell you what, dear colleagues. What? Well, please, with motive, we've already voted. You didn't say anything. Anatoly Kozlowski, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the honourable presiding officer, Vladimir Mikhailovich! This Law 5043-10, which he proposes: the exclusion of silkradgos from lists of public property objects. What are these people? People can't, colleges, grandparents, they can't privatize land, they can't privatize land, they can't spoil, they can't get government acts, they don't have jobs. There foreign people rent this land, and people can't eat it and there's nothing in it! I ask you to return to this question, and I must vote. More than 10,000 people are waiting for this law to happen. My dears, please get out of the way and vote. Come back to this, I beg of you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u102	Dear national deputies, you have listened to a fiery explanation. I put it to a vote: who, in order to go back to the draft Law 5043-10, please vote. [[17:50:20]] For 228 We're back. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the bill 5043-10. Please vote. [[17:50:47]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Next bill. Well, what can I do, dear colleagues?Oh, my God! Well, what can I do? I voted! What are you yelling at? Please don't scream. What's the next bill? Yes, next on the return to the consideration of Bill 6130. The author is national deputy Karmazin. It's about Turbot. I'm voting for a return to the bill. Please vote. [[17:51:56]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Now Bill 6130-3. The author is Semenjuk Valentina Petrovna. It's about the Turbot and the Odessa booty factory. I am voting for the return to this bill, 6130-3. Please vote. [[17:52:39]] For 208 The decision is not taken. What's the next bill? 6310-3. This is Stápan Ilkovich Cloud. No, no, it's a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. It's an open stock company called Bilshik. I'm betting on the vote on the return to the draft Law 6310-3. [[17:53:29]] For 114 Yeah, now Bill 7272-2. One minute, let me finish. It's a bill that says "Lugansk-Trafficking." I would like to vote on the return to the consideration of Bill 7272-2. [[on "Lugansk Telecommunications"]] [[17:54:09]] For 254 We're back to the debate. I'm willing to vote on the adoption of draft law 7272-2. Please vote. "Lugansk-trafficking". [[17:54:32]] For 252 Decision taken. A list of property rights that are not subject to privatization is included. We took it as a basis, dear colleagues. So we made a decision. All of it. Dear colleagues! Two factions: A party of regions and SDPU(o) called for a recess to be made. Please make a statement. Then we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u103	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I am now addressing the 15 million citizens who have made their choice, who have given certain preferences to the President of Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, who has formed his team. This team promised the rule of law and morals. Morals are that to this day these people are working together and earning wages. I want to read to make sure that everyone hears when the court has suspended the term of office and who has taken the money. Since June 3, Atroszczenko, June 15, Artemenko, May 11, Bondar, June 3, Oilynik, May 11, Stojko. These national deputies were paid, including on June 15, 2005. As of July 1, 2005, such national deputies of Ukraine were paid in court, including Baloga, Bondarczuk, Ivanov, Katerinczuk, who struggles with taxes, Nikolayenko, Pinsenic, Polishchuk, Stacks, Tarasyuk, Teryohin, Tsushko, and Shevchenko. Considering that the last one on the list is Vitaly Shevchenko, I would very much ask Andry Shevchenk, a journalist from this rostrum who started fighting the darknesses for transparency and for democracy. Andrew, I'm asking you to use your friendly relations with the press to publish this list. The salary is paid, but it's not paid by such national deputies, it's for you: Yellow. But numbered, Tuck, Boyko, Yehanurov, Žebrovsky. The salary shall be based on the working-time tables submitted to the Accounting, Accounting, Finance, Control Planning Department of the Head of the Committee’s Signatures, the Head of the Secretariat. Cases before the court: Steckov, Topoloov, Boyko, Tarasjuk, Katrinczuk, Shevchenko, Bondarczuk, Gurwitz, Morozov, Pavluk, Boyko Regarding our defender for the defense of Ukraine, Mr. Poshenko. Mr. Prashenko, you should know that the statement you are making to everyone you have written is not written on the Chairman of the Regulatory Committee, but on the Head of the Supreme Council. So Dustenko is a national deputy and he will be further away by the end of the holiday season. And there's another deputy, Boyko. A priest to whom he pleases. These may be the standards of the American Church, but they are absolutely not Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u104	Please come in, please. Two factions asked for a recess: the Ukrainian People's Party faction, "Our Ukraine" to make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u105	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party We've asked, indeed, for a break, but I would like to say that by listening to the previous speaker, we can say that there is a democracy in Ukraine. Because in your time, no one has owned such information and has been able to speak out anywhere. And democracy is just that the information is transparent and open. So I think the President is keeping his promises. And the second thing I wanted to ask. We still haven't made it under that symphony orchestra that's been playing really bad today, by the way. Communists, vote on some of the bills that were agreed upon in the joint working group. And I would ask, let's say, to go back to Bill 7586, there's no problem. And I think we can vote it out as many others as possible. Because the issue of Ukraine's entry into the WTO is a strategic issue for the entire Ukrainian state, and that's exactly how it needs to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u106	Thank you. Please, First Vice Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach is asking for his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u107	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, respected friends. Requesting support for the proposal to return to the vote of Bill 7181 on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine. [[on the customs tariff]] The bill is fully agreed, including an agrarian block, which clearly provides for civil protection of the internal market and equal competition. Request to support Bill 7181. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u108	Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to stress from the Committee on Finance and Banking that we have conducted some consultations with the MP factions and agreed on those positions that were in principle. This is a position for sausages and sausages, which is supposed to be 30 percent, but not less than 0.8 euros per kilogram. In the previous edition, it was 0.6 euros per kilogram. And meat cans also set import duty rates at 30 percent, but at least 0.8 pounds. So this is a group of 1601 and 1602 goods. In these positions there were the principles of observation in those factions that did not participate in the vote. In view of what is agreed upon, the committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, for God's sake. From the procedure, please sign in for three minutes. From the procedure of this proposal, three minutes, please sign in. Please. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear friends. The question is perfectly correct by the First Deputy Prime Minister. And from the committee's report, we see that we really need to get back to him. How can you reject all that someone doesn't like there today? For the most part, the room may have a different opinion. So let us find out by re-voting. And I think this bill will pass in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u112	Anatoly Domansky, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u113	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please give the floor to Petra Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u114	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u115	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I ask you very much to abide by the Rules. And if you have Vladimir Mikhailovich, please take a look, we've only been given 350 pages today. Has anyone read it or not? Did the government itself read it or not? And in this case, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please do not violate the Rules. We've already discussed these problems with you today. The Communist faction strongly denies a similar approach to the organization of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, calm down! Please! Please, calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! Take your seats. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is now under review. Sit down, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the preparation of human resources]] Please, have a seat! Everybody take your seats. Take your seats, please. Take your seats, please. Take your seats, please. Cafarsky. Please turn on Kafarski's microphone. Dear colleagues, Kafarsky, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u117	Kafarski on the rostrum. Turn the microphone on to the rostrum. Deputies! The committee will consider a law on higher education. There were 429 amendments based on parliamentary hearings held on May 13, 2004. Moreover, the legislation that was passed on to our deputies has been taken into account. We've taken it all into account, either partially or to a greater extent. There are a number of issues that concern the decisions of the Constitutional Court and we were unable to include them, but we believe that the law improves the work of the higher school, and we will introduce some adjustments at the level of the legal department and the lawyers and ask you to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u118	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to turn it off, please. Well, turn it off now, please! Well, we're looking at the law, that's all. Well, turn it off, please. Take your seats. The committee has considered proposals that have come from the National Deputies to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act and recommends that it be adopted as a law in the second reading and generally as a law. [[on the preparation of human resources]] This proposal will now be voted on. Please take your seats, make your decision. Please take your seats. Calm down. Today we've reviewed today's laws, we've spent our energy, we'll continue again tomorrow. Now, please prepare for the vote. Well, take your seats, well, there'll be nothing left. Please. Well, there's no reason for an incident. I created an incident, I get it. Well, take your seats. Please, that's it. Please. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. There is a motion for adoption in second reading and in general as a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 3323. [[on the preparation of human resources]] Please vote. Well, vote, respectable colleagues, normal law. Vote, please. [[18:08:43]] For 186 I'm asking you to sit down, calm down! I put it to a vote: The return to the bill, registration number 3323, is about higher education. Please vote. [[18:09:29]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, what's wrong with this bill? What, we're gonna go to the wall? Well, by factions, please. Please! Well, put your cards back on, please! "Our Ukraine" - 45, Communist - 56, "Ukraine" - 3, People's Party - 20, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 15, "Ukraine" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 3, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7. Dear colleagues, we will be working on a full procedure. The report was on this subject. Once again, I am voting on the return to draft Law 3323. Please vote. [[18:10:42]] For the 220. Please, Kafarsky then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u119	Deputies! Two factions took out cards today, and they don't vote. I think we need to move to tomorrow and go through the full procedure of second reading after the amendments that have been made and adopted this law. The school year ends. In September, this law should be put on the table for the rectors of higher education institutions, and they should act. Please decide or vote again and we will now work by law, or we will move to tomorrow, because these political battalions are now rejecting the law that the higher school needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, let's consider this bill. Well, calm down, please, I'm just asking. Well, let's take a look at this bill. What's the reason? This is a government bill that is needed today for the education system. I am voting for the return to Bill 3323. And then we'll go to the repairs. Please let me vote. [[18:12:42]] For 268. Decision taken. We're back. Please, what features will then continue to be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that this law has a number of features regarding the membership of the Bologna Process. First of all, we've taken into account the proposals made by our deputies, who have passed laws. This is Volinca, Tanyuka, Poliita, Bičkova, Stanecko, Bondarenka, Yavorowski, Edina, Turchinova, Sitnika, Rybaruka, Gavriša, Hapokka, Gladia, Hubsky, Kravchenka, Matvienka, Oneichuk, Homutinika, Sharova, Yushchenka, Kirichenko. But in these laws, when they were passed, there were at times contradictions that were essentially not lawful. Thus we took an objective position and offered you the law for second reading. What do I want to say? That the law essentially strengthens the self - government of higher education institutions. And when it comes to one faction now that we're eliminating the DAC, that's not true. We give national universities the right to assign the title of professor and associate, and this, in fact, is a serious practice, it doesn't take anything from DAQ. What kind of corruption? Next. We introduce student self-governance, we expand. The law provides that we introduce students up to 10 percent into university scientists, collective university self-governance bodies, set a clear limit and those hours that are supposed to be in teaching and teaching today. If any amendments are made, let us put to the vote in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u122	Dear colleagues! Who insists on their amendments? Valentine's Dentist on repairs? Please, the microphone. What is the correction? Please state the correct number. Microphone, please, Valentina Zubova, Faction BUTT, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u123	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you very much. The fact is that we had a very serious discussion on this issue at the faction today. The law is not bad in itself. But this is what Mr. Kafarsky called the first point when a rectorate has the right to assign a scientific title is the weakest place. There will be terrible corruption. And so today, the professor's name, the associate, was devaluation. And if we give the chancellor the scientific council the right to assign a scientific title, then we'll just throw all the country's branches into the sea of corruption. You can't do that. If that is not the case, we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u124	There is a position that the National Universities, based on the positions developed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Science and Education, define the framework, the position: who can be an associate or a professor or cannot be. If a person falls under these positions, why are there other structures that should be reviewed at the level of the Ministry of Education? But if the Hall believes that the National VUZ does not need to grant such a right, please vote, take, vote for the Law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u125	Please, Mikola Onichuk, please. By the way, only, Honorable Fellows, as amended, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u126	Thank you. Dear reporter, the "Industrials, Entrepreneurs" faction was unable to support the vote for one reason and I would like to ask you to clarify this is very important for the hall. Is that really the law? suggests lifting restrictions on the percentage of students admitted to higher education on a paid basis, which is now enshrined in article 27, section 3, of the Ukrainian Law. It's about that. That if we cancel this limit, education will become inaccessible, higher education for students from rural families and so on. Please make this clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u127	So the point is that we're asking the question of increasing the national set to 50%. But in parallel, we continued the set on a commercial or contractual basis until 2009. Thus, in the process of the Government’s further work on the increase of the government’s set-up, the partial contract will be reduced. But this process is due to end in 2009. This situation does not affect the number of students today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u128	Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u129	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, Faction of the People's Party. You know, the key positions of the bill, which is now reported by Comrade Kafarsky, are absolutely correct. Instead, I want to agree with my neighbors here in the really first position. Dear Vladimir Ivanovich, you know very well that we have devaluations today both of our assistants and professors and so on. You know what the devaluation is about the national VUs. If we were talking about a dozen, really, classical VUZs that we all know about, which have a great history, there are no questions. But now the national VUZ is in the district centers, almost not the district centers. I suggest that we accept your position and remove this position, that national unions themselves may be the ultimate institutions for the formation of the professors and the associate corps. And then the bill will be supported by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, come on, come on. We're a committee of advice, and we're taking down part two of article 26, which is expanding autonomously. in this matter, and we vote without this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u131	What further warnings are there about amendments that do not make you. The committee proposes to withdraw the amendment that gives nationals the right to make final decisions on scientific names, right? In view of this, I am voting for acceptance in the second. Take down the vote. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have made 35 amendments to this law. Some of them are not in the table. But the principle is, for example, in the 28th amendment of article 84, that's the 62nd sheet. Licences for educational activities and certificates for accreditation of the direction of specialty and higher education institutions may be revoked in accordance with the law. That's what I'm suggesting. And now it's written "according to the law." And the laws are the acts of Kabmin, and so on. Let's do everything in accordance with the law. This was also accepted in the first reading. So if the first reading was so accepted, then you have to put the amendment not my amendment, but the proposal of the 83rd government to which these changes were made. And there's also a violation of the Constitution, article 53, where there's just going to be a reduction in the number of students who are accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u133	Please, 84th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u134	I mean, the 84th amendment, the question is about licensing. We're moving to specialty licensing and specialty accreditation. Thus, this amendment is made in the preceding article, and it essentially covers up what you say. If you want her to stay the way she is right now, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u135	Do you agree or not? So we put it to a vote, or do you agree, the 84th amendment. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 84th Yuri Karmazin, page 62. Please, microphone, you've argued your amendment, I'm putting it to a vote, Yuri Anatolyovich. What's wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u136	Yuri Carmazin. The point is, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that on the first reading you and I accepted that this is established by law, which is us with you, the Supreme Council. Then in the first reading, I repeat, then there was an amendment. I am now making an amendment to the amendment that it is wrong to write "legislature" and thus restrict the authorization of the Supreme Council. You've understood the course of my mind. It is not Carmazin, therefore, that is, the amendment of the 83rd government. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you know that very well. And the reporter knows. I don't understand why everything is happening. I'd like you to do it according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u137	Then I ask you in the first part of the fourth part of article 28 instead of the word "legislature" to leave the word "law" to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatolyevich is right. Despite the fact that the amendment is taken into account by the 83rd Cabinet of Ministers, it may, at the request of the People's Deputies, vote in order to obtain confirmation. That's why I'm voting for an amendment to the 83rd Cabinet of Ministers. [[18:23:03]] For-55 Amendment 83 is not supported. Please, come on. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you have any warnings? Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u139	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like not to make a lot of amendments right now, to get the principle of an answer, because once again, I have 35. I want the answer: Part four of article 23, it says delete. This had to be rejected, because this would lead to a reduction in the total number of students admitted to the first course of the State, which is a violation of part two and part three of the Constitution, where it is written that the State ensures the accessibility and freeness of preschool, full general, secondary, vocational and technical, higher education in public and municipal educational institutions, the development of preschool, full general, secondary, secondary, vocational, higher and post-graduate education of various forms of education, the granting of State scholarships and benefits to students and students. I want to hear the answer now, and it says in the Constitution that citizens have the right free of charge to receive higher education in public, municipal institutions on a competitive basis. That's what I think it's like.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u140	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u141	What kind of amendment do you mean? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Article 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u142	Yes. So in higher education institutions of state and municipal ownership, the number of students admitted to the first course of public education should be at least 51 percent of the total number of students admitted to the first grade. This is the position of the government and the president. But we have recorded that part of article 23, part four, should be supplemented by such a statement: Students who study on government orders include students who study at the expense of state and municipal enterprises. And what we're further asking is that this transition to 51 on a government-ordered basis should continue until 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u143	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, it's very technical. Okay, I want to. Let's agree with National Deputy Carmazin and just in the form that will be given in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u145	Dear colleagues! I'm going to Kafarsky and I'm going to the committee: you can see the situation is a little bit different. Let's still try to vote on the second reading to get the committee to take a closer look at the amendments they made. What's more, you see, the bill by number three starts. So it's a government that knows him. And the committee's request is to be processed expeditiously. If we don't make it this plenary week, let's make a commitment, first of all, to the committee that we're starting the eighth session, we're looking at this issue. For us to accept this bill peacefully in September. No objections to the committee? Is it? Please, then I'll take the vote as we agreed. I'm voting on the adoption of the law as a whole as a law. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u146	As a matter of fact. [[18:28:03]] For-103 I am voting on the proposal to re-read the bill. Please vote. To the others again. [[18:28:28]] For 294 Decision taken. Thank you. And I'm asking the committee quickly, let's, to the extent we're ready, we'll be watching right away. Let the committee work. Dear colleagues, we agreed to listen to the Commissioner’s annual report at 6:30 p.m. What, what? Ratifications? Dear colleagues, be careful! If you don't mind, let's take a look at -- there are three ratification bills here -- and then we'll give Nina Ivanovni the word. So please, once again, don't pick up. We're not going back to any of the bills we haven't considered today. These are the words of the Head of the Supreme Council, he has given them, he will keep his promises. They can do anything. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the Transfer of Convicted Persons is being complied with. Registration number 0267. Is there a question for Roman Mikhailovich, Minister? Any questions? None. Is there a question for the profile committee? You don't? Then I am voting on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the transfer of convicted persons, registration number 0267. Please vote. [[18:30:35]] For 298 Thank you. Law accepted, treaty ratified. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the Extradition of Offenders is being complied with. Registration number 0269 is also reported by Roman Mikhailovich. Is there a question for him? Do you understand? Can I put it to a vote? I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the Extradition of Offenders. [[Registration number 0269]] Please vote. We're voting friendlyly. [[18:31:30]] For 308. Contract accepted. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their member States on the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic to the UPS and the amendment to the UPS is being complied with. Reporter: First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Ogrizko Vladimir Stanislavovich. I don't see anyone from. Wait, please. Yes, Zarubinsky Oleg. I can't see either. Yes, wait, please. Now. Turn on the Domansky microphone. Then Ratushni. Yes, Oleg. Domansky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear Roman Mikhailovich, it is unusual for us that the Minister of Justice of this candidate is not a doctor of legal sciences to report. ..today's decision on you. A candidate of science to make you. Legal so we can believe they're all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, we listen to a very different question on which the Minister of Justice will not report. Please, Zarubinsky Oleg. What are some questions? Sign up for Zarubinsky. No questions? Then please. Oleg! Please, the committee's opinion. Literally half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u149	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. So, respectable colleagues. On 29 April 2004, Ukraine was apparently said to have signed a protocol in Dublin to accede to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Communities and their member states of the new EU member states, which extended the operation of the Agreement to the enlarged European Union. The Protocol was specifically signed with a view to joining the new EU member states in a partnership and cooperation agreement between Ukraine and European societies and their member states. Dear colleagues! The acquisition of a protocol of validity will mean the completion of the review of Ukraine's contractual and legal regime with ten EU Member States. The point is that the unilateral denunciation by the new EU member states of a number of bilateral agreements with Ukraine, first and foremost, in the commercial and economic sphere has led to the replacement of the economic regimes established by these agreements into a single regime within the framework of the UPS, namely the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. And in most cases, the contractual nature of these changes was negligible, since the majority of bilateral agreements established the most favourable regime, which is also foreseen by the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. It should also be noted that the Protocol amends the provisions of the UPS, and they are due to the fact that some EU documents have become obsolete today. This applies, in particular, to the Agreement establishing a European Coal and Steel Society. You know that. In addition, a contractual basis for European energy paper has changed. Thus, changes to the treaty provide for an appropriate correction of references to these international organizations in the text of the UPS. Therefore, the Committee on European Integration considers it appropriate to ratify the specified protocol. And this decision of the committee, by the way, is fully in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of our Parliament, as well as the decisions of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs and the issues of the fuel and energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security. Please be supportive. There are absolutely no underwater stones here, you can be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u150	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Ratification Act of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and many States, registration number 0254. Please vote. [[18:36:16]] For 252 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I continue to meet for 15 minutes for 15 minutes to fulfill our obligation to a human rights officer today and to listen to a human rights report. Please, Nina Ivanovna Karpachov. We'll give her 30 minutes to report, 15 answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u151	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, representatives of the government, the judiciary, representatives of the media, dear fellow countrymen, and the human rights institution in Ukraine have been operating for more than seven years. And the appearance of this long - awaited constitutional body was preceded by many significant events in the field of human rights. One of them is the creation of Helsinki's right-wing movement, which is worth recalling today. Less than a month left before the thirtieth anniversary of the signing in Helsinki’s capital of the Helsinki Final Act of a Security and Cooperation Council in Europe. I would like to say that the Ukrainian defenders had already put their bright page in the right-wing movement. Because they then began a legal battle against human rights violations, demanding that the State recognize these rights. I would like to point out today in our very, very troubled society that it was then that the defenders of Ukraine gave us an example to our fellow countrymen today that the high culture and morals in this movement were once side by side, Ukrainians, Russians, Jews, believers of various religions, atheists, nationalists, communists, social Democrats and anarchists. They never announced each other's enemies. Because everyone equally needed freedom, and Ukraine’s national independence was a guarantee of such freedom. It was the Ukrainian defenders who were able to do the impossible to combine the struggle for human rights with the struggle for Ukraine's independence. I hope that the entire Ukrainian society deserves to be celebrated at the national level, I emphasize the anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian Group of Promoting the Implementation of the Helsinki Treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now given the annual report of the Commissioner for Human Rights on the state of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. The 525 pages show the results of a comprehensive study of the state of civil, political, social, cultural and personal rights in line with international standards. I would like to say that this report first examined the state of human rights in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, as well as the rights of refugees. Each chapter of this report contains conclusions and recommendations aimed at improving the status of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. In preparing this report, I wanted to draw first attention to the problems of a simple person, whose solution should be focused on the efforts of all authorities and local self - government. The mandate of the Commissioner for Human Rights was based on an appeal to authorized citizens of Ukraine, stateless persons, foreigners, refugees. Over 620,000 people have benefited from the constitutional right of reference in previous years. And the number of these references is increasing year after year. They usually turn to the Commissioner for Human Rights with the last hope after the fact that Ukrainian citizens' claims had already been considered by the authorities, they were accused in administrative or judicial order, but human rights violations had not been removed. By the way, I want to point out that this period to the Human Rights Commissioner was addressed by the 1950 National Deputies, this is actually the four vocations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I have the honour to communicate with the honourable MPs every day and to protect the rights of voters of the national MPs with you. Ladies and gentlemen, today, together with the report, you are given a unique book. It was launched by the Authorized Three-Language Ukrainian, Russian, English, this is the concluding observations and recommendations of the United Nations Conventional Organs on Ukraine's report on respect for human rights and freedoms. I mean, Ukraine is a party to all six major international human rights treaties. So far, however, no attempt has been made in our country to inform the Ukrainian community widely of the United Nations’ position on Ukraine’s report to the convention authorities. So I hope that any MP who has carefully turned at least the pages of this book today, I think, will motivate us all to act together in concrete ways just to improve the state of human rights and freedoms in accordance with world standards. Honourable National MPs, in accordance with article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the primary duty of the State is to ensure human rights and freedoms. However, the chief violator of human rights and freedoms, according to the Authorized One, is the State itself. I am deeply convinced that human rights must be higher than the rights of the State. And so I would like to say that today the main source of human rights violations was and unfortunately, while poverty remains, the level of which is still high despite economic growth. Nearly a million of our citizens are unemployed today, and so much work under part - time employment. Even an increase from July 1st, the minimum wage, as we know, up to 310 dollars, is less than 70 percent of the living minimum, which is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, there is an increase in debt on wages, which is now more than 1 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. That's right. Unemployment in rural areas is now more than double the city’s figure. And 42 percent of all the poor in Ukraine are primarily rural. You and I know that from five to seven million of our fellow countrymen today are seeking a better destiny outside Ukraine. This was discussed in detail in a special report by the Commissioner for Human Rights, who I presented at the Supreme Council in April 2003. I'd like to say good-bye today. In September of last year, what we've been trying to do with you for many years has happened -- eventually, the pensioners have started to get payments that were not below the standard of living. And this year the new government, along with Parliament, has significantly increased social assistance for disabled people, families, war veterans, and workers. Yes, indeed, people have for a time experienced an improvement in their material situation, but this positive is unfortunately undermined by the rise in prices for goods and services. Therefore, I will point out that no considerations of economic or political relevance, national security, can justify human rights violations. We are only weakening our stand in the fight against poverty and other brutal human rights violations by rejecting the same human rights as our fellow countrymen. According to the Human Rights Commissioner, the assessment of poverty should be based primarily on constitutional standards regarding the right of everyone to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family, including adequate nutrition, clothing, housing, medical care, education, and legal aid, for all of which people have to pay specifically for. At least 70 percent of the population can be attributed to the poor category in Ukraine. I cannot help but point out today that in order to overcome poverty as an integral part of it, it is necessary to consider the return of people with undervalued employment savings. I recall that, on 30 June 2000, the Constitutional Court recognised the savings of citizens as their property by placing a dot in disputes over the State's responsibility for violating the rights of investors. People began to return their money as a piece of block bread. But at the legislative level, it is also necessary to define additional mechanisms and sources of return for undervalued savings, including, according to the authorized person, this can be done by involving the financial resources of enterprises that have received investments, and yet they are already receiving income from precisely these savings. I, by the way, filed with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in April of last year. I cannot help but say today that poverty has given birth in Ukraine. Thank you very much, thank you. . gave rise to a deep demographic crisis. Over the past 13 years, the country’s population has declined by 5 million, approaching losses during World War II and should be seen as a real threat to our country’s national security. As a result of poverty in the structure of working age mortality, infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and HIV-AIDS are beginning to dominate. Every year, about 70,000 people die in Ukraine, too, from accidents -- killings and suicides. You know, there's just been a self-inflicted man in Herson who, in protest against the court's decisions, has taken this desperate step. So I would like to point out that in the last year, 11 citizens of our nation made this move and went out of their lives voluntarily. But the same is true of drinking. Sadly, a person is forced to seek a way out of chronic poverty, social isolation, and human loneliness. During these days, three years have passed since the terrible tragedy of the Sknelly Airfield, which has shocked the entire country and the whole world. In a report commissioned by Jehovah’s Witnesses, a detailed analysis of the cause of this bloody tragedy, from the first hours of my life in Lviv, visited a hospital, a city morgue, participated in the work of the State Commission, and tried to help with the burial of the dead, along with my colleagues. And I still have that question under control. But what I do want to point out is, is it not cynicism, when the consequences of such a tragedy cause people to be mutilated by people with disabilities as a result of a general illness? This is the question that I discussed during my meeting with the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, and directed him to the submission of the Commissioner for Human Rights. I hope that this issue will be resolved positively by the government. I would like to say that more attention from the State is needed, of course, by disabled people. Their right to social integration and participation in social life are still far from international standards and human needs. Sadly, only one of the four disabled people of working age is employed today. Society should be extremely considerate of this category of citizens and consider its sacred duty to solve their problems without a burden. Today I have to pay attention to both the government and the parliament, and I have asked these two structures today to protect miners' rights to adequate regression payments and compensation for health loss, as the second month in a row is the hungering of the Barakov mining mines in Lugansk. On the other hand, I would like to point out that in Ukraine the constitutional rights of a child continue to be violated in full - time childhood, family environment, and upbringing. The number of carefree and homeless children in the country is nearly 200,000, more than 12,000 school - age children are not partying each year, and half a million are involved in child labor. In the last five years, 404 children under the age of 15 have committed suicide. Every year, 100 families lose their children because of the fire. By helping to save our little Ukrainian heroine along with all the Ukrainian people, Nastya Ovcar, I have once again found that without the introduction of higher social standards in the country, and, above all, overcoming poverty, securing a job and a wage worthy of, by the way, parents' rights to a decent life and security are not enough to speak about. Today, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the mothers and parents and the public organizations. The people and leadership of the Republic of Cuba for their five-year self-sufficient assistance in the treatment and recovery of 20,000 children affected by Chernobyl, mostly orphans, from low-income families. I have supported as a Human Rights Commissioner and will continue to support the continuation of this unique program. Dear National Deputies! In the spotlight of my report, the main violator, by the way, of all branches of power, is the judicial branch of power, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a third of the appeals that the Commissioner receives from human rights concern a violation of citizens' rights to a fair trial. First of all, once again, because of the poverty of the vast majority of people, our citizens, who cannot pay the State's tax and use the services of a lawyer, are being violated by the constitutional rights of citizens and the norms of the European Convention. Second, it's going to take a lot of time to look at rights. Every 10 criminal cases and every 5 civilians are dealt with because of a violation of the terms. The Commissioner's audit has established that only in the Plain City Court more than 100 criminal cases are pending -- and just think about it -- with a term of three to ten years, our citizens are awaiting a hearing in this court of law. This is why the Human Rights Commissioner was brought before the Head of the Qualificational Commission of Judges of the District of Žitomir on the violation of the disciplinary introduction concerning the head of the Eunice City Court, Peter Denisuk, and 10 other judges of this court because of their gross violation of the rules of law and the oaths of the judge. The Commissioner believes that it is necessary to eliminate the institution of additional investigation, which gives rise to gravity and violates the principle of the process’s competitiveness and presumption of innocence. In fact, the lack of principle, courage, and even professionalism of judges result in a meagre number of trial sentences and, on the contrary, a large number of annulments and changed court decisions. This was demonstrated by the decision of the Ukrainian Femid of the fate of 2 Ukrainian sailors who were subjected to inhuman trials at Abu Ghraib prison. In August 2003, members of the crew of the Navstar-1, who had been detained in Iraq, approached the Commissioner for Satellite Communications. Thanks to the measures taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in conjunction with the authorized 19 crew members were released from custody, but against the Captain of the 68-year-old Mikola Mazurenko and Senior Assistant John Soschenko, a criminal case was dismissed and arrested. Today, two of our citizens were in four concentration camps, three prisons, including the famous Abu Ghraib prison, where terrible tortures were inflicted on them for 10 months. Yes, there were no exceptions for Ukrainians there, as they say. In June last year, in the order of extradition, they were shipped to Ukraine. The judge of the Court of Appeal in Kiev, Valentina Laskovska, left them with a sentence of up to seven years ’ imprisonment. And only the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, where I had to participate directly, changed the approval of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, and the Ukrainian sailors were released from prison. I want to say today that our courts are actually using a precautionary measure of arrest. Yes, today they were assigned this function by the prosecutor’s office. However, local courts are satisfied with almost 90 percent of such claims, which are made directly by investigators. In my opinion, formalism, haste in the use of arrests, and sometimes political prejudice, not to mention the decision to order, all of this leads to baseless deprivation of liberty, brutal disregard of the right to freedom and personal integrity of man. Because of the absence of a special law that has not yet been passed in the country, the problem of millions of our citizens has not been solved. The point is that they are not protected at the legal level of the right of victims of these crimes to compensate for their harm. Over the past 10 years alone, more than 300,000 of our fellow countrymen have suffered unreparable damages. So I think we need to adopt such a law as soon as possible for the Supreme Council. However, Ukraine has begun to compensate for the damage caused by the illegal activities of law enforcement agencies, the prosecution and the court. This contributed, by the way, to the submission of the Commissioner in January 2002 to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. This was an essential step that people have been waiting for since the year 95, that is, since the Law was passed. I want to give you an example. In 2003, 10 million dollars were paid to these victims. However, half of this amount was paid according to a decision made by the courts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, including over 4 million, for the decision of the Eupatoria City Court. The judge of this court is John Bezvoljak, whose decisions on several civil cases have been duplicated, regrettably, by the Crimea Court of Appeal received by the plaintiffs through the State Department, which is said to be very and very fast. And in just one fact, consider this, one person who has been in custody for over a year has received a million 800,000. And it's all been highlighted. I've told you this amount, for all Ukrainian citizens. I want to say that, of course, I have turned to the Attorney General with a motion to be violated by him himself, the prosecutor of the matter before the High Council of Justice for bringing this judge to justice. Remember the case of 26-year-old Yuri Mazola, in which I was speaking directly at the Frankiv District Court of Lviv. When, according to the ruling of this court, disabled parents were compensated to two parents of the two structures of 130 thousand moral damage after the innocent person was tortured in the LVU insulator. Yes, today, as a result of increasing citizens' appeals to the court, and expanding the jurisdiction of the courts, the real power is increasingly concentrated in the court branch. Given the legal and actual uncontrolledness of the judges, the only source of authority -- the people -- it's becoming dangerous. In order to prevent corruption, bribery, order solutions, I think, first of all, we need to set up a collegiate hearing in local and other courts. Second of all, the authority believes and I have to say it today. That the permanent appointment of judges should finally be changed. This question was included, you know, in the package of documents, thank you for your support, in the packets of documents during the political reform vote. I don't know what you were missing then, but you had to make a bold and courageous decision. I am absolutely convinced that judges should be elected by the people for a specific term. Third. The appointment of judges should take place on a competitive basis that will contribute to a more qualitative and objective selection of personnel. By the way, I made such an offer to the members of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, who unanimously supported it at a meeting in June 2005. And now, as of September of this year, every candidate for office, starting with the Supreme Court judges, will be appointed only on a competitive basis. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but say today that in Ukraine there has never been an end to the beating, robbery, intimidation, arrest and persecution of media journalists. I recently spoke from this rostrum. In 2004, 13 journalists were attacked and four were arrested. But today I can't help but draw your attention to the story that I've already drawn attention to from this rostrum, this is the story of the editor-in-chief of the newspaper "The Eupatoria Sunday" Vladimir Lutiev, the disabled group III, who has declared hunger these days in the isolation cells of the temporary holding of the city of Sevastopol, by the way, in the most terrible isolation of temporary detention in Ukraine. For several years now, there has been an ineffectual lawsuit in this journalist’s case, which you remember began with the dirty use of the Crimean ring of the central media, showing on television that this man’s murder was still on trial with Lutiev. On June 30, the Sevastopol Court of Appeal decided to arrest a journalist two years after the trial began. In doing so, the court noted that the court’s decision regarding the arrest, note, was not admissible. I mean, as far as journalists are concerned, arrest decisions can't even be prosecuted. Whatever procedural standards this judge is using, this is actually a brutal violation of the right of a person to be charged with an acquittal of a court. Hence, today the Authorized One firmly asserts judicial bias and demands that the precautionary measure of journalist Luteyev be changed immediately. You know that one of the priorities of my activity is the practice of using unauthorized methods of investigation and especially torture. As evidenced by the monitoring of the mandate authorized over the last two years, unfortunately, there is no, let's say, tendency to decrease. And so I want to say that there is still no independent body to investigate complaints against the police. Nearly 97 percent, by the way, have confirmed in a survey of managers who have been trained at the National Academy of Internal Affairs of Ukraine that torture is common or occasionally used in Ukraine, 97 percent of the police have confirmed it. I will not be intimidated by the examples that are found in this account and in my oral presentation. I would like to say that the expectations for the elimination of physical torture in the militia still give rise to changes in 2005 to article 127 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code of torture, which defines the person responsible for the crime and significantly increases the penalties of police personnel from 10 years to 15 years of imprisonment or imprisonment. I would like to say that, at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, this was the first time, by the way, that the staff of the Secretariat of the Commissioner for Human Rights and of the staff of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine had started to check the conditions of keeping our citizens in places of disqualification. It has already been discovered that the rights of our citizens to a three-hour detention in our holding rooms are being violated, which in 808 wards are not being held, half of these 808 raid units do not feed our citizens despite a few petitions authorized, by which you, by the way, national MPs and government, have allocated direct funds. I would like to say that the conditions of these ITTs, although there are positive changes, are still in the report. But I want to draw your attention to the problems. So far, the conditions in these ICTs and detention rooms are intolerable, in fact they are the conditions of the Middle Ages, and they can be considered torture today. And because of these ongoing mass arrests and arrests, they have to go through over a million of our citizens each year. And so, literally these days, I have submitted to the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, for the purpose of joining Ukraine in an optional protocol to the UN Convention against Torture. I believe that this will allow us to create the necessary area of effective international and national legal field with the aim of preventing torture and to strengthen control under conditions of detention of persons deprived of their liberty from right now both parliamentary and rights-based and non-governmental commissions and mobile groups that are created for so-called unwarranted visits. I would like to say that the results of the Commissioner's monitoring show that despite the changes that are taking place in the penitentiary system with which we support, I would say, the most constructive relationship so far is very and very unsatisfactory. I would say that in Ukraine, I said today, there are 159 thousand in Ukraine. The holding area is nearly 190,000. Prisoners, or overcrowding, account for 20 percent. And so it seems to me that in order to improve this situation, there could be an exemption from punishment for crimes that do not pose a major threat to society, first of all up to three years. The problem of tuberculosis continues to remain in our reformed colonies. Six and a half thousand died in the last 10 years. Prisoners. I believe that our courts need to apply more carefully Article 408 of the Criminal Procedure Code, because the review of the Human Rights Commissioner confirmed that it was because of the unsatisfactory court review of the material relating to severely ill people who are behind bars in the penitentiary institutions, particularly in the Herson and Donetsk oblasts, that 454 convicted persons who had severe imprisonment and had the right to be released from prison were found to be in only 40 percent of the cases that the court went to meet these people. And of those who were refused, 1 in 3 died. Therefore, the Authorized One considers the practice of using penitentiary facilities as torture, as well as the use of special assignment units. You will read about this in detail in my report. I would like to say, perhaps, to the conclusion that, speaking in this room a month ago, I emphasized that I, as the Commissioner, have received a lot of references in terms of discharges, persecutions and harassment for the political motives of doctors, teachers, civil servants, journalists. People are accused of voting in elections for another candidate, so they have to resign. In the first half of this year alone, 1,243 persons called upon me to protect their rights to freedom from political beliefs. Last year, by the way, last year, I met with the Ukrainian National Deputy, then the leader of the opposition, Victor Yushchenk, with the then President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, for political persecution and forcing him to release the employees of the city's budget institutions after the election of the city's head. Then I defined those actions as political liberation. But today we see, and so do representatives of the new authorities. In fact, there is the fate of the chief physician of the Kobeljak district of Poltava district, a respected doctor of Ukraine with a 30-year internship of John Suprunenko, the chief physician of the Trostiansky district hospital of Ludmila Crnovecki. In Kirovograd, the appeal that came to the authorized officer was checked by going to the place. It has been found that the employees of UBZ used physical and psychological violence in order to obtain evidence of violations of electoral legislation. I sent the appropriate submission directly to the Attorney General of Ukraine, myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u152	Yes, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u153	I would like to say that the investigation into criminal cases involving the electoral process is not limited to Kirovgrad, Winnitzkin, Suma, Žitomir, Donetsk, Crimea, and investigations are being carried out into the personnel of the units that were just created to fight armed crime groups. It is logical, therefore, for an authorized human rights officer to ask questions about the relevance of the continued existence of AIDS in Ukraine in general. does not perform functions other than its own. And that, by the way, is also a violation of the professional honor and dignity of the entire U.S.S.S. system of Ukraine. I would like to say that the old power, the old authority, developed a mechanism to remove legally elected city heads, as was the case in the Martyr. But today is a specific example, today. The Commissioner was contacted by members of the Corostene City Council and 1,490 of the city’s inhabitants with a request to protect the head of the Moscow City Council from political persecution. And now the public of the city has informed representatives of the Commissioner who have come out directly to check this statement, that now the WHO is exerting physical and psychological pressure on them, blocking their work, the city council, to get demonstrations that would compromise the city's head. And this time I again filed with the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. I can't help but mention today the election of the last days, the election of the days that took place in Konotap. This was well known when your colleague, the Ukrainian national deputy, is said to have been elected mayor of the city twice, but she has been harassed, humiliated by human dignity. And you can't ignore that. And we need the national electorate here to show their solidarity as well. I'd like to point out to you that I consider as authorized by human rights, that the brutal violation of human rights is the challenge of questioning through the media, the publication of "black lists," and in fact that goes to the scene of the illustration. We don't know who they're made of. Without trial and investigation, they publicly accuse people of persecuting them. By the way, the Attorney General's Office has yet to take decisive action. To prevent such incidents, I support the need to adopt laws aimed at prohibiting persecution or restricting human rights and freedoms to its political views and beliefs. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for giving me the opportunity, at least, to speak in a schematic manner today to present to the Supreme Council this serious, ground-based monitoring, and this monitoring is directed not only to the people's advocates, not only to the members of the government, to the President of Ukraine, to all senior officials, to the judges, but, above all, to our citizens. They need to know that there is a desire, a chance, and the courage to unite their collective efforts so that a simple person may still feel more secure year after year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u154	Thank you. Yes, we have 12 minutes to ask. Please sign up. Yes, please, Didenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u155	Didenko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Hennadovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u156	Here's Gennady Josephovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u157	Nina Ivanovna, you made a wonderful report and presented it, and on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank you for your work. [[There are many members of the Human Rights Committee present]] I agree that there is a particularly important thesis on judges, and I would like to point out with regret that Ukraine now has 8 seats in the world in the number of people sentenced to 100,000. 8th place. We could be members of the big eight already on this. But that's a question for you. Do you, as Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, observe positive developments after the Orange Revolution, after the election of the new President, after the arrival of the democratic forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u158	Thank you, Your Honor Hennaday Josephovich, for asking. I want to say that really between the Human Rights Commissioner's structure and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Human Rights and the national minorities and the inter-national relations, there was a very fruitful relationship to cooperation. This is the first time. And second of all, I'd like to say. You know, for the Human Rights Commissioner, in large numbers, I don't see any motions that would indicate that these steps have been taken in the field of human rights. There are very fine stated principles. There are very good intentions of power. And I like that the President of Ukraine at least communicates in contrast with President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma with the Commissioner for Human Rights, which at least inspires me that if the first person today started at least making visits from visits to prisons, other serious institutions, this would certainly be an example for other officials, which is what should be done. But I would like to say, Gennady Josephovich, that despite the President and the government's declared new course, again today we see that mass and systemic violations of human rights continue to take place in our country. Even more so, after the election of the President of Ukraine, only references to the Commissioner for Human Rights have increased sixfold, first of all, regarding the violation of political rights. And I can't help but notice these very specific data. So it seems to me that the new authorities should return from declarations to the specific implementation of those programs that were just announced on all the venues: and on the central stage during the orange revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u159	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u160	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. The great Nina Ivanovna! I am in love with you both with the United Nations Human Rights Council and with the woman. I appreciate your work and, above all, those trends that indicate that your influence on the protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine has increased. And tell me, please, that's the question you've been dealing with. We have a lot of honest, decent, just people in court who know their own business. But many who ignore laws that are independent of law, independent of the people, independent of their conscience. You said you had to change the system. Should we return to the election of judges in places for the entire population to feel their responsibility to the people?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u161	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. It was so clear that you were preparing to give me a certificate of love, as they say. This is the first time I've ever witnessed to me in the Supreme Council in love, and that's why you probably didn't hear me holding the same position as you. Ukrainian judges are to be elected by the people of Ukraine for a specific term. I emphasized this during my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u162	Please, Leovin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u163	Anatoly Levin's People's Party. Nina Ivanovna, in your report you called the fundamental human rights violator in Ukraine power. Could you name at least a few names of authorities that, so to speak, appear on basic, resonant issues of human rights violations in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u164	You see, this 525-page report, it's, I think, bleaching these examples, with specific names. And the main thing is that these are not just examples, but there's a fundamental monitoring of the authorized inspection, the submission of the authorized and direct participation of my own and my small team. And I want to say that in our country, that's it. I'm sorry, I mean, they're still starting to react to acts of response by a human rights officer. This was in fact not in the first year of our institution. Today, in fact, any submission at any level, be it the President, Prime Minister of Ukraine. By the way, Julia Volodymyrna recently wrote down my application as an urgent and literal one when I read such a, say, resolution: the main question is that such assignments be carried out. And I think you'll find a lot of answers to your question here. I just want to save time. Yes, these names are called, they're called openly, publicly, honestly and courageously.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u165	Yes, Nina Ivanovna, you intrigued Anatoly Ivanovich, he's 525 pages today at night. Please, Melniczuk Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u166	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Nina Ivanovna, I have had a few personal references to you and I want to confirm that you have a conscientious attitude towards addressing the appeals of Ukrainian national deputies. But here's what I'd like to say. How would you react to such facts as how you would have been called, for example, from the Cherniewsky region, and say that there are some officials of the district government who have introduced such a practice: call themselves, talk to themselves, or talk to the chief doctor, as shown by the Chernobyl Cardiospancer, and tell him: write a statement, not write, we'll find you how to do it. Or at the airport, let's say the airport is attractive. They call the manager and say, "Write your application, and we'll make it for you." How would you react as a human rights defender, how would you respond to these facts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u167	Thank you for asking. I also want to thank you for our cooperation. In fact, a lot of questions about your directly elected people that you're talking to me with, my team is trying to decide with me. I would like to say that any request that requires further verification and that falls within the mandate of the Commissioner for Human Rights needs a permutation directly on the way out. So the first thing we do is we go to the place, we check. That's what happened, for example, in one region recently, I could call it Winnitz. But after we checked on the Trieste’s chief physician, we learned that this man had been released. More and more examples of the coming out of the Commissioner’s team and those seeking protection of their rights are being subjected to direct persecution and various forms of ploy. So I think we're going to do this generalization directly and we're going to send it to the Attorney General of Ukraine on these facts, we're going to control it, and I'm going to give a concrete answer to your questions about these facts, including those of the Blacks. You know them better than anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u168	Another one of the Bukovinas, George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u169	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Nina Ivanovna, a few questions. First. You said that, until now, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system, and perhaps the Department of Punishment is being tortured. What steps are being taken to help these workers? What responsibility do they have? And how the heads of the respective institutions react to these things. That's the first one. The other one. It seems to me that sometimes political persecution needs to be distinguished from the fact that a person is released from office for outright abuse, including during an election campaign, when his authority was exercised in behalf of an overpowered candidate. And next. Shahirian district, Central District Hospital, Chief Doctor Misurko, I'm calling you a fact. He is persecuted by the head of the regime of this area. Please shake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u170	Thank you for asking. Thank you. I would like to say, Mr. George, that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has not recognized the existence of torture in this system until recently. Remind me of my previous report. The deputy minister of the interior of Ukraine, the respected Mikola Kornienko, was here in the government’s bed, denying and even saying that Karpachev had lied about the existence of these tortures. But I would say it was time to prove it, and the lawkeepers were convinced of it, and at least they didn't just know it, and they knew it. At least they had the courage to determine that she had been authorized. And in the summer of last year, I was invited to attend the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where I presented a 40-minute report on the state of law enforcement of the Ukrainian human rights and freedoms system. And then the entire college, and the leaders in all the regions of Ukraine, all of them, agreed with me that unfortunately, this disgraceful practice continues in Ukraine in the IMF system. Moreover, it was first recognized in this college that conditions in temporary holding cells, where conditions that were not humanly appropriate, could also be viewed as torture. And then a joint inspection began. We signed an agreement between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Commissioner for Human Rights, and there were joint checks on the way out. But what I'm saying is, the law enforcement is very reluctant to go on such a common day. And our courts are reluctant to apply article 127, which defines torture as a type of crime when it comes to law enforcement authorities, first of all, and the prosecution’s argument that law enforcement officials have used torture. In general, law enforcement officials are either freed from punishment, or, for example, they are punished within the time limits. And this is a disgraceful court practice. I give many examples in this account. But I would like to see that all of us here do not lack attention to this problem. And that's why the UN Convention, which defines torture as just the type of crime, is the law that you just passed, which has changed the 127 articles -- torture, the European Council Convention against Torture. And it was the monitoring committee that conducted the torture committee of the Council of Europe that gave us all concrete examples and concrete, as they say, why we should fight these crimes. Your second question. Yes, absolutely true: where there were abuses of brutality, there were countless, but I mean. Dear friends, let's call things our names. Not only Central or Eastern Ukraine have they committed violations. Yes, they were all over Ukraine. But why can't I worry about it today: Why does all the violations today by the prosecutor’s office, or more specifically, by the U.S.O.P.D. under the direction of the police only show up in one part of Ukraine? You remember the example of the cleaning lady from Kyrovgrad, an example that I gave from this rostrum of a retired woman. Thank God that we worked together and, by the way, Victor Andriyovich also responded when I gave him this example, and I want to say that the court released her from the penalty and released her just from prison. I'm going to take the example right across the Sokirian region directly into my control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-06-m1.u171	Please let's thank Nina Ivanovna and say that we have a good thing to do, that we have the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is our constitutional body, and we can see that it honors its responsibilities. Thank you, Nina Ivanovna. So respected colleagues who endured a long - standing symphony workday. Thank you. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Tomorrow, as always, from 10 a.m. to work.
