ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests and invited Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:00:15]] There were 387 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Today is the birthday of Lissin Mikola Pavlovich. Let us welcome him and wish him success. Please listen to information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council at the plenary on November 1. We discussed 13 issues of the agenda with you yesterday. As a result of their consideration, three laws and one decree have been passed. Three bills and one draft decree were adopted on the basis and seven bills were rejected. In harmony with article 2.5.2. Wednesday's rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals and announcements of requests, statements, messages. I'd like the factions to apply. In the meantime, I'm going to announce and ask MPs. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2.3. On November 1st, I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the political party “The Reform and Order” that the authorized representatives of this faction have been elected additionally by the national deputies of Ukraine, Kosov Mikhail Vasilovich and Ostaš Igor Ivanovich. The following parliamentary questions came. Paul SULKOVSKI to the President of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of believers in the religious community of the Holy Seppina Church of the village of Dorogobuž of the Goshtschen district of the Plain region, the heads of the Ravens and Goshtshan district government. Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:02:48]] For-182 Request supported. The President's request has been put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:03:14]] For 217 Not supported. Helen BONDARENKO to the President of Ukraine for the promotion of bone marrow transplant surgery for sick children. Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:03:43]] For 277 Request supported. Please vote for the President's request. [[10:04:04:04]] For 285 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of the Constitution and legislation for the submission of approvals to the Supreme Council of Military Forces, other military formations, as well as national programmes on defence and security of Ukraine. [[KRUČKOV, ANDRESSJUK AND OTHERS]] Please support the request. Vote. [[10:04:43]] For 217 Request supported. Please vote for the President's request. Vote. [[10:05:04]] For 235 Decision taken. TO THE President of Ukraine regarding corruption in the higher echelons of power, violation of the rights of investors, their robbery and intimidation by Dustenkom and his clan. Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:05:37]] For 186 Request supported. I'll bet you a vote on the President's request. Please vote. [[10:05:58]] For 222 Not accepted. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the attempt to disrupt Ukraine's investment project, a credit agreement between Ukraine and Japan signed and ratified during March 2005 and aimed at building a new terminal at the Borispol International Airport. [[MAKEENKO, POLISH AND OTHERS]] It's about support. [[10:06:44]] For 288 Request supported. I'll bet you a vote on the President's request. Please vote. [[10:07:04]] For 272 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine regarding the unlawful actions of judges in the cities of Kiev, Odessa, Equal to the Open Shareholder Society of the Hmělní nuclear power plant. [[SPAK, OLUIKO, DOUBIC]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:39]] For 260 Request supported. I'll bet you a vote on the President's request. Please vote. [[10:07:59]] For 255 Decision taken. Mr. Alexander Tkalenka to the President of Ukraine on overcoming the ecological, geological and socio-economic consequences of the accelerated closure of the Donetsk region mines. There's a vote of support. [[10:08:30.]] For 304 Request supported. I'll bet you a vote on the President's request. Please vote. [[10:08:51]] For 307 Decision taken. Gregory SURKISA to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the National Olympic Sports Complex during the preparations for the tender for the final part of the 2012 European Championship from football and non-compliance with legislation during the construction of its territory. Please vote in favour. [[10:09:28]] For 279 Request supported. I'll bet on the vote on the request. President. Please vote. [[10:09:49]] For 292 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the reasons for the dismissal of Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Sergio Grishchenka. [[Silent, Wheeler, and Others]] Please support the request. [[10:10:18]] For 190 Request supported. Please vote for the request. [[10:10:42]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Viacheslava Anisimov to the President of Ukraine on the inaction of the Dniprožinska Public Prosecutor’s Office in the question of the cessation of the illegal activity of an organized criminal group created by the coworkers of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the city’s tax police. Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:11:22]] For 238. Supported. Please vote for the request. Vote. [[10:11:43]] For the 250. Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the President of Ukraine for failure to implement article 85 of the Constitution by the Administration of State Protection concerning the approval by the Supreme Council of the general structure, number and definition of functions. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:12:14]] For 177 Request supported. I'll bet you a vote on the President's request. [[10:12:35]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Valery Konovaluk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the statement of mistrust to the Head of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the situation of poisoning candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. MICHAYLA RADIO to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of information on the use of funds for shipping abroad by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputies and employees of the Supreme Council’s apparatus during 2005. Anatolia NALIVAYKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of transport by car of a war invalid in Afghanistan to the inhabitants of the city of Yenakiyeva. ROBERT to the Prime Minister for the examination of the facts set out in the address of the citizens of House No. 8 on the street of the Elevator city of Simferopol. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Prime Minister for maintaining the wage ratio of 1.5 in the city of enhanced radiological control, Sarrah of the Plain region. Vassil HARA to the Prime Minister on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act “To amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure timely payment of wages”. GEORGIA KRUCHKOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation in the airline sector of Ukraine. Oleg ZARUBINSKI AND VADIM GUROVA to the Prime Minister on the role of the Holding Fund and its heads in ensuring the implementation of a transparent mechanism for the implementation of the production of “Civoristal”. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the use of the funds received from the privatisation of “Cruvoristals”. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds to complete the construction of the gas pipeline to the villages of Olievka and the Svetin of the Žitomir region. Mr. Ivan PLJUJA to the Prime Minister, acting as Attorney General for the irresponsible treatment of the Attorney General's Office, Departments of Industrial Policy to Rule of Law in addressing issues related to the protection of foreign investments at the Sevierodenonian Union “Azot”. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Prime Minister on the 2006 State Budget provision of pensions for citizens who are assigned to the “children of war” category. KIORIAN SERgy to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Bank for Ineffective Management of the Open Shareholder Society of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister regarding the situation in the military-building complex of the Ministry of Defence. To the Prime Minister for the status of adoption cases. Victor OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister, Head of the Board on the verification of the appropriateness of the positions held by the head of the Romani District State Administration of the Jítomir Region of Valerija Yasinsky and his involvement in the responsibility for the violation of the Anti-Corruption Act. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for failure to execute court decisions concerning the collection of debt on a salary from the subsidiary of the Barva Industrial and Trade Company of the city of Heivoron Kirovograd. John ZAJEUJA to the Prime Minister on the establishment of a regulatory framework to accelerate the process of reforming housing and utilities in part of the reconstruction of heat-generating equipment and the introduction of energy-efficient technologies. Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice for the failure to enforce the ruling of the Grand Duchy District Court of Kharkiv County by the judicial executives of the State Executive Service. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister on the payment of the debt on wages to miners of the “Earth” Mine “October” and the “Coal waiter” Society of the Donetsk Region. GOVERNMENT TO THE Prime Minister, acting as Attorney General, Head of the Kyiv City Administration, on corruption in the higher echelons of power, violation of the rights of investors, robbery and intimidation by the Dusty and his clan. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the Implementation of the Law on the Social Protection of Children of War, by providing the necessary funds in the State Budget for 2006. FIXA to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance on the mechanism for providing benefits regarding the free use of housing with heating and lighting of teaching, medical, pharmaceutical and cultural workers. Vladimir ZAJIJA to the Prime Minister for the implementation of capital repairs and for the operation of kindergartens in the village of Oceretjanka of the Red Army region of the Žitomir region. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Prime Minister for the review of the size of payments that apply the minimum wage. Valentina SAVIĆKO to the Prime Minister for the reconstruction of the Youth Centre in Novograd-Wolinski Žitomirsk. Victor PETROVA to the Prime Minister for not allowing the closure of the Olgopil district hospital in the Chechélnick district. Hennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister on the problems of financing residential institutions of sanitary education in the case of the Grand Duchy boarding school in the region of Poltava. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister, Attorney General for Energy Security in Ukraine, in connection with the deployment of military forces, is the fuel base of the Western Operational Command of the Ministry of Defence and the failure of the innovation and investment programme “Creating EuroEnergo Systems Alpha”. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the inclusion of Vinick airport in investment programs. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister for financing the construction of schools in the Irsav region of Zakarpat. A PANASOVSKI Oleg to the Prime Minister for amending the Budget Code in part of the financing, modernization and capital-important housing and utility funds financed from the State budget. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of budget funds for citizens to purchase government-mandated interest-free loans in 1990. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the attempt to break the payment for Ukraine of the investment project, a credit agreement between Ukraine and Japan signed and ratified during March 2005 and aimed at building a new terminal at the Borispil International Airport. Hennady RUDENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Antimonopoly Committee, the National Commission on Electricity Regulation for sabotage by the National Shareholder Company Naftogaza Ukraine, to develop infrastructure from the introduction of alternative fuels on road transport. Gregory SURKISA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation surrounding the National Olympic Sports Complex during the preparations for the tender for the final part of the 2012 European Championship from football and non-compliance with legislation during the construction of its territory. Anatoly of ORJAHOV to the Prime Minister, head of the Herson District Council, concerning the situation that has arisen around the preservation of individual objects of communal property of the Red Caban village community in the Herson region. Oleg TGAGNIBOK to the Prime Minister, head of the Kiev City Administration, for the immediate dismantling of the Lenin, Kosiore, Petrovsky and others monuments in Kiev. Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to the Prime Minister in order to pay off the arrears of the employees of Mine No.71 “Industry”. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of a passenger car “Tavria” with disabilities and a group of the Great Homeland War, resident of the village of Gradiszk Poltava district. Mr. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister, the first Deputy Attorney General for the requirements of the citizens of Cherkasa to prohibit the construction of a service complex. John SCHEDULE to the Prime Minister for the protection of a collection of burial buildings of Scythian times near the village of Pustovijtovka of the Romanian district of Suma and the creation of the Romanian State Historical and Archaeological Reserve. Mr Eugene HIRNIKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds for the region of Ivano-Frankow. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on speeding up the submission by the Cabinet of Ministers of proposals for the ratification of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Vadima GUROVA to the Prime Minister for financing the environmental, social and other problems of Krivbas. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Prime Minister for failure to implement solutions regarding the disposal of pesticides that are not suitable for further use in the Mid-Bud and Yampil areas of the Sumi region. Vitalia OLUYKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of a subsidy for the construction of gas pipelines to rural settlements in the Hmelnicka region. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister is deeply dissatisfied with the public interests and interests of the working group at the “Lvivsilmash” factory. Eugene LAPINA to the Prime Minister on how to finance the purchase of children's New Year's gifts. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to the Prime Minister on the underfunding of gas pipelines and gasification of public areas according to Cabinet Order 687. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister, the first Deputy Attorney General for the violation of the rights of former employees of the company “The State Tribal Plant Velika Burimka” in the Cherkas region of Cherkas region in the process of its dissolution and privatization. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister on the matter of the gravity of the decision to execute the court's decision on the payment of salaries to employees of the Karlovy Rajobina Kombinate of the Poltava Region. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the gasification and completion of the construction of separate socio-cultural sites for rural communities in the region of Bilozer. Valery BORZOVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister on the gasification of the villages of Maryanivka and the Long Kozelščina district of Poltava. Vladimír LECHENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister on the legal subordination of the forest-preservation strips of Ukraine. Igor ŠURMI to Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenka on the legality and purpose of liquidation in the city of Bila Church of the city's oncological dispensary. Mr. Vladimir Khalijer to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko on the extension of construction and the opening of a new place of general education in Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk. Groups of National Deputies to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenka on the artistic design of the Kyiv puppet theatre. [[STAY, KOSIOV, AND OTHERS]] Vassil Hari is under the responsibility of Henprocuror for the appropriateness of the position of prosecutor of the Donetsk district and of the individual officers of the district attorney’s office. Vitalia MOYKA to the first deputy of Henprocuror on the involvement of the prosecutor of the Montenegrin District in the redistribution of ownership of the open shareholders company Čezara. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the Central Intelligence Agency for the verification of information on the purposeless use of budgetary resources in 2004. Igor ALEXEYEVA to the office of Attorney General regarding the legality of keeping a citizen of Ephraim in custody. LUKYANENKA’S left to the attorney general’s first deputy on the existence of signs of corruption in the actions of today’s U.S. Special Forces. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA to the Attorney General regarding the persecution of opposition representatives and the illegal actions of prosecutors and court officials in Suma. Catherine VASTUK to the first Deputy Attorney General, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, on a situation involving the alienation of land and property rations, of agricultural land in the suburban zone of Kiev. MIKOLI ALIEN to the office of the Attorney-General regarding the organization of the ex-Head of the Board of Auditors, Alexander Turkin's monitoring of the people's deputies, the senior officials of the State. Boris Svetoslav Piscohn, who was responsible for the prosecutor - general’s duty to give legal assessment to the actions of ex - Prosecutor General Svetoslav Piscohn in deliberately delaying criminal proceedings. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the executive responsibility of Henprocuror for ex-State Secretary of State Alexander Zinchenko for the Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime, Valery Hellet. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the first Deputy Attorney General, Head of the Board, on the facts of the criminal investigation involving the events of March 9, 2001. A group of national deputies under the responsibility of Henprocuror, Minister of Justice, on the situation that has arisen at the “Glass” radio station in Odessa, as a result of the unlawful actions of individual political forces, illegal judicial decisions, unlawful actions of judicial perpetrators. [[CARMASINE, DIVORCE, AND OTHERS]] VALERIA LEBEDIEVS to the office of the Attorney General for the absence of an answer to a request regarding the appropriateness of the position of prosecutor in Shevchenkov district of Kyiv. Oleg BILORUS, acting as Attorney General for the improper investigation by the District Attorney’s Office of the situation of abuse of office by officials of Korstensk Mesquikonka. Paul SULKOVSKI to Henprokur, Prosecutor of the Plain region, Prosecutor of the Rokitni district, Minister of Education and Science, Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights for the violation of constitutional rights to work, respect for honour, dignity, oppression and persecution on the political grounds of the directors of the schools of the Rokitni district, by the deputy heads of the district public administration and the head of the education department of the district public administration. Larissa VAZANKO to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the protection of the constitutional rights of the employees of ARBIS and of the unlawful actions of the law enforcement authorities in a criminal case committed by fraud against the Director-General of the Open Association of the South Mountain-enriching Union. To the Attorney General, the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the Head of the Obuchi District State Administration on the unconstitutional authorities in the village of Kozin Obuhiwa district, and the inaction of law enforcement authorities and authorities in providing guarantees of local self - government. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the first Deputy Attorney-General on the illegality of receiving State budget funds allocated for partial compensation for the amount of class allowances for the purchased seed under the programme “Separation in Planting”. Valery MASHURA to the Attorney-General's Office for Unlawful Action, Moral and Psychological Harassment by the Head of the State Enterprise Journal of the Tax Service of Ukraine regarding the editorial staff. Jury CARMAZIN under the responsibility of the Attorney General, the Ministry of Health, the head of the Donetsk district administration, the head of the Donetsk City Council on the prevention of violations of the constitutional right of residents of Donetsk to life and health of the environment, the cessation of construction in the Central Cultural Park and the rest of the name of Szczerbakov. Anatolia HIRSCHFELDA to the procurator - general’s responsibility for verifying the State’s “Lozov horse factory No. 124 ” to bankruptcy. Ms. Alexander Kiselova to the Attorney General's Office, Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the violation of the rights of entrepreneurs in the city of Kharkova in the conduct of unscheduled checks on entrepreneurial activities by employees of the internal affairs administration of the city Vladimir Paka to the office of the Attorney General regarding the right of ownership of the Donetsk farm for the property of former colporteur markets. Anatolia GREZYEVA to the Acting Attorney General, Prime Minister of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the non-payment of salaries to the employees of the Jankoj Canned Factory for the period 2000-2005. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney General's Office on the inaction of the prosecutor's office in the district of Kyiv in connection with the theft of state property and other violations in the open stock company Bilšík. Valery BORZOVA to the Attorney General’s Office, Ministry of Defence, on the legality of the alienation of property of the entire military complex No. 40 in Odessa. Valery CONANOVALKA to the Henprocurator’s Office on the violation of legislation in part of the use of budget funds by the former head of the National Television company Mikola Knieżicky. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Interior, for the sale of an animal farm and a wine factory called Frunze in the village of the Great Copani of the Turupin district of Herson. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for the investigation of a criminal case committed against a resident of Winnice and for the examination of internal affairs officials. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General’s Office, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the violation of the constitutional and legal rights of the citizen of Crukova, for unfounded refusal to commit a criminal offence in which she was subjected to bodily harm by the head of the Stahanov tax police in the Lugansk region. Ms. Alexander KOSJANENKA and Ms. Sergey RJDNAK for the executive responsibility of the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Board for the violation of legitimate interests and damage to the international reputation of the State institution, the Centre for the Adoption of Children of the Ministry of Education and Science as a result of the illegal activity of citizens. VADIM MISSURA to the executive responsibility of Henprocuror for violations of legislation in making decisions regarding the construction project in Kiev. Ms. Alexander Tkalenka to the office of Attorney General, Minister of Justice, regarding the failure of officials of the State Executive Service to perform their duties, the Public Prosecutor's Office of Kiev, on the basis of the fact that the management of the private enterprise “Rexon” has been called to account for failing to comply with the ruling of the Court of Justice. MIKOLI RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the office of the Attorney General, Head of the Board for the illegal use by the officials of the Chernobyl Mesquikon Light Car. Anatoly of RACHANS to the First Deputy Attorney General, Minister of Justice, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the payment of arrears on salary since 2001 to employees of the municipal enterprise of the city of Armenia’s Red Cross. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, Head of State Tax Administration, on the abuse of power, on official negligence, on the corruption of individual DPA employees in the Lviv region in the verification of taxes by Carpathbud. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Secretary for National Security and Defence for the ineffective work of the prosecutorial authorities in the fight against the theft of state and shareholding property and the threat to Ukraine’s national security. Levka LUKJANENKA to the first Deputy Attorney General on the existence of signs of corruption in the actions of the Prosecutor of Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk Inter-Procuratorship of Borsulak. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Health on the ill condition of holding patients in the hospital named Yashchenka in Winnitsa. Valerija Suščevića to the Ministry of Health on the free and extended care of persons with disabilities by means of rehabilitation in accordance with the Act on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. Mr Ivana VERNIDUPOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy, Head of the Department of State for Fisheries in respect of the repayment of the debt from wages to employees of the state-owned enterprises “Atlantic” and “Sevastopol Ocean Fisheries Administration” in Sevastopol. Valeria GORBATOVA to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the situation in the village of Dône City of Sudak in connection with the rise in water levels in the Souk Sou. JOURY KEYKOVSKOVSKI to the Minister of Industrial Policy on the Crisis Situation of the Lighthouse “Calculator”. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the financing of the institutions of the social protection system of the population of the Poltava region. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the Improvement of Individual Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers for the Assignment of State Social Assistance to Multi-child and Under-Supplied Families. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the wrongly paying off of the disability and the group by sight. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Ministry of Health for the provision of a fluorographic facility at the Brezni Central District Hospital in the Plains region. Ms. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Education and Science on the violation of the law by the management of the University of Donetsk. Larissa SACHANKO to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, for the enforcement of the rights provided by law to a wartime participant. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chonobil disaster on the stability of the riverbank line in the village of Ilnice Irsav region of Zakarpatsk. Valeria BARTKIVA to the Ministry of Education and Science on the purchase of a school bus for children in the village of Sloboda in the district of Sumsk. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Minister of Justice for the enforcement of the decision of the Regional Court of the Suma District by the employees of the Department of Executive Services. CATHERINA FOMENCO to the Minister of the Coal Industry for the distribution of funds for the maintenance of carbon - carbon - generating facilities transferred to municipal property. Alexander KYSELOVA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the violation of the rights of a veteran of work when it comes to the collection of wages and the recalculation of pension benefits for workers who worked in the institutions of the Soviet Union, either externally or in international organizations. Igor ŠURMI to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the provision of official information on the annual reduction of population in Ukraine between 2003 and 2005 and the prospects for addressing the demographic crisis. Alexander FELDMAN to the Minister of Justice regarding the order of application of paragraph 6.10., sub-paragraph 5. 2 The Supreme Council regulation on the signing of laws by the President of Ukraine. Ms Vladimir Lještenka to the Minister of Justice on the grounds of non-insurance by the State Enforcement Service of the Justice Authorities for the enforcement of judicial decisions concerning the payment of debts to education workers under Article 57 of the Education Act. Efima FIXA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy for Consumer Rights Violations in Accounting with the Population for Electricity consumed by the employees of the Volnova district electricity network of Donetsk Oblenergo. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Kiev City Head for the local government administration to pay the difference in tariffs for housing-building cooperatives and the union of joint owners of multi-family buildings. Petra SIMONENKA to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for granting the status of “State Memorial” to the burial of Soviet soldiers in the Darnicki district of the city. Anatoly by DOMANS to the head of the DPA on the actions of the head of the Alexandrian State Tax Inspectorate and the employees of the State Tax Administration of the region of Kirovograd. Sergey LARINA to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission for misconduct in the establishment of the territorial constituencies. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the Dismantling and Privatization of Property and Land of Agricultural Enterprises “Strilce” and “Kotikowka” of the Region of Jáno-Frankov Region. MICHELLE TO THE BAB Head on the legality of granting Stanislaw Rechinski's apartment, the press secretary of the ex-Head of the Board of Directors, Alexander Turkinova. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Head of State Standard for the Cessation of Food Products without the legal documents on quality and safety. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the heads of the Zacarpathian District Council and the District State Administration for violations of the newspaper “News of the Carpathian” of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. Victor PETROVA to the Head of the Viennese District State Administration on the telephoneization of the home of the disabled man of the Great Homeland War. GEORGIA BUYKA to the Head of the Donetsk district government regarding the granting of a permit for the use of own savings for gasification of the residents of the town of Dérjinsk. John MIHOVIĆA to the city’s city head for improving the living conditions of the family of the city of Kyiv Hinalski. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Head of the Detainee Foundation, the first deputy general prosecutor for the illegal terms of the contract for the purchase and sale of a package of shares of the company “Ukrainian Research Institute of Textile Industry”. Bogdan GUBSKI to the Kiev City Head, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, for the improvement of the health care of the inhabitants of the villages of Novosilka and Chabana Kyewo-Swiatoshin region of Kyiv region. Vladimir Paka to the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration regarding the response to the appeal of a veteran of the Great Homeland War by the authorities of the State and local self - government of the area. Vadim MISURA to the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the non-deprival of electricity from the Dnipro Gardeners, located near the village of Osješčina in the Vishgrad region. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Head of the Qualificational Commission of the Judges of the Commercial Courts on the violation of the question of bringing the deputy head of the Master Court of the Johno-Frank region to disciplinary responsibility. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for a situation that arose in the construction of the science prospectus. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the first deputy of the Bilocerkow City Head on a situation that occurred in the city’s construction and repair department. Igora ŠKIRI to Dnipropetrovska District Prosecutor, Dnipropetrovska City Prosecutor for the violation of the legislation of the Senior Prosecutor's Office of Dnipropetrovsk Rajama regarding private companies “Flamingo”, “Help”, “Triumf”. Zaryy KATUSHOVI to the District Attorney's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the collection of the debt on the salary of a citizen of Rudenko from the farm “Moloda Guardia”. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the procurator of the Cherkas region on the ground of unjustified denial of a criminal case and of a violation of legislation in the handling of complaints about the protection of the rights of the inhabitants of the village of Shepherd, violated by officials. Stepan GAVRISHA and Dmitr SANDLER to the prosecutor of Kiev regarding the violation of legislation by the management of the Open Shareholder Society “The Ukrainian Research Institute for Analytical Engineering”. Thus, 150 requests were received from the factions: the Communists of Ukraine – 31, the “Regions of Ukraine” – 15, the People's Party – 12, “Our Ukraine” – 18, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko – 15, the Socparty – 9, the Ukrainian People's Party – 7, the Social-Democratic Party – 18, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 3, “Only Ukraine” – 3, “National Movement” – 2, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 1, “Reforms and Orders” – 5, “Trust of the People” – 5, “non-fractional – 8. [[united]] Yes, who, in order to return to the vote on the President's behalf, please vote. Who's in charge of coming back? [[10:41:49]] For 244 Decision taken. We're back. I will put to the vote questions that have received support, but have not received the necessary number of votes to send to the President. Vote on the President's request Paul Sulkovski to the President of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of believers of the religious community of the Holy Seppina Church of the village of Dorogobuj of the Goshtán district of the Plain region, the heads of the Ravenna district and the Goshtán district government. Please vote. [[10:42:39]] For 258. Decision taken. It's about voting on the request we've been sending to the President of Ukraine for corruption in the higher echelons of power, violation of the rights of investors, theft and deterrence of the powder. Please vote. [[10:43:17]] For 222 Not directed. The factions. Communists - 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 43, National Party – 15, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block of Timoshenko – 28, SPI – 6, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Social Democrats – 20, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 19, “Trust of the People” – 3, “Reforms and Order” – 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, National Movement – 0, “Only Ukraine” – 6, “non-fractional” – 12. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the reasons for the dismissal of Deputy Minister of Prompolitics Sergio Grishchenka. [[Silent, Wheeler, and Others]] [[10:44:16]] Z-71 Not accepted. And Georgia Manchulenka to the President of Ukraine for failure to comply with article 85 of the Constitution of the Department of State Protection concerning the approval of the Supreme Council of the general structure, number and definition of functions. Vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:44:49]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Well, let's get this straight. If it were 187, they would explain. And if 87 is what to explain here. There's no motive. Now we'll figure out what else we have here. Dear colleagues, we've spent about 45 minutes on what we would have spent, so. I don't know, if you make arrangements for us to work without interruption, then the factions and groups will be given the opportunity to speak. Are we working all the time? We work all the time. Then we'll be right back. Let's move on to the factions and groups. Please, Mikhaylo Melniczuk, the faction of Soccer. Prepare the King Victor. Mikhail Vasilovich, do you give up your word? Please, Victor the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u2	Statement by our Ukrainian deputy faction on the 2006 project of the Ukrainian State Budget. Honorable deputies, distinguished listeners. The deputy faction “Our Ukraine” points out that the adoption of the 2006 budget has unfortunately turned into a political campaign of some individuals and political factions of our Ukraine. So today I want to turn your weight on behalf of our faction on the budget situation. We've accepted the budget with you in the first reading and I would like to say that our Ukraine's MP is actively involved in budgeting, it can't agree with the positions we've taken with you right now. I'm drawing your attention and asking for your support so that we don't leave the question of creating a budget outside of our attention. First of all, I would like to point out that there was a situation in which social pay went beyond the size of the Wages Fund. And you and I can get to the fact that in the near future the government and we'll be responsible for not being able to pay the salary in the budget area. Today I support and our faction fully supports the President's proposals that the 2006 budget should end up being a development budget rather than a food budget. And that's what we've expressed for each of our positions. Next. I would like you and I to understand that the government has declared and we must support this, because each of us has advocated lowering tax pressure on entrepreneurs. And it was declared, and you voted for it. So the faction of our Ukraine will support the issue of budget support if the second-reading government brings us, first, the budget will be balanced and within the budget deficit will not exceed 2 or, ultimately, 3 percent, it was in our budget resolution. That's why we talked to you. Secondly, if you consider the government's proposals to reduce tax burden, tax pressure. And thirdly, I would like to draw your weight that the budget committee and the faction of our Ukraine have sent all our comments with you to the government, where the government will have to consider and take into account our observations, coming out of the possibilities that there are. Only when these conditions are met will we be able to accept a budget that will satisfy both the government and perform those functions that are budgeted for the 2006 development budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u3	Please, Mikola Kuharczuk, Communist faction. Get ready for Rajisy Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, voters, Mikola Kuharczuk, faction of the Ukrainian company, Equality. From the beginning of Ukraine’s independence, the law - abiding forces of the Plainskin led by the national deputy Vasil Red actually declared war on the canonic Ukrainian Orthodox Church. During this time, some 40 temples were captured and transferred to the Kyiv Patriarchate’s OPC. With the direct involvement of the Redwaters, the Holy Resurrection Cathedral is occupied in the city of Raven, the Ecumenical Authority, the temples in the village of Kolodjanka, Basovka and others. Kravczuk's regimes, Kuchma's compliance with the principle of “separate and rule” in carrying out the strategic plans of Western masters for the destruction of the Orthodox Church, as a powerful source of spirituality of the Ukrainian people, in fact contributed to this breakup. He does not keep his earthly promises to believers and to President Yushchenko. Upon becoming the head of the government, Basil made the Red Seizure of the temples a major occupation of power. Yesterday you heard of religious opposition provoked by the authorities in Ostroza. Today, let me announce the withdrawals from my appeal as the national deputy of Ukraine to the believing villages of Bogdaszów in the Ddolbunov region. “The religious community of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the village of Bogdašev, on behalf of all the parishioners, is asking you to protect us from the apostasy, lawlessness, humiliation, which is created on the part of us on the part of the defect, in particular the heads of the Regional Authority of the Red Sea and other authorities. The premises of the Holy Cross Church in the village of Bogdashev are a monument to the architecture of the 13th century. In line with the decision of the Ravenna District Council on September 25, 91st, the temple was handed over to the religious community of the UPC village of Bogdašev in the use of an indefinite term and the administration of the construction and architecture of the Ravenna District Council has concluded a security agreement with the religious community, which is currently in effect. Yet, on September 9, 1999, the religious community of the Kyiv Patriarchate’s UPC arbitrarily captured the Holy Cross and prevented our religious community and our parishioners from joining the church. There have been repeated disputes in the courts about the use of the church, but the decisions of the courts by the executive service have not been carried out, and our parishioners have had to send worship under the open sky into frosts, notices, rains. Certain rituals and services are sent to a priest’s residence. But the head of the Revenny government of the Red on March 25, this year, by order of 105, overturned the decision of the Ravenna District Council to transfer to our community of the Apostolic Church and handed over this order to the religious community of the Kyiv Patriarchate. On September 30, the head of the government gave the order to take away the residence of a priest. There's his little one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u5	Thank you. Raisa Bogatirirov, faction of “Ukraine”. She'll be followed by Mikola Zochchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! I want to ask you a question as well as myself. What is common among such close at different times to President Yushchenko by persons such as a citizen of Piscoon, Minister of Interior Lucenko and Defence Minister Grishchenko? By examining the actions, statements, and conduct of these officials, the answer can be only one: adventure and provocation. Thank God, the President realized the extent of the damage caused by the U.S. Attorney - General in the area of the murder of Gongadze. Yet only the release of Piscoon cannot rehabilitate the President himself, who, early in the year, placed his own honor on bail by issuing advances of conscience to the Piscoun. Public recognition by the president of his indiscretion and shortsightedness in the formation of higher authority can still stop the destruction of trust in him. So as the President gathers with spirit, another person has given us all a public lesson of honour and truth: the citizen of Yakov Taktaš, deliberately deprived of the office of the Senior Prosecutor General's Office for his virtues, without political or professional immunity for all of Ukraine, has testified publicly against the acting and all-powerful deputy of Attorney General Shokin, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Moscow, Head of UBOP Kornič and, in fact, against Lucenk himself. In its essence and evidentiary basis, Taktashova claims that these officials and authorities are accused of ordering and falsifying the investigation into the case against Boris Kolesnikov. Let us recall whether, at least once in the past or in the past, in the case of the arrest of a political officer investigating the case in question, there was evidence of the actual nature of the criminal case against the opponent of the regime, exposing its orderly false essence of political revenge. No! No! Neither the political singing of the sufferers with a show of truthfulness, nor the parliamentary immunity, namely, the investigator stood up for the accused and accused the investigation itself, actually accused the Attorney General of becoming the commission table today. The value of this truth in our judicial system may be prison. Therefore, unlike the President, we take responsibility to protect Taktashov from persecution by evaluating and appreciating a person, not in advance, but after a dignified act. And finally. In the beginning, I mentioned three officials: I told you about Piscoon, Lucenka, and now I'm going to say the most about the Minister of Defense. With his recent statement in Brussels, he alone usurped the President’s constitutional rights and the right of the people to determine the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u7	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u8	has already introduced Ukraine into NATO in 2008. In the rule of law with the President himself, such a minister would have returned home in private with an "ex" plugin and would have studied the Criminal Code just in case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u9	Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko, “Go, Ukraine!” He'll be followed by Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u10	Mikola Noshchenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Litvina People's Block. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We are all parties to the intense long-term work on the draft law on the 2006 State Budget. Thank God, yesterday we had enough stamina, and thanks to our speaker, Volodymyr Litvin, who was consolidating most of our efforts, we supported 277 votes. But there are concerns about the state of local budgets in 2005. There is practically annual funding of the sphere. The budget area at the level of many cities, areas already in use, is at great risk of a social explosion. One hope for the Supreme Council. To avoid that, we passed Bill 865. In the first reading, which provides for local budgets of 1.5 billion, it is entrusted to work on the government and the budget committee. At the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, a joint committee was established to review the status of the cases in three areas. Check done. For example, in my areas, for example, in the Mid - Pula region, in the start of November 2nd, they can't even count the wage for budget workers. The feeding of children in the 1-4 classes in the Sumskie region is not being done at all. Budget workers go on unpaid vacations on a massive scale. I am convinced that the situation is similar with local budgets in other areas. At present, there is a double, sometimes opposite, view of the real state of budgetary financing at the village, village, and city levels. This, in practice, leads to the destruction of first the social sphere and then the small settlements. However, Prime Minister Yehanurov’s letter from October 3 to the Supreme Council stated that there is no problem in Ukraine with local budgets. And as a result, this bill on the Conciliation Council didn't even come up for consideration this sessional week. No agreements have been reached and local budgets have been met by a government committee chaired by Mr. Immortal in the past Wednesday. The next time we talked, we let a couple go, and we split up. Next. So far, the government has not allocated 114 million dollars of subsidies to local projects. The best time for repairs and construction is practically lost. There is no proper funding for other social programs. Taking into account the open-ended sources of filling for the State Budget already this year, I am asking my colleagues at this sessional week to consider and accept changes to the budget for the local budgets. It's a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u11	Please, Oleg Belarus. He is referred to by the word “only Ukraine”, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u12	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs and citizens! On behalf of the BUT faction and a number of friendly factions, I would like to address a number of issues of public interest today. At the same time, our faction emerges from the positive and constructive strategic positions of national and national solidarity, the pooling and mobilization of all efforts to solve pressing national problems and challenges. The first is the pace of economic development and its scale. The pace at four or five percent of the increase in gross domestic product for Ukraine is low and unacceptable. In fact, they mean a long - term backlog even from developing countries, including Asian countries such as China, Vietnam, and even countries in Africa, where the rate of economic growth has reached between 12 and 15 percent over the past 20 years. Is there such a possibility in Ukraine? Of course there is. Ukraine is rich in natural resources, human, intellectual resources. This requires one thing: effective government and corporate management, and the adoption of a mobilization and national economic development strategy as a minimum of ten years in advance. Without such a strategy, we lose international competition with our partners every year, we lose the level of international competitiveness of Ukraine. Far behind, even from many countries in Africa, taking up the '80s, 90th place in the world. Unfortunately, the government of Yehanurov has shown that it has no economic strategy, no economic policy. This is unacceptable and unacceptable luxury. Once again, we urge the President to create a High Council, the Supreme Economic Council of Ukraine. And with the participation of the Supreme Council to begin the development of a national socio-economic development strategy. We need to use all the positive elements of the government's action programme, Timoshenko, “Meet the people”. This strategic program was approved by the Supreme Council and has not been canceled. This strategic programme was adopted by the people of Ukraine, especially in the area of housing, pensions, and salaries, including in 2006. The other one. Ukraine's economic policy must be, after all, consistent and stable. If the government of Timoshenko offered $500 for 2006. minimum wage and $500. the minimum of living, and the Supreme Council has approved this in the government programme, the government of Yehanurov has in principle no right to reject this social norm. They say there's no money in the government budget -- that's not true. The government of Yehanurov should cut government spending rather than social spending and reduce Mercedes, dochi, political tours, worldwide travel, not protected articles by pensioners, disabled persons, young people. Timoshenko’s government has been able to increase both pensions and salaries for 7 months and has doubled the government’s income. That's why, in 2000, the government's income budget was 43 billion, and by 2006, we have 130 billion dollars with a hook, 3 times more. So the economic miracle is also possible in our country, and all we have to do is implement it. Instead of dividing the budget gap annually by 20 billion dollars of gross domestic product growth, GDP should be increased by 15 percent annually. The reserves are huge, the shadow economy reaches 60 percent, the customs office has not yet given a third of what it can give, and we need to immediately introduce a state monopoly on alcohol, tobacco and other objects. The government has to look for these reserves and mobilize them, not curb the growth of the government's revenue. Dear colleagues, the mobilization of our productive forces raises this question, and who are we dealing with this in practice? Who are dealing with internal problems today? Who are dealing with social problems in government? The renunciation, the refusal of the government of Yehanurov from social responsibility, is a disgrace. And the people of Ukraine will give their assessment of these facts in the March National Elections. From the MP’s faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs is Vitaly Ivanovich Miko. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u13	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Statement by the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. On 30 August 2005, the Prosecutor's Office of the Chernigiv Region was prosecuted for the abuse of the service position of officials of the Open Shareholders Association "Cezara", which caused damage to the company. The open company "Cezara" was formed according to the decision of the Ministry of Industrial Construction of the Military Industrial Complex and Conversion since 26.05. In 1994 By turning a state-owned company into an open society. This business is unique because it works in the field of high technology and produces products for space purposes. The company provides jobs for more than 3,000 citizens. It maintains a wide range of social institutions, hospitals, health facilities for children and adults, and so on. Not only in Ukraine, but beyond. For many years he has worked closely and intertwinedly with many foreign companies, taking part in the Maritime Launch programme. As it was known, the prosecutor’s office, while not carrying out a criminal investigation, has been active in investigating the case and is actively conducting investigations for which a task force has been set up. For over a month now, the commission has not been able to determine the extent of the damage, which seems to have been the basis for the crime. [[in quotes]] In addition, there is no law - breaking system. It was found that the prosecutor’s office had intervened in the commercial activity of the company, which was prohibited by article 15, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Code of Masters. Having understood the unpredictability of a criminal case based on a given fact, the direction given by some officials of local authorities to an enterprise has already been sent with scrutiny by tax inspectors along with prosecutors who are actually checking out agreements that have already been checked. Tax inspection acts confirm no violations. These actions of the prosecutor’s office are detrimental to the interests of the production society. The lack of objective information on the findings of the examiners gave rise to a variety of rumours in the collective, artificially creating a nervous atmosphere. The damage increases daily not only on the “Cezara” VAT but also on the elimination of foreign investment opportunities, business image is being damaged. We appeal to the Attorney General's Office to intervene immediately and to promote the restoration of the rule of law, which will facilitate the normalization of the enterprise's manufacturing process and protect the honour of the management of VAT.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u14	Thank you. Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u15	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The parliamentary faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party warns. [[united]] The state of euphoria, in which power fell with such ease and satisfaction after the sale of the “Criminals”, is baseless and dangerous. October 24 was the day of the beginning of the sale of Ukraine from the hammer. The reselling of a domestic strategic object to a foreign owner introduces new conditions of existence in Ukraine, especially in the field of law. The televised openness of the trades of the “Croatstal” testified that the laws of the Ukrainian authorities were not written. The catastrophic lack of money has led to the reselling of “Criminals” and then to a gross violation of the 41st article of the Constitution of Ukraine, the legislative norm on participation in industrial privatization, not an economic investor defined by the law of the sale competition. Finally, there are no decisions by the last European Court of Human Rights. Not only Ukraine but also the world’s compatriots are accustomed to systematic, cynical, insolent disregard for the authority of current legislation. The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine of the United States believes that the reselling of the strategic pearl of the economy of the Chrystal State is nothing more than a cover-up of its own economic failures. Yet, what happened happened. The decision of the Supreme Council has been rejected, Krivoristal has been resold. Everything is sequential and orderly. After the moral betrayal of Ukrainian history at Lichakovsky Cemetery in Lviv, the time has come for treachery by the authority of national economic interests. In this, the triumph proclaimed by the authorities ends there. Further developments show that the government does not have a strategic plan for the development of the state. This is confirmed by the variety of statements made by officials of the highest rank, the distribution of the funds received. The president, the prime minister, the minister of finance, everyone has a plan. For the purpose of systematizing actions and producing common principles among the leadership of the State, the faction of SDPU(O) is proposing its bill, which should help the authorities to make the right one decision. Under such circumstances, the faction considers that the sale of Ukraine, particularly strategically important objects, should be stopped. The other one. If Krivorizstal has been sold and these funds will come, material satisfaction, namely, that of paying off the State’s obligations at the expense of citizens in savings institutions, since it was the work of the older generation that created the enterprise. It's moral satisfaction, material satisfaction. At the same time, it is a reminder to the oranges of their promises. On the stage, the president - in - law promised to give money to the people. Among others, we consider it necessary to provide housing for military personnel, to lend housing to young people, and to finance important public health programs, oncology, tuberculosis, and AIDS. As well as funding for the environmental protection of the city where the company, the Horn of the Curve, is operating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u16	The “Trust of the People ” MP tasked Demyokin Volodymyr. He will be followed by Deaf W.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u17	Vladimir Demyohin, Trust of the People, 184th District, Herson. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, over the past years, as you know, tens of thousands of officers have been dismissed, whose intellectual and institutional capacities have not been activated and have not yet been activated by our State. On the other hand, they were not ready to live in modern market conditions. They were prepared for other purposes. In 2004 alone, the strength of the armed forces was reduced by 70,000, more than 30,000 officers, flags and contract personnel were dismissed. A reduction of 40,000 is planned this year. With a view to addressing at the State level the problems of adapting troops who had been reduced and dismissed in 96 years, a national focal point for social and professional adaptation of military personnel who had been dismissed or retired had been established. It is important to emphasize that the NCC was established as an inter-ministerial central executive body to address the social problems not only of the armed forces but also of other forces. The results of NCC activities on social and professional adaptation of dismissed soldiers are positive not only for us in the country but also outside. The Commission of the European Union estimates that TACIS projects on these issues, social adaptation and social protection, are among the most successful projects implemented in the countries of the former Soviet Union. Significant international assistance was sought to adapt dismissed officers to civilian living conditions. As with the OSCE, Norway was also responsible for the implementation of three State social programmes by the British. Programme of social, professional and military adaptation. In 2005, some 40,000 dismissed troops were retrained in 26 regional centres. A housing programme for the military. You know, for today, this problem has not been solved and we have over 17,000 families of soldiers, and 80% of them have been in line for more than 10 years. Programme of conversion of military facilities. Unfortunately, however, on 7 March 2005, by decree of the President of Ukraine, the NCC was abolished and its functions were entrusted to the Ministry of Defence. In this way, the work on social protection of military personnel has been effectively halted. On the basis of the foregoing, I propose: the restoration of the National Military Adaptation Coordination Centre in rights, the provision of funds in the 2006 State budget programme to address urgent social problems, part of the funds derived from the sale of facilities such as Krivorojstal, the provision of housing and the immediate resolution of land assessment and the design of facilities sold today by the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u18	Please, Leo Glukhowski, National Movement of Ukraine. Manchulenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u19	Lew Glukhovsky, faction of the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine considers it necessary to draw the attention of the deputy corps and all the statesmen to the outstanding date mentioned in his speech yesterday by the national deputy Dmitry Pavličko. This is the 87th anniversary of the event, which in our history has been called the November Breakdown. On November 1, 1918, in Lviv, the National Democratic Forces, led by Petrusevic and Levitsky and other prominent political actors, staged an armistice against the Austrian occupying power and against the Polish forces, who tried to take Galicin into their hands. “The November Break” led to the announcement by ZUNR President Eugene Petrusevic, head of the State Secretariat, or today’s Prime Minister, Kost Levicki and Secretary of Military Affairs, Dmitry Witowski. [[West Ukrainian People's Republic]] On January 22, 1919, in Kiev, an act of ZUNR and the U.N.R.R. was solemnly declared in Sofia Square, and it was a celebration of the idea of creating an independent assembly of the Ukrainian State. Unfortunately, the age of ZUNR was short because the armed formations that protected it could not defeat the much larger and stronger Polish army of General Gallier, supported by France, resulted in the capture of Poland by Galicina. However, the meaning of the November Breakdown in the multi-century process of the Ukrainian National Liberation Movement is that it has raised high the torch of an independent idea and called for the fight and assembly of all national democratic forces. As a result, the torch was not extinguished and was later transferred to the hands of the UN and the Ukrainian rebel army in the years of World War II. The UPA also failed, unfortunately, to choose the Ukrainian independent state because it fought on two fronts, against two invaders, the Fascist Germany and Bolshevik Russia. And the forces were very uneven. But the UPA did not and did not, in fact, give it to its hexagonal followers to extinguish this torch. And at last, it sparked brightly in the late 1980s and brought it to the 91st century of expected celebration -- the formation of a Ukrainian independent state. Today's political and democratic powers of our nation have to take into account all past historical lessons and, including the lesson of November's breakup, which have convincingly demonstrated that success in creating an independent state can only be achieved through political integration. In this connection, the People’s Movement of Ukraine, in the context of the 2006 March elections, and in the name of preserving and multiplying the conquests of the orange revolution, calls upon all the Ukrainian statesmen to recreate the electoral bloc of Victor Yushchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u20	George Manchulenko, Ukrainian People's Party, faction. He will be followed by Soboljev Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u21	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. The Ukrainian People’s Party calls on the State’s leadership to protect Ukraine’s national security and sovereignty in Crimea and Sevastopol. As a result of numerous and systematic violations of Ukrainian legislation by the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation and the overthrow of a number of Ukrainian officials, Ukraine lost control over the security of its southern borders. The ships of the Black Sea fleet of Russia are uncontrollably using Ukrainian marine waters, violating Ukrainian legislation, measuring depths, and other illegal activities on the continental shelf of Ukraine, unhindered crossing the state border of Ukraine, avoiding border and customs checks. The territory of Russian presence in Crimea has gone beyond the boundaries of ships and military docks and without any leases, which means that there are no legal grounds for more than 18,000. acres of better land on the west, south and south-east coast of Crimea. On dozens of held objects, the largest constructions of Sevastopol, and even on lighthouses directly prohibited by the law, Russian national symbolism is established. Some 100 Ukrainian objects that are not even mentioned in the additions to the basic Ukrainian-Russian fleet agreements, the Black Sea fleet of Russia seized, cheated and dismantled without the knowledge of Ukrainian owners. Contrary to Ukrainian law, Russian military equipment transports explosives in Ukrainian cities and villages, and Russian military patrols voluntarily move through the streets of Sevastopol, carrying out illegal searches of Ukrainian citizens. In addition to the capture of Ukrainian lighthouses, the Black Sea Navy Marine is involved in unauthorized military training before its expeditions from Sevastopol to Chechnya. All these massive and systematic violations of Ukrainian legislation, the basic Ukrainian-Russian treaties on the Black Sea fleet of Russia, crimes consistent with the articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the egregious facts of interference in Ukraine's internal affairs have long given the Ukrainian State the legal basis for the immediate denunciation of the right to temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Ukraine. Meanwhile, officers of the Black Sea fleet of Russia illegally receive dual citizenship and are taking the lead of a number of pro-Russian organizations in Sevastopol, the Union Party of the Russian PSPI bloc. These organizations, acting under the flags of Russia, abuse the national symbols of Ukraine, call for secession, and engage in anti - state activities. The Ukrainian People’s Party requires the Ministry of Justice and the Henprocuratorship to cancel the registration of such parties as provided for in article 4 of the Law on the Uniting of Citizens. The Ukrainian People's Party requires parliamentary hearings on violations of Ukrainian legislation by the Black Sea fleet of Russia and the creation of an appropriate parliamentary commission of inquiry. In Ukrainian territory, including Crimea, Ukrainian legislation must operate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u22	Sergey Sobolev, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u23	Sobolev, the Reform and Order Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go back to the subject of the budget, because what happened yesterday during the voting of the draft decisions that were proposed as approval of the decision of the Committee on Budgets is very similar to that itchy that was in Ukraine before the presidential election. True, those who voted in favour of the 2005 draft budget made a hole of 32 billion dollars. Now we've gone beyond ourselves, even though we're not: the faction of the Reform and Order Party has not voted or approved these conclusions, because 73 billion dollars in the budget deficit of the total budget of 120 billion is a collapse that awaits the country already this year, and more in the following year. That is why the Reform and Order Party claims that in the case of the same decisions during the second reading, we will find ourselves in a situation where the state budget will be held hostage by another election campaign and we will be forced to re-examine the budget, those who will go to the next Parliament and form a government. That is why in today's situation, the Reform and Order Party considers it necessary to make a clear statement. First, an unacceptable refusal to reduce taxes in the government's draft budget. In fact, to this day, Parliament has counted only one of three tax cuts. Secondly, there will be no increase in the budget deficit, according to articles that have nothing to do with social programs that have nothing to do with pension reform programmes, but that put the state's budget into complete collapse. Thirdly, in fact, even in the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets, there was no proposal for disabled persons to protease the disabled, which would be understood as an increase in the budget deficit. But there are programs that cost one and a half billion dollars, two and two.7 billion dollars, which are going to go to bazaars, not to, in fact, pay the poor citizens of Ukraine for which the budget is being adopted. That is why the Reforms and Order Party has stated its clear position: if we prepare for the second reading of the budget in a version approved by the Budget Committee, we will not vote in favour of this budget and the factions that vote for it will be responsible. That's why it's a principle for us to reduce taxes, actually support by lowering credit rates for all sectors of the economy, which was set in the first version of the budget. And the key is the emergence of the contradictions that exist around the budget deficit, which is unacceptable at 16 percent, given to the actual session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u24	Mikhail Vasilovich Melniczuk. The faction of Soccer. After him, Igor Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u25	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear radio listeners! We have repeatedly stated from this rostrum that we are concerned about the preparation and consideration of the 2006 budget parliament. Yesterday the faction did not vote or support the committee's proposal. And you and I need to realize clearly that the 2006 election -- this is not the end of life. That after March 26, life would continue in Ukraine. And as it continues, it will depend on us, on the Parliament that has chosen this calling. So the faction once again claims that we will support the budget if there are 14 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. the agri-industrial complex, which will undoubtedly be budgeted for phased funding from 1 January 2006, under the Ukrainian Children of War Act. And that's about 6 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure Which is going to be up to 4 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Savings are expected for Ukrainian That there will be full funding for local self - government, not just for half a year’s wages. Of course, the calculations made by the Ministry of Education, Health, will be provided in the 2006 budget. We certainly understand what the government is saying about the lack of funds. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the case today. I would like you, parliamentarians, to know that the new imports of meat and food in 9 months 2005 accounted for $2.2 billion in duties and VAT. 15 percent paid — 326 million, 9 percent — 203 million dollars paid with a tax bill, 76 percent or so. Seven billion dollars have been paid off according to court decisions. We're not rich, are we? Someone can figure out if this could happen, and we're saying, "Contrabanda, stop!" for nine months now, and I'm told that green light burns long across Ukraine – "Contrabanda, come on!" because we live, we are in power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u26	Yes, please, Igor Jeremeyev, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u27	Statement by the MP of the People's Party. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the conclusions and proposals of the Budget Committee for the 2006 Draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. Two hundred and seventy national deputies voted for them. The National Party faction is grateful to the Budget Committee, which has taken a principled position and has taken our demands into account. So today we're informing our voters that the draft budget is being sent to the government for the first time in Ukraine, in Ukraine's new history, foresees a commitment to the development of the APC's economy in terms of 10 percent of public expenditure. In doing so, we broke the ideologies of the remaining principle to the village. And we say we're going to stand on this. The faction also made sure that the capital cost of road construction in the main asset project would be allocated to the gasification of the population. Rather, these articles worked on the principle of a general boiler that allowed officials to manipulate government funds uncontrollably. Third. An extremely important point is the substantial increase of nearly 6 billion subsidies to local budgets. But we're raising the budget again. Our faction is deeply concerned about the position of the government. Yesterday’s statement by the Ministry of Finance indicated that the government did not want to accept the changes and proposals voted by Parliament. People need to know that the faction of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the APC did not vote in favour of the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budgets. One thing to do is to drive under the walls of the Ministry of Pigs, another to really work for the interests of the state and the village. And one more thing. On Thursday, the Supreme Council will consider changes to the State Budget this year. Today, there are no more than 700 million dollars in wage areas. Subsidies are generally failed by the government. For example. The APC is funded by 12 percent. Investments in technology objects by 50 percent In July, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litvin, a working group was set up to study the situation on the spot and come to the following conclusions. The minimum amount of education subsidies is underestimated 1.5 times. Normatives for medical deductions are twice. We've drawn conclusions to the government. But there is no response. We reiterate that the People's Party faction is ready to help the government fix the situation and create a development budget, not a diet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u28	Yes, dear colleagues, you and I have exchanged pains. There's more questions coming up, let me put them out. Tamari of Proskurat's Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the violation of the constitutional and legal rights of persons with disabilities of the 2nd group of Korshuno and Pavlovski in solving the socio-economic problems of low-income families. Male, Yeshchenko, Bondarczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the purposes of the management of VAT “Cherkaske Hymvolocno” to stop a number of productions and to shorten the employees of enterprises, delay in payment of wages, liquidation of the social base of the enterprise. Ally Alexandrovsky to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the non-admission of illegal alienation of state property at the address: the city of Kharkiv, the street of Poltavska cesta, seven. Two factions of break are required here. But I am not convinced of the fairness of the signature of the leader of our Ukraine. So please let me get the original signature, then we'll figure it out. Now there are dissatisfied answers to parliamentary requests. Please, Oleg Pullibok. Behind him is Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u29	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorary colleagues, on October 7, 2005, the Supreme Council of Ukraine sent a request to Henprocuror of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior and the head of the Security Service of Ukraine for a violation of a criminal case of famine in 1932-1933, which was recognized by the genocide of the Ukrainian people, a crime to which no period of time has been applied. Despite the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has recognized the famine of 1932-1933 as an act of genocide of the Ukrainian people, that the total extermination of millions of Ukrainian farmers by artificial hunger has become a deliberate terrorist act of the political system of Stalinism, according to the reply of the Deputy Security Service of Ukraine Mudrov, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Medvedzk, did not find any legal basis for a procedural solution to the stated issue under the current legislation. That is, the genocide committed by the Communist regime of the USSR against the Ukrainians, according to them, does not fall within the scope of the Convention on the Nonapplication of the Age of Prewar Crimes and Crimes against Humanity of November 26, 1968, ratified by the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 25, 1969. The reference to the Criminal Code of the USSR since 1927, in which there has been no responsibility for genocide, is not simply evil; it is criminal. Nevertheless, the German Criminal Code did not contain articles on genocide, Holocaust, and crimes against humanity and war crimes, but the courts did and were punished. They were not tried under German law, but the position of the BSS, the Henprocuratory, in response to my request, effectively challenges the decisions of the Nuremberg Tribunal and is signed in accordance with this convention, which is detrimental to Ukraine's national security. I think that the position of the S.B.U. and the Henprocuratorship is motivated by fear that Communists and hebists feel in connection with the imminent just punishment for their crimes. And that's 20 million murdered Ukrainians. However, I would like to remind you that these red - eyed crimes, which have been drinking blood from the Ukrainians for 70 years, are not breathing freely either. And they don't have an age. So yesterday I registered the draft law on the Prohibition of Communist Ideology in Ukraine, number 8364 of 1.11.2005. I hope that the Supreme Council will appreciate and consider this law even during this session, especially as it refers to the definition of the Communist Party by a criminal organization, the prohibition of ideology and the propaganda of communism and the black book of communism. I hope we'll pass this law. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u30	Vladimir Puzakov. He'll be followed by Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u31	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština With the arrival of the orange authorities everywhere in the Kirovograd region, a campaign of political persecution is being carried out with the aim of overthrowing a man on the wrong side of the barricade. These cases are dealt with quickly, without delay, and dozens of criminal cases involving banditry and murder have been covered with dust and have not been investigated for years. In this regard, I am calling on the General Prosecutor's Office today to investigate a criminal case that has been delayed by heartless investigators for two years. On this issue, I have made parliamentary inquiries, but, as always, our organs can promise nicely and do nothing, and the truth remains on the side of the one with the big pocket. On that point, two young mothers — Shishitska Nadia and Poorak Olga — lost their sons in the guilt of a drunk driver, the Ford driver, who, in violation of the rules of the street movement, allowed for an attack on young people. At the scene of the tragedy, the young men were killed, and the driver himself tried to escape by throwing the boys killed into the trench. But I couldn't escape. The DAI officers went to the scene of the adventure. All was recorded, the materials were carefully studied by the investigating authorities, and they were to be directed to the revitalization of the pretrial investigation. But just a paradox, for two years now, as a young man's death is being investigated, the killer walks free, and the investigation is being delayed for what reasons. The Bezreel himself has been constantly obstructing the investigation, and three investigators and lawyers have changed after his complaints. On the part of the victim’s family, there is constant pressure and intimidation. The criminal case is again aimed at further investigation, a replacement of the court’s composition. Court hearings are constantly torn apart on various occasions, and the accused is not brought to trial, and the lawyer is absent. How many can mothers who have lost their children be tortured? It's just inhuman suffering for these women. Where, then, is this just and humane court promised by Mr. Yushchenko and his minions? I appeal to the Attorney General's Office and demand that I intervene immediately and verify the illegal removal of the criminal case from further consideration. And I would like to list this as a re-deputy request to the Attorney General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u32	Please, Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u33	Fifth constituency, Communist Party faction, Victor Mironenko. Respected compatriots, as the author of the decree on the creation of a single economic space adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 May 2003, and a member of the Communist faction who voted in favour of the Act on the Establishment of a Single Economic Area of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, wish to draw your attention to the fact that this ratification law is not actually implemented on the fault of the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko and the Government of Timoshenko. Taking into account the interest of most people in eliminating the customs borders between the brotherly States, the interest in addressing the pension problem of Ukrainian citizens working in Russia, the restoration of profitable economic ties, the growth of the economy, the rise in the standard of living of the people, I sent requests to the Government of Yehanurov for a referendum to be held during the 2006 elections on the establishment of the Customs Union of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. Regrettably, in response to my request, it is stated that the policy of the Government of Timoshenko, which has impeded the establishment of the Customs Union of Brotherly States, will in fact continue. The reference to a free trade zone is repeated, although every competent person understands that it cannot be established without the establishment of a customs union, as any regional association of States requires a common customs position with respect to non-unification countries. Otherwise there will be no merger, the free trade area will not function effectively. Respectable compatriots! This is evidenced by world experience, which has been repeatedly recalled by Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia to President Yushchenko, but is heeding U.S. recommendations that are not interested in eliminating customs borders between brotherly States. The fact that this position was not accidentally taken by the U.S. authorities indicates that the Yushchenko faction, Timoshenko and the Socialists of the Frost did not vote in favour of the Law establishing the EP. I hope that every citizen of our country who is aware of the need to address the acute problem of the retirement of Ukrainian citizens working in Russia, the restoration of Ukraine's economic ties, the growth of the economy, the rise in the standard of living of our poor people will not be able to deceive you during another important election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine. Given all this, without the unification of the efforts of many opposition parties, it is not possible for the bloc to eliminate the customs borders between the brotherly States. I call upon all the political, public forces that truly seek to express the interests of the people to join efforts to hold a referendum during the 2006 elections on the establishment of the Customs Union of Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. Kazakhstan. The right of people to exercise their will must be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u34	Yes, the factions of our Ukraine and the People's Movement want a break. Yeah, who's there, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u35	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement. Honorable colleagues, national deputies, do not stop the facts of unceremonious interference in Ukraine’s internal affairs. Yes, on October 19th of this year, the leader of the Family faction, the deputy of the Russian Duma Glazieryev, addressed the Head of the Supreme Council on this matter. How we need to live in Ukraine. This letter was introduced by Vladimir Mikhailovich to the heads of the MP factions, apparently so that the patriotic and democratic forces that care for Ukraine's national interests would respond well to the advice of our Northern colleague. The presumptuous recommendations outlined in this letter are indignant and are a fact of direct intervention in the internal affairs of Ukraine, which our neighbor allows himself to do tendingly. Thus, Mr. Glazieryev decided to talk about the World Trade Organization, and more specifically, that the conditions under which Ukraine is about to join the organization were not in line with the national interests of Ukraine and, paradoxically, the interests of Russia, too. [[Think about it!]] In the same letter, the author claims that there is a regime of free trade in Ukrainian-Russian relations with a small list of restrictions. Furthermore, it is frightening that if Ukraine joins the WTO, it will not be possible to implement plans for the EP and preserve the regime of free trade. As for the free trade regime, first of all, do not hang noodles on our ears, gentlemen of the Russian Duma. This regime, which was approved by the Inter-Governmental Agreement of 24 June 1993, does not work because the Russian side constantly introduces additional removals and restrictions, initiates anti-dumping investigations. And if it's not about the regime, it's about the free trade zone, especially in the EPP, it's about the situation that you want to shed tears from. By the end of 1994, a free trade agreement had been signed within the SND, but it did not work because the Russian side that voted most about the free trade zone remained the only country that had not ratified the Free Trade Agreement. Therefore, we do not need to be fed the promise of a free trade zone within the framework of the EP, because we all know that the EP was designed not for free trade, but for the great rainstorm where the past regime succeeded in bringing national interests to Ukraine. In this regard, first of all, I would like to hear the reaction of the Chief of the Supreme Council to these friendly advices of a Russian colleague. Secondly, we require urgent consideration in the near future of the Soviet Bills to make Ukraine a member of the WTO this year. And finally, third. If Mr. Glazier is so active in telling us that the Ukrainian authorities are doing something wrong, we are moving in the right direction. And finally, questions to those representatives of the political forces in the session hall who are opposed to the entry of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u36	Yes, dear colleagues, we've been talking for an hour 47 minutes. So much has been said that there is a desire to give answers. Please sign up, three minutes. Please explain. Dibenko. Behind him is Ratushniak. But don't name your last name, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u37	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko Dear citizens of Ukraine! A few minutes ago, you and I witnessed another time trying to throw away a famous anti-communist bone in order to distract us from today's famine, from the nibble in today's government and its inability to solve the most pressing problems of the people of work. I won't say anything about the person who did this, because she's long known for her xenophobic and antihuman not only claims but also actions. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that on another occasion, the theory has been confirmed that those who start fighting communism, those who start fighting their own people, will receive the answer of fascism. We saw this visual confirmation today. Dear citizens of Ukraine, Fascism will not pass! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u38	Sergey Ratushniak. Igor Yukhnowsky is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u39	I'm not just talking to MPs, I'm talking to radio people. A very strategic, sharp question lies before our nation. An entrance to the WTO, which will bring us eight billion, will take millions of jobs away from us, and will destroy sectors such as the agrarian sector, the light industry, the electronic industry, the shipbuilding, the chemical industry, the metallurgy. We have five million people who will be unemployed in the first six months! And those, I'm sorry, the halls of the West that drag us there, they have a lot of money to feed their children. In these five million jobs, there will be no need to feed their Ukrainian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u40	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u41	Yukhnowsky, “Our Ukraine”. The money we received as a result of the privatisation of the Crevice plant should, after all, be focused mainly on investment and innovation policy in the state, particularly in terms of the development of the scientific sphere, the transition of Ukraine to the knowledge economy. In view of this, it is extremely important to receive the investment that is expected by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine to create the opty-wolf academic link “Kharkov-Kyiv-Lviv” and Rava-Russia, and to connect with the Polish system “Pioner” and the European system “Joant”. The creation of such a high - power optical electronic link will automatically join Ukraine into the European community at the highest scientific level. On the other hand, creating a powerful one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, we will consider the matter. In fact, two words were written about the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council was addressed here. I think there's a lot of fear about what someone's writing to, and I don't see it personally. And you don't need to see it. You also have the opportunity and you know that you write letters, greetings, invite guests who may not support society. It's a world practice and nothing here. For example, I personally do not see interference in the internal affairs of turning a member of another state over to the deputies of another state. This is not interference. This is a continuation of the dialogue. And let's use that and explain the truth in the dialogue. It's about the Soviet laws. Please see how the voices of those who scream the most about the need to adopt the laws of the Soviets are voting. And then everything will be in place. Those who say they do not want the laws of the Soviets confirm by vote that they do not want them. What we're looking at is against our national manufacturer. And those who say they're behind the 100 and then don't vote, please don't put shadows on the fence. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We're talking about ratification. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on Economic, Industrial and Technological Cooperation. Deputy Minister of Economy Brezny Andriy Viktorovich. Please, let's, if there are, questions. Any questions? You don't? Shall we vote? There are questions, please, Andrew. Sign up for three minutes. FROM THE hall, we are written down for discussion!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u43	I'm not interested in the discussion. I'm interested in the questions. Please sign in. Please, Anisimov, three minutes behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u44	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I have a question with the distinguished rapporteur regarding the bill you have submitted. It enables the NATO forces to use the infrastructure and mobile composition of our aviation to carry out their tasks at any point in the world. How's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u45	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u46	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u47	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders.” Dear reporter. I want to ask you what the previous agreement cancels, which was made between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Lithuanian Federation? Is it only the motive that Latvia has acquired EU membership since 1 May 2004 that this motive is that we now have to rework everything? And why do we have no financial and economic justification for these documents or for others? You know how many contracts we've made, and then we have holes in the budget. I'd like to hear from you what financial and economic justification is there, or would you like to see when the project is being implemented? That there are no negative points, or that there are positive points, which, yes, in money, will cost the Ukrainian people. I'd like to take this into account in further work and give you an answer now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u48	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, you are right, since 1 May 2004, the entire competence of the Latvian government regarding the regime of trade with Ukraine has been transferred to the European Union, the European Commission. The issue of trade-economy cooperation between the Republic of Latvia and Ukraine is now being resolved through Brussels, but in order to leave the positive that we have been working in relations between the two countries, this framework document is being signed, which allows us to determine the priorities of cooperation in the field, and to create a consultative inter-State body to deal with industrial co-operation, economic cooperation, prioritization and problem-solving issues. There is no negative consequence of signing this framework document and it gives us the opportunity to be more fruitful at the intergovernmental level, even if the trade authority is transferred to Brussels, to solve the issues, many issues that are useful at the bilateral level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u49	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear reporter, first of all, I'd like to point out that you and you must be, and we all understand that somehow less and less attention is being given to such laws as ratification. I mean, really, we're finally starting to consider these ratifications, to discuss, but nevertheless, I agree with the previous statement on financial and economic justification. Because whenever he's gone, there's always a lot of national MPs who want to, let's say, use it. I don't want to use the word "preseculate" to say that this is going to cost us, that we have to finance it, and that the document that I received from the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine is clearly stated that, for example, by air transport, Ukraine only benefits from the fact that this agreement will be ratified. So I would ask very much to give the people’s deputies the full volume of documents. If this volume of documents is wide, make a statement in such a way that it avoids and makes any speculation about it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u51	Well, that's probably a wish. That's right. Yes, please, yes, you have a deal, it says everything in the contract. Please, for 30 seconds I owed Solomatina, passed on. I didn't give him the word, I didn't give him the word. Please don't scream because it won't help.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u52	Yuri Solomatin, head of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Berezowski-Jushchenko. Dear reporter, would you please tell me if the ratification of this agreement would contribute to the tracking of 21 million dollars from Latvia to certain recipients in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u53	Dear People’s Deputy. Once again, I would like to say that this is a framework agreement that allows governments to resolve all issues on a bilateral basis in the area of trade, economic, financial cooperation. So I'm sure it'll help.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u54	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Chibka's microphone, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u55	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u56	I'm sorry, I'm making a note of Deputy Chubarov, who's breaking up a normal session. Please take a look at the transcript. The national deputy Anisimov spoke for 29 seconds and gave the floor to Solomon’s question. Unfortunately, at the time, I was distracted, unoriented, and corrected my mistake. Check the transcript, and do not rehearse, for this will not help you. Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u57	Fast, socialist faction. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to point out from the committee that the committee supported this bill in one voice, there was no comment. And I want to emphasize that this is a framework agreement, it's always been an international practice. When a framework agreement is signed, there is no accounting for financial security because there is virtually no financial security. Then, when certain agreements are drawn up that are in the field of law, there is calculation. As you can see, this agreement states that there are plans for cooperation in about 19 fields, beginning with light industry and ending with cooperation in education. And what's going to be created is an intergovernmental commission where its tasks are presented. This is when a particular agreement is developed in some field, then there will be calculation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u58	Thank you. Thank you for the reminder. Once again, dear colleagues, really, if you have this agreement, it should have been, it should have been distributed, there's nothing concrete, sorry, there's just an indication that there's a possibility of cooperation in such areas. And in order to improve this cooperation, we need to create an intergovernmental commission between the two states. That is, there is no specific obligation of any other party to substantive cooperation in this agreement, so there is no economic justification, no benefit, and no added document. Yes, shall we vote? Discussion. Okay. Okay. We're going to have a discussion. I'd like to talk to you, please. Give me 12 minutes. Carmazin, it's got a Hare on it. It is the person who will sign up, either first or second, who always insists on the discussion. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u59	Adam Ivanovich, I'll give you these three minutes and I don't insist on discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u60	Thank you, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. We will remember that from the good side. John the Rabbit, please follow him, George Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u61	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. We are proposing to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on Economic, Industrial and Technological Cooperation. The faction of the Ukrainian National Party, Yuri Kostenko, will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. Our position is based on the following arguments. First, a very important condition for modernizing the Ukrainian economy is the creation of a mutually beneficial relationship between Ukraine and other nations. This is the approach to cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Latvia as set out in article 1 of the agreement. This article clearly states that the parties will want to develop and strengthen and diversify economic, industrial and technical cooperation on a mutually beneficial basis in all areas. The other one. The Ukrainian People's Party has always advocated public and business involvement in government decisions. This ideology is reflected in article 3 of the covenant, which refers to the creation of an intergovernmental commission. This article contains the following situation. The Intergovernmental Commission may invite business representatives to participate in the committee’s work. Our task is to ensure the continued presence of business structures in the work of an intergovernmental commission. Third. The Ukrainian People's Party is constantly proposing measures to improve the conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is this business that is the most active in creating a social medium-class version, a guarantee of democracy. The fifth article of the agreement identifies the promotion of small and medium -sized entrepreneurship, including participation in international exhibitions and fairs, as one of the main tasks of the intergovernmental commission. This article pays particular attention to cooperation with a view to protecting and protecting the environment and protecting consumers. Our faction has always been most active in this activity. Finally, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party supports the ratification of this agreement because it is made without undue ideologies, through the projection of historical connections, and so on, which has become a regular feature of the agreements with the countries of the SND. This agreement can be a model to some extent for making similar agreements with other States, and this agreement is also beneficial to the Ukrainian side because it creates conditions for deepening economic cooperation with a country that is a member of the European Union, so the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the ratification of this agreement. And the questions I heard to the reporter were that many did not just read this agreement. Then let us be more responsible for our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u62	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u63	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there are two sides to each contract, lines that can be seen from the outside, and tails. Our colleague has already outlined the side of this agreement and should not even be denied because of what he has been teaching. And I wanted to draw our common attention to the backs of this agreement. You and I know that the Latvian Republic of the former Baltic Republic is one that shows examples of professional behavior so far in relation to the remains of the Soviet population that remain in the territory of this republic. And I declare my loyalty to those who fought in the Great War of Homeland against their own people, against the Soviet people, and against the Soviet armies of the Soviet army. It is on the territory of this republic that the Essenes now have monuments installed. They are the ones marching on the streets of Riga’s capital. And I don't want our country, our Ukraine, our country, to maintain relations with those nations that under NATO's umbrella are now demonstrating disrespect for that great history of our former history, when the Soviet people, including the Ukrainian people, and the Latvian people side by side, have defended our country, a great country against the fascist invasion and liberated our territories from the Fascist invasion, and together they have arisen, liberated European countries, and reached Berlin. So I, on one side, am satisfied with the Deputy Minister's reply that, as if this treaty that we have to ratify will help us to detect the flow of dirty money from Latvia to Ukraine on, so-called, the promotion of democracy and the development of, on the other hand, civil society, and on the other hand, I am as a politician and as a Soviet person, and as a Soviet communist, a Communist of Ukraine, I cannot agree that we should establish and strengthen relations with countries like the Republic of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u64	Oleg Zarubinski, please. He's got Levcun on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u65	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! We all understand that Parliament is not only a higher representative body, not only a legislative body, but also a political body, and therefore it is clear that when we look at some of the issues, there is a desire, there is an effort based on the prism of political interests, political preferences, sympathy and antipathies to deal with some of the issues. But, dear friends, let's agree that there is a certain culture in interstate relations. We cannot blame the Supreme Council of Ukraine and actually offend a country, regardless of our political sympathy and antipathy, once again. What is more, when it comes not even to humanitarian history, not to the history of our relations, but to Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, it is here that the relationship between the Ukrainian people and the Latin people, between Latvia and Ukraine, was always not only cloudless, but also constructive. Let's remember that the ancestors of thousands of years ago made their way here between the crows and the Greeks. Let us recall that from Dougawa, only tens of miles [10 km] are linked to the Ukrainian Dniprom of Latvians and Ukrainians. So let's take these weavings, maybe natural for political struggles, but unnatural for interstate relations. Moreover, I cannot agree that this, for example, covenant can be a model. She can't be a role model, she's a framework person, she's a respectable person! So this is the typical type of economic cooperation agreement that Ukraine has already concluded and will conclude. And you and I, if smart people are to ratify with all countries, regardless of our political preferences. I propose, and I urge my colleagues to step aside for some time from the electoral struggle. We'll be living in the world after March, and we'll have neighbors, and we'll have friendly countries after March 2006. Let's not spoil these historical, profitable economic, industrial, scientific and technical relationships that have been made up of for centuries. I don't think we have any argument, believe me, any economic, political, mental, cultural arguments to avoid ratifying this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u66	Yes, please, Vladimir Levcun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on technical, industrial and technical cooperation is one step towards Euro integration. It clearly creates new opportunities for the economic, scientific and technological development of our state. We can talk for a long time, but in general it's a big plus for Ukraine, so we propose to support ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u68	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u69	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I urge you, especially the Communists, not to politicize any question and not to use any question to cloud the situation. This is a typical framework agreement that is of a declarative nature. It's a declaration of intent, nothing special, but it creates a legislative field for relations with one of the countries, and it's convenient for Ukraine. Why not? I think it's over-politicization, it's inappropriate. By the way, I'd like to ask Deputy Solomon why he didn't mention the Latvian shooters who did. Perhaps it is worth making a deal with Latvia. I would like to ask Deputy Solomon if he would maintain economic relations with Germany. If we go out of his logic, we may not be able to maintain any relationship with Germany. Well, I think it's really inappropriate. I respect the position, the ideology -- all of these things -- but every excess looks insolent, mildly speaking. So I think we now have all the necessary and sufficient grounds to ratify the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on economic, industrial and technical cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u70	Question completed. Let's be clear. Kostinuk, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u71	Thank you. The National Movement of Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! The agreement encourages contacts between the business circles of their countries, promotes small and medium-sized enterprises, international exhibitions, and so on and so forth. But remember the story. About 15 years ago, Ukraine and Latvia were in the same union, and then, 15 years ago, average wages, for example, whether a doctor or a teacher had roughly the same size, and pensions were about the same. Today, Latvia’s average salary is five times higher than in Ukraine. Today, Latvia’s average pension is five times higher than in Ukraine. Why? Because in Latvia at the time, the national authority that came into power cared for the national interests of the State and cared for the people. In Ukraine the authorities were stealing from Ukraine. And the brightest example today is a year ago the sale of the "Criminals".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u72	Thank you. Have a seat. Well, no three minutes, no. Bogdan, no. Have a seat, please. Have a seat, please. Solomatine It's a line. I repeat: he had a minute to perform. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u73	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, honourable radio listeners, I would like to point out that we Communists have always understood the difference between nations and governments. Nations are eternal, and governments come and come. We Communists have always been internationalists, we have always advocated the friendship of the nations. But we've always been against the fascist governments, no matter where they were rooted: Latvia, Germany, and Japan, Spain, or any other country. And the Latvian arrows that helped the Russian Empire and then in Soviet Russia to protect national power, Soviet power, and great thanks. And it's embedded in those monuments and those tapes that no one can.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u74	My monitor, thank God, is clean, so this one. So we're going to vote. Everyone's been told. I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole as a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on economic, industrial and technical cooperation, registration number 0286. Please vote. [[12:17:14]] For 265 The law is passed. The factions, please. Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 18, People's Party - 36, "Our Ukraine" - 38, Block Timoshenko - 36, Socialists - 20, Ukrainian People's Party - 25, Social Democrats - 1, "Forward, Ukraine!" - 18, "Trust of the People" - 11, "Reforms and Order" - 14, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 13, National Movement - 14, "One Ukraine" - 7, non-fractional - 14. Draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Command of the United NATO Armed Forces on Transformation and the Supreme Command of the United NATO Armed Forces in Europe on the use of Ukrainian strategic transport aviation in NATO operations and training. Shall we vote or discuss? Yes, please sign up for the question. Anatoly Stepanovich, please, on the rostrum. Yes. Please show me on the monitors. Three minutes, Onechuk, please. I can't see that. Yes, please, Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u75	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, would you please tell us that the use of Ukrainian strategic and transport aviation is part of what operations? Well, the language of learning is like this, and what kind of surgery? Then, is it just a transport operation or is it about other types of aviation? If it's a strategic transport aircraft, what does it mean? So we have fear or will we not use Ukrainian aviation, in some military activity, for example, how did this have its place under the disgrace of the World in Yugoslavia when peaceful villages and cities were bombed?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. Dear National Deputies! Dear Lord Chairman! So, first of all, I'll start with your last question. In no way is this about anything other than transport aviation. It's not about the exterminators or the bombers or the helicopters of the military air force -- this is not the subject of this memo. The other one. It's not absolutely, I want everyone to read the text, to participate in any operation, it's about using the potential of Ukrainian aviation, and it's about airplanes like: "Dream" AN-225, AN-124 "Ruslan", IL-76, TU-154, AN-22, AN-12, AN-74, AN-26, I hope, AN-70, which we will all raise together. This is the contribution of Ukraine and this visiting card of Ukraine that gives us a sense of pride for our aviation and which is now being used effectively. If we talk about what kind of operations, for example, is now a humanitarian operation with Pakistan's help. There's a peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, Liberia, any other. I would like to say that this document explicitly states that in each individual case, Ukraine is making its own decision whether to provide its own transport aircraft or not. If the question is politically sensitive, if there is a sense in this room that some NATO operation is not in the interests of Ukraine, then the refusal to provide our transport component will be accordingly. And the last. I mean, language doesn't work. It's more or less about military-transport aviation. It's about Antonov's ANDDK, which has 13 units of technology, about the Ukrainian air transport company that has the right planes. And this is a serious economic gain, first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u77	Yes, please, Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u78	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, the faction “Our Ukraine” will support this bill. I'd like your explanation on such matters. First. How much is it financially and economically advantageous for Ukraine to use strategically transport aviation? And the second. How ready are the NATO countries in the NATO negotiations to cooperate with us on the production of AN-70 and its joint use for joint weapons for the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. First of all, I'd like to say, and this is directly written in the text of the memo. This is not just about NATO 226 countries. This is about countries participating in the Partnership for Peace programme, including Belarus, Russia, Georgia, and Azerbaijan, and Uzbekistan, and Kyrgyzstan, and even Mongolia now want to join. This is much broader – it is 45 countries, which after the conclusion of this framework memorandum, after ratification can join on a bilateral basis and ask Ukraine to provide them with our transport aviation. I mean, it's much wider. And these are not just NATO members, I stress once again, but all partner countries, all countries of the former Soviet Union, and even more. That's part one. The other one. Whether it's convenient for us or not. Of course it's convenient. Because this is going to be done on a pay basis. In addition to cases where Ukraine will determine if it considers it necessary to contribute to an operation. For example, we are now providing assistance to Pakistan by delivering material supplies, medicines, and so forth. But another decision may be made to supply these goods, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan or Moldova, which do not have a transport component, and Ukraine’s contribution will be to provide a few free flights, perhaps. But this will be decided by the government. As far as the question of the future AN-70 is concerned, I'd say honestly. We have to count on our own strength. And these budgets are being invested in the draft budget. Let's talk about two planes for us next year. And what's involved with cooperation with NATO countries and NATO and not NATO in the use of this aircraft is a very separate issue. I would normally like to have more effort here by those who produce these planes, and therefore by state structures such as the Ministry of Industrial Policy, the Ministry of Industry. And where the defense minister's talks raise these issues, my Russian colleague and I always ask questions to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u80	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Šibko Vitali Jakovic, please. Then Krutskov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u81	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Fast, socialist faction. The committee supported the bill by a majority. And there are some fears. So I'd like to express the committee's position that these fears may be impossible, and they'll depend on how we're going to track this situation. Because it's just that we've been working on a very permanent normative base that is working out our relationship with NATO today. I want to remind my distinguished colleagues that we have an agreement between the states parties to the North Atlantic Treaty. It's called the Partnership for Peace Program. Next. We have a charter on a special partnership between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization signed in 1997. We have a Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet and the headquarters of the Chief of Staff. And I also want to remind you of our contribution. This is the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts and the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the Basic Directions of Foreign Policy, which we voted with you here in 1993. I also recall that there were parliamentary hearings “Ukraine’s foreign policy as a tool for ensuring national interests in the state. Gains, realities and prospects.” I mean, if we analyze all these normative documents, this bill is not a violation of our work. That's the first one. And the second. I would like to say that the committee headed by Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov also agreed, but I made a comment. Such comments are, or comments, about adding to the content of this covenant. Ukraine's participation in each specific operation involving military transport and aviation is carried out in compliance with the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine, which regulates the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other States and the order of admission and conditions of residence in Ukraine of units of the armed forces of another State. I mean, if we vote on this app right now, all of these fears can be overturned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u82	Please, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, Head of the Committee on National Defence and Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, Vitali Jakovic, objectively reported on what our committee had done, stated that it was necessary to indicate when the memorandum was ratified that in each particular case the application of our aviation should follow the procedures established by our legislation. I'd like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues to this. What does this document mean? Well, first of all, there is no such concept in Ukraine as "strategic transport aviation". We have a kind of army like a military transport aircraft, so I don't know what this is about. That's the first one. The other one. We don't have to say here that everyone there can participate. It's about Ukraine's participation in aviation transport of technology and the special composition of NATO units potentially, NATO potentially to any point in the world in support of NATO operations during the peace period, in times of crisis and conflict, and in unforeseen and extraordinary situations. That is, the whole set of situations that could be in the world and which would predict NATO's participation in these operations could lead to Ukraine being involved in these conflicts without being a NATO member. And I want us to consciously think about that when we make decisions. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u84	I reported it. Adam Ivanovich, I can't talk. Yes, I have reported that the Committee has made a decision that may be ratified if this application is made. This decision was made unanimously. I wanted to say that. But as a national MP, I can't help but draw my colleagues' attention to these very important points that we're talking about. I'd like us to pay attention to that. This document is discriminatory with regard to the State of Ukraine. It was written. It could not be written by patriots and statesmen of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u85	Shall we discuss it? Yes, please, 15 minutes. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, prepare for John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable national MPs, distinguished compatriots, this bill is extremely difficult. I would like to tell you the truth by examining completely all of his legal, political and economic positions. I agree with the key thesis of Georgia Kruczkov that this document is discriminatory for Ukraine in all three positions, I emphasize in all three positions. First of all, the defined unequal relationship between Ukraine and NATO obligations: in the event of a change or postponement of Ukraine's flight, any costs associated with alternative transport are borne by Ukraine. [[Appendix one, Chapter seven, paragraph four]] The documents provide that NATO’s obligation to protect Ukrainian aircraft from lawsuits is not available. And we've already seen the court's lawsuits. Next. Chapter six. Providing services at the price level that are set for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And you know, for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, we're downgraded cynics, and they're reaching out for their own Armed Forces. Keep going. It says that these amounts do not pay taxes. How could that be? Where we're counting on not paying taxes. Next. Paragraph 6.3. I've got a deal in my hand. Ukraine’s price of NATO for all civilian services, support, should not be less favourable than the price Ukraine places on its Armed Forces. I ask, Mr. Secretary, where are the financial benefits where the financial benefits, if the price we set them, are no greater than our Armed Forces? So, dear friends, I would like to ask you, this agreement needs to be postponed and legalized, including chapter seven, where legal questions are written. I'll read it to you. Paragraph 7.7: “Ukraine will not present any claims to NATO and its officers, employees and representatives concerning any and all claims, liabilities, damage, damage and expenses related to any injury or death, or damage to any property arising or in any way related to the activity or omission of Ukraine or a representative in carrying out transport operations is difficult to carry out by air, or the provision of related services.” Next. Paragraph “b”: “Be it taxes, assemblies, insurance premiums or other payments to be paid by Ukraine to any government or commercial organisation.” and so on. And so, let me stress, from an economic point of view, it's a complete zero. From a political point of view, it's very preconceived, and from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u87	John the Rabbit. Behind him is Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u88	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a memorandum of understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers and the NATO governance structures on the use of Ukraine's strategic transport aviation in NATO operations and training, The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. Our position is that Ukraine should be an active subject of international security activities, that Ukrainians should seek on the international arena of friends, not create enemies, that the Ukrainian authorities should care for future markets for their military and industrial complex, not fold its activities. The ratification of the memorandum allows the relationship between Ukraine and NATO in the area of the use of Ukrainian transport aviation on a legal basis, i.e. on a basis that will eventually protect the interests of Ukrainian carriers. We know that NATO unites the most democratic European and American states and is the most powerful security structure on earth. This is a reality to be considered and used in national interests. I know that many of the deputies will not vote in favour of this memorandum and the reasons for such behaviour are their own electoral interests, not the interests of the state. But you, the distinguished national MPs, must understand that this is a position you are ruining the prospect of Ukrainian aviation. There is hope, however, that most of this room are statesmen and that you will support the ratification of this document. What is the point in this memo? The memorandum sets out policies and procedures for the use and use of Ukrainian strategic transport aviation. This is a framework document that provides for Ukraine's selection of the NATO operation for which Ukraine will provide its aviation. That is, Ukraine has the right, according to chapter two of the memorandums, to refuse to serve NATO in operations that conflict with Ukraine's national interests. Thus, the specific conditions for the use of Ukrainian aviation will be agreed separately, in individual agreements. The ratification of this memorandum will finally make it possible for Ukraine to obtain an acceptable price for the use of Ukrainian aircraft. It is not a secret that Ukrainian peacemaking is quite cheap, for the Ukrainian authorities, including Parliament, and you, the screamers, have not strengthened such activities with an effective legal base. By adopting this memorandum, we will put an end to this shameful policy of power. I want to go to the factions that have already voted in favour of such documents, especially I want to go to the faction of the Regions, because this deal was signed when Janukovic was Prime Minister of the Government, and today you don't want to vote, that means you're changing what you think about yourself, about your places, and about Ukrainian aviation. This is true of those who seem to care for the future of Ukraine. Don't fool people, be consistent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u89	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Zarubin Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u90	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Your Honor, I have in my hands the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. It refers to chapter 9 that the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic solemnly declares its intention to become a permanent neutral state in the future, which does not participate in military blocs and adheres to three nonnuclear principles. And in the end. The Declaration is the basis for the new Constitution and laws of Ukraine. And a year later, in August 1991, the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this session hall adopted an act proclaiming Ukraine's independence and said: “The Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic solemnly proclaims Ukraine’s independence by implementing the Declaration of State Sovereignty. And in order to confirm this act, on December 1, 1991, a Republican referendum was held to confirm Ukraine's declaration of independence.” On December 1, 1991, this referendum took place. He asked: “Do you confirm the act of declaring Ukraine’s independence? ” Eighty-five percent of the citizens came to the referendum. They took part in the vote and said yes, 90 percent. We're going to multiply these two numbers -- and we're going to get 76 percent with you -- that is, the qualified majority of Ukrainian citizens said, "Yes, to be Ukraine permanently off-block, neutral, non-nuclear state." Now, who are these guys that are bringing us to NATO? President Yushchenko was trusted by only 40 percent of the citizens. 77 percent came to the polling stations and 52 percent voted for it. Only 40 percent supported this political regime. People who are good, on what basis are you taking such anti-government action?Oh, my God! That's why I declare: you act against the will of the Ukrainian people, you betray the ideals of Ukrainian independence! You go against the will of the people and serve NATO and Uncle Sam. Get out of the orange. The political regime! Shame on you forever!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u91	Oleg Zarubinski. Prepare Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u92	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, there's manipulation, there's mystification. In this case, it's a hoax. I also have in my hands the Declaration on Ukraine's State Sovereignty, and I open it and read it. By the way, it was adopted by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic on July 16, 1990, which is part of the Soviet Union and, in its composition, clearly what social relations are. Here, indeed, is that the Ukrainian RSR – I stress, the honourable, not Ukraine, but the Ukrainian RSR – is “declaring its intention to become a permanent neutral state in the future”. I think there's a lot of people in our room who used to talk about getting married, but then not getting married. Obviously, it is in principle different things: trying to get married and getting married. And here I have the Ukrainian Act of Independence. And it has already been said that, as a result of the deadly danger that prevailed over Ukraine, I emphasize, over Ukraine, in connection with the coup d’état of the Soviet Union. continue to follow the text. But now it's not about things as emotional and as fun as they seem. It's about very specific and pragmatic things. Today we are invited to use what we have. And we don't have much, let's face it, we can use it as competitive products. And when it comes to airplane construction, and when all our esteemed patriots talk about what Ukraine has to do on airplane construction, that we have great aircraft, that we don't have the ability to use them, and that's really true. And you know what the situation is with AN-70, and you know who doesn't allow us to move on to the external markets. We are asked: “Come on, dear ones. Let's get our strategic aviation going." It seems to me that, as with the consideration of the ratification agreement with the Republic of Latvia, we have no right here to consider this because of the prism of the current and perhaps even the successive interests of our own but internal parties. And one more moment, taking advantage of what I have the opportunity to do, I would like to stress once again that this memorandum does not guarantee the use of Ukrainian strategic transport aviation in any NATO operation. Similarly, and this is a key phrase, about which the minister, by the way, said, in the same way Ukraine leaves behind the right to refuse NATO's request. And there's no need for any comments. All of this must be done according to Ukrainian law. So let us not engage in manipulations or hoaxes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u93	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u94	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear voters, Your Honor! Like many voters, I was shocked that Julia Timoshenko, as Prime Minister, had submitted a similar bill to the Supreme Council. It was hoped that Yuri Yehanurov would call him off. But it was not what it was supposed to be. Viktor Yushchenko, Yuri Yehanurov, was allowed to travel all over Ukraine and to agitate instead of withdrawing. Here the minister tells us great anecdotes about what would be good for us if we were in this alliance. But we remember how we, our planes were arrested and what came out of it. I admire and support my companions in factions who faithfully said: “We are an outside country to which we should be drawn today, supporting us by going to NATO, and by trying to do so in part, we are practically trading Ukraine. The Company's faction will not vote in favour of this ratification, it betrays national interests, it leads to another loss of human life, the loss of military technology, the cooling of relations with Russia. Some of our patriots may not understand what the words “participation in NATO operations and training” mean” is the prospect of participating in military conflicts. We're the ones with the cannons! And Ukraine's territory is a doorway! Or do we want to help the Alliance's owners distribute narcotics as it was in the Balkans, or maybe some want to transport Bush's "scissors" through Ukraine! I would like to remind our forgetful politicians that NATO has never advocated the preservation of any national state, but only refers to the promotion of values such as human rights. Do you, government officials, the President, finally all oranges, really believe in the humanity of views, and the politics of the bloody military alliance, or are you fully dependent? We all know that NATO is in favour of expanding the living space because its activity is marked and it is not in the exercise of teaching, it is harassment, it is in the free passage of planes. Please tell us from the minister's report today, how many planes have flown over Ukraine this year? How much did our execution cost? What is the responsibility between the invaders and the Ukrainian authorities and so forth? Who will be responsible for everything when tomorrow, indeed, our technology, our military will be involved in other conflict situations similar to the Iraqi affair and many others. So I call on this bill not to vote in any way. We and our voters need to know, I think we should publish all the heroes that support this bill today. The voters should know that the one who voted is the name of those who travel abroad year after year have some dividends that have long been sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u95	Yes, the discussion is over. School, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u96	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, first of all, I'd like to, I'm not going to deny the flames, it's all very well, but a lawyer from the Supreme Council's rostrum led the Ukrainian public astray. I would like to read chapter 6, Financial language, paragraph 6.3. The price Ukraine sets. NATO, for all civilian services, should not be less favourable than the price that Ukraine assigns to its armed forces. It is less favorable to understand the meaning of that word, that is, it cannot be lower, but it can only be higher at the price that is to be set. It's totally normal. So I want you to understand that. This is clear and clear in this, so that clarity and clarity can be found in this matter. I'm sorry. And the next. I understand, of course, that huge profits bring us the presence of the Black Sea fleet in Crimea, and this contributes to non-locking. Because the Black Sea fleet, of course, is so mythical because we don't see it and we don't feel it financially. Because it only brings damage to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u97	Yes, now, please, Kostinuk insisted one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u98	The National Movement of Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council has already ratified a document in 2004 to ensure the support of the NATO operation signed by Ukraine on 9 July 2002 by the previous authorities. I'm the one who's talking to the regions. We have to be consistent. The Ukrainian State must be consistent and then the regions voted in favour of the document. The ratification of this document is beneficial for Ukraine. Because it's using Ukrainian-transport aviation. Because it's not going to be a cost-effective use of transport aviation at the appropriate cost. Because it's an experience of the world's standards of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Because this is Ukraine's participation in peacekeeping operations. Either way, this ratification is convenient for Ukraine. Both the National Movement of Ukraine and the faction “Our Ukraine” will support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u99	Dear colleagues. But Manchulenko asked me to give my word to the minister. Please, Manchulenko, follow him Cherniak, then Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u100	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian National Party Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The question that we are currently considering is extremely important for Ukraine. If we want Ukrainian aviation, including military transport, to develop properly, we have to think about how this is going to happen. In order for it to develop, it must improve, it must fly. Those planes that we now have in Ukraine are able to carry out very many serious transportation operations and cargoes that need to be transported at a very long distance. If we don't do this now, then the same is our "An-124", the "Ruslan", the same "EL-76", the same "AN-12" or "AN-22" -- they won't be able to engage. In this way, Ukraine will lose a great deal. The National Security and Defence Committee has made a positive decision to support the ratifications of this memorandum. That's why I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u101	Nigger Volodymyr. Then Katusheva Zara.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u102	People's Honourable Chosen Ones. I urge you not to burn again. To consider matters in an objective way. Of course, there is no need to be zealous either before NATO or before the West or before the EU. But the national interests of Ukraine need to be defended. That's what the problem is. And from this point of view, let's look at all of what we're doing. Whether this contributes or does not contribute. Now it's about a specific bill. If we drift away from overpoliticizing it, what remains in solid sediment? First of all, this is going to contribute to the development of aviation in Ukraine. Secondly, it will help gain experience by the Ukrainian armed forces, passing school, going to European and Nativity standards. NATO exists. We can't cross it out, and we have to use this moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u103	Please, Zara Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u104	The Communist faction, Katusheva. It is sad and strange that we are again being tried to impose our views and to betray the interests of the Ukrainian people. In due course, I'd like to pass it on to my colleague, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u105	Bondarchuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u106	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are told that this memorandum will contribute to the development of transport aviation in Ukraine. Nope. What transport aviation needs today if the Government wants to do good. First, to resolve the conflict between the State Property Fund and one Kiev company that is currently in conflict so that our planes, the Ruslans, strategic transport aircraft cannot fly in the world, are arrested. And it was NATO that contributed to this case. Here's the question, it's really going to be a contribution to the development of aviation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u107	Yes, please, Anatoly Stepanovich. Three minutes and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u108	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear friends, I address those who know how to listen and know how to hear, absolutely without any politics, with normal peaceful arguments. First to the faction “Ukraine’s Regions”. It is true that the government led by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic authorized the defence minister to sign the memorandum by voting. And that was the right decision. The government of Timoshenko has brought, this is another political power, and the government of Yehanurov is now supporting. The three different political powers offer the same. And this is a testimony to the fact that it is the right decision. That's the first one. So I would like to support a consistent position, especially your leader. The other one. Some answers to the questions that have been asked. Why is the name strategic aviation, and is this acceptable to us? The term “strategic transport aviation” is common to all Western states, to NATO countries. In Ukraine this term is not defined, but in addition to this agreement, it lists aircraft belonging to the strategic class of the distance to which the shipments are made. And they're covering IL-76 military aircraft and they're covering the planes that they're releasing, and I'm proud of it, our Antonova NTK plant, "Mraya", "Ruslan" and the entire ANN family and today's, and the future. I mean, if our planes refer to a category of strategics, I think it's just a reason to be proud of your country. The other one. Paragraph 2.2. Indeed, it is said that further, on the basis of the Framework Memorandum, there will be cooperation not only with NATO countries but with all partner countries. It's clearly written. I repeat: Belarus, Russia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and so on. And it's true, it's written in this document. I would like to remind you that three parliamentary committees have supported this decision. And this also shows that regardless of the political forces that make up these committees personally, it is a positive decision by the three profiling committees. The National Security and Defence Committee supported the issue with a single warning that the issue would be dealt with on the basis of the laws of Ukraine. But the government cannot act differently; it must act solely on the basis of laws. Because if a decision is to be taken against the law, these officials must be placed in the procurator’s office and law enforcement agencies. And the last. I mean. It's not about NATO right now, it's about joining NATO. If really, frankly, it's about our economy, about our aviation, about our jobs. Opponents, I would like to go to Antonov's NTC right now and ask: How many flights have they already made on this line? And they'll say, “More than 800”. And what are their costs in eight years? And they'll say, "A billion dollars." Or go to our Ukrainian airline, which will say that only over the last two years has the income of one and a half million.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u109	Let me finish. Finish it, Anatoly. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion, we will be determined. There were many questions and discussions about who and when they signed. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 1 In 2004 in Warsaw, the minister of defense at the time, Marchuk. I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole as the Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Command of the United NATO Armed Forces on Transformation and the Supreme Commander of the United NATO Armed Forces in Europe on the use of Ukraine's strategic transport aviation in NATO operations and training. Registration number 0296. [[12:56:44]] For 207 Not accepted. The factions. Communists – 0, “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 31, “Our Ukraine” – 40, Block of Timoshenko – 34, Socialists – 4, Ukrainian People's Party – 25, Social Democratic Party – 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 16, “Trust of the People” – 7, “Reforms and Order” – 14, industrialists and entrepreneurs –8 People's Movement – 14, “One Ukraine” – 7, “Afterfractions – 7. [[united]] There's a bill. Who's to go back to the vote? [[12:57:50]] For 208 The decision is not taken, it is withdrawn. Dear colleagues, I'd like to be always, I'm talking to my friends and my friends, always be consistent. The motives are over. The sequence is that if someone insists, we put the vote to the vote. In half a minute you'll be demanding, no need. All of us have made the decision as required by this Rules. The Act on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the phase-out of releases from the free trade regime is under consideration. Registration number 0309, reports Deputy Minister of Economy Brezny Andriy Viktorovich. Please sign up for a question, if you have one, to Andrija Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u110	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies for the implementation of the SND Framework Agreement on Free Trade between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus, which was concluded on 17 December 1992 and the SND Framework Agreement on Free Trade under the SND, which was signed on 15 April 1994, was drafted by the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the phased phase-out of discharges from the free trade regime on 21 May 2004. The ratification of the specified Protocol will allow the creation of a free trade zone in bilateral relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus through a step-by-step phase-out of the free trade regime. Article 1 of the Protocol provides that the deletion of the free trade regime will be effected within the time limit specified in the appendix. The objectives of this Protocol are to facilitate the liberalisation of trade between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus, to expand the mutually beneficial trade regime, to ensure fair and long-term harmonious development of economic relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus, to ensure a level playing field for fair competition in trade. The specified Protocol reinforces the intention of the contractual parties to engage in the creation of a free trade zone to ensure cooperation between commercial and economic policies in the field of industry, agriculture and the development of fair competition. The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Economics and agreed without notice by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. The adoption of the law will ensure its validity, enable it to implement the provisions of the protocol, promote the development and strengthening of bilateral relations with the Republic of Belarus. I would like to point out that trade and economic relations with the Republic of Belarus are extremely important for Ukraine. Now, in difficult economic conditions, we actually have two factors of economic growth: trade with the Russian Federation and Belarus. Belarus and I went out for a 1 billion trade round last year, and in the first half of 2005, it was $1.2 billion. And we have a chance by the end of the year to get to the historic maximum that was reached in 1997. The increase in exports to Belarus reached 50 percent this year, and this is an important factor in supporting Ukraine’s economy. [[Ukrainian Export]] The protocol defines the phase-out of several positions of importance for Ukraine's economy. The first is the export of livestock, raw leather and white sugar. In the first place, 2005 is already in the second position, since 1 January 2007. The overall effect of this decision is positive. The Republic of Belarus consumes 600,000 tons of sugar, trading in Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u111	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u112	The supply of Ukrainian sugar to the Belarus market also allows these supplies to continue throughout the SND free trade zone. Thank you for your attention. Please support the specified protocol project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u113	Yes, please, three minutes to ask. Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u114	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Droguncs. Dear reporter, I think we have a mutually beneficial relationship between Ukraine and Belarus. Belarus outnumbers us by many of the most important indicators, both at the rate of development and at the standard of living of the population. So we have a reason to learn from them. Please tell us what our payment balance with Belarus is in the previous period, let's say this year or the end of this year, as you predict. And your thoughts on the prospects for trade co-operation, trade relations between Ukraine and Belarus. Is there, in your opinion, a brake or the other way around? So you've given us quick trade figures. Will this trend continue to progress?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the bilateral trade in 2004, we had a billion and a full trade balance of 500 million. This year, when Ukrainian exports to Belarus increased by 50 percent, Belarusian imports increased at a faster rate than wheeled equipment, tractors, and investment goods imports. But the balance is still at a fairly small level: 0.5 is one percent of the total circulation, which is about $50 million. Negative balance for Ukraine. This means that Belarus's economy is now developing at a faster pace and is increasing some of the positions in our trade. But at the same time -- I want to point out once again -- and our growth, our exports are 50 percent in Belarus at the total export rate of six percent in all countries. So this is a very important market for our products, high-tech and final consumption.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u116	Please, Igor Skin. No Igor? Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u117	Thank you. Please tell me we're making an exception for you today. That is, we allow us to bring Belarusian products to our home. In principle, in understanding and agreeing with the basic approach, I wanted to ask whether there is an economic justification or an economic analysis of what this would give or what our producers would lose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u118	Dear National MP, the protocol is not about removal, it's about cancelling the removal. In our two-way mode. That's the story here. After the free trade regime was established in 1992 In the 1990s, a large cattle, leather and sugar were removed from the free trade regime by Ukraine. Belarus removed white sugar. Now we're actually, in 2004, a signed protocol that defines the elimination cancelling schedule. That is, the formation of a full-fledged free trade regime. Entering the free trade mode of these positions that are currently being deleted. So that's why it's about setting up a full free trade regime. If you look at the product balance in particular, I can tell you, in livestock we have virtually no exports now even under the conditions of free trade with Moldova. Because the cost of production, the cost of cattle in Ukraine now exceeds even the indicators in other regions that we trade with. After the skirmish last year, 20,000 tons were exported, again, in a free trade regime from Moldova. And this year, 8,000 tons, again, with Moldova. Therefore, refusing to remove this restriction in Belarus’s trade will not significantly change the situation. We think this protocol here is the result of two government agreements. And it's basically a balanced document. We have been able to place white sugar on the Belarus market since January 1, 2007, and Belarus will still be able to do so to Ukraine. But from the point of view of domestic consumption and production, this is going to lead to an increase in the overall circulation of both exports and imports.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u119	Thank you, Andry Viktorovich. Have a seat, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee in Foreign Affairs, Oleg Alexiyovich Grachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the phase-out of discharges from the free trade regime, which was signed on May 21st last year by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, John Kirilenko. The purpose of the law is to ensure the further liberalisation of trade relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus in accordance with the agreement between the SND States on the establishment of a free trade zone since 15 April 1994. As of April 2, 1999, changes and additions have been made. The action schedule is already in the plugin. The implementation of the specified protocol will not require additional costs from the state budget. The Committee believes that the protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the phased phase-out of releases from the free trade regime provides a reliable legal mechanism of the international level to activate the process of bilateral trade and economic relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the law by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided to recommend the law before the adoption of the session. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u121	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Vote? I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole as the Ratification Act of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the phase-out of discharges from the free trade regime. [[0309 Bill]] Please vote. [[13:10:39]] For 233 Copy that. Please, the microphone. The factions, please. The Communists – 55, “Regions of Ukraine” – 35, National Party – 6, “Our Ukraine” – 20, Block Timoshenko – 23, Socialists – 22, Ukrainian People's Party – 9, Social Democrats – 1, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 19, “Trust of the People” – 10, “Reforms and Orders” – 3, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 10, National Movement of Ukraine – 9, “One Ukraine” – 3, non-fractional – 8. Write it down for reasons. Three minutes, please. Please. Grachev, Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u122	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It is very surprising, with the results of the vote, that the factions who are now in favour of the Ukrainian interests have not voted, at least in full favour of the bill. This suggests an unserious approach or even ambiguity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u123	Yes, please, Chewchenka. Carmazine's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u124	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Vaszczuk Katherina Timofievni.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u125	Please, Katerina Vashtuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. It's a pretty important question, though, and we wanted to say our vision. That's right. We're entering a free trade group, a large group of goods produced in the agrarian sector. And we were going to demand that the Cabinet of Ministers have a clear diagram, clear numbers, clear quotas for these goods. We have examples of past years. It's not the state, it's the business. We respect the Belarusians. But when sugar-cheese comes from there, and it looks like it's made in Belarus, and it's free trade and it's destroyed by its own, I don't think we're doing it wisely, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin, please. John the Rabbit is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear friends, I didn't vote, there's no vote for ratifying this treaty. Because that agreement about creating a free trade zone of eleven years ago, it doesn't work. It's not working. It does not work because of the fact that the country now has so - called cocoa, which is five percent cocoa, and 95 percent sugar. And we're not doing anything to stop it. The government does not make any proposals. And so today we have 250,000 tons that Julia Timoshenko has taken to breaking the law and with huge losses for Ukraine. And plus we have all the time unmeasuredly of this mix that comes from there. So, I think we've made a decision that's not entirely justified right now, from the point of view of Ukraine's national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u129	Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u130	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we must create conditions for our production to enter other markets. And we need to set the order not only at the legislative level, but also at the customs office. And so if someone smuggles goods into our market, we have to stop these flows. However, we simply imitate the activities, as if everything depends on the laws. There are many laws in Ukraine that are good and good, but there is no authority, there is no such authority, and there is no desire for the Supreme Council to enforce these laws. That's what our problems are, not that we're going to pass some kind of law. We have to work today with Belarus, with Russia, with others on free trade zones, those that we have signed for more than 10 years, not to drag on to the SND today, and to create a legislative basis to actually destroy the Ukrainian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Time is running out of motives. Let's move on to the next question. And I'd very much like to ask you and I to agree about a month ago that we're going to have a week of drafts on the agrarian complex. We've been in the neighborhood for a week. Come on, there's still some projects left today. Let's work effectively so that we can finally finish these issues, because the day of agricultural workers is coming. Please, draft of the Act on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine, registration number 7728, Tomic Ivan Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, you have a very important draft law on the engineering and technical security of the agro-industrial complex, registration number 7728, developed with the participation of the Institute of Agrarian Economics, initiated by a number of national deputies. The existing APC's material and technical security is imperfect and unable to meet the market needs of agricultural producers, food companies, machine manufacturing, equipment, installation and technical services. Technical equipment for agriculture reaches a critical limit. Only an average of 2 to 4 million tons of grain loss per year as a result of weariness, diesel fuel, as a result of 90% of weariness and inefficiencies, is made up of 1.5 to 2 billion dollars per year, not only for financial losses, but also for essentials, making it impossible even for the availability of resources to produce technology. As a result, the quality and competitiveness of agri-industrial production, which is one of the problems of integration not only of Ukraine into the WTO, but also of the European market. The main agricultural machines provide agrarian enterprises, respected colleagues, with only half of them. More than 90 percent have already completed their depreciation period, and the annual write-off of worn-out technology exceeds its purchase. Because of technical failures, the fourth part of the APC tractors and combines are not used annually, the main cause of the deterioration in technical agrarian production is the significant decline in the capacity of agricultural enterprises. Experts estimate that 200 to 220 billion, or 22 billion annually, are needed to upgrade the agricultural tractor park. Ladies and gentlemen, without the structural restructuring of the existing engineering facility, it is impossible to stabilize the APC. In this regard, a bill has been introduced that takes into account the basic principles of the organization and the development of legal norms for regulating social relations that arise in the process of functioning operators. The Scientific and Experimental Authority supports the draft bill, the Agrarian Policy Committee of the Supreme Council of October 5th reviewed the bill and unanimously asks you, your fellow Members of the Council, to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u133	Thank you, sit down, please. Are we going to talk or are we going to vote? Ivan Aleksandrovitch, you're still not going to get there, so you're standing far away. Vote? Let's vote. There are four discussions, please. Please. And because it's a reduced procedure, don't talk on the phone, just look at the schedule. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. None. Thank you. Lechenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u134	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The issue of the APC's engineering and technology system is extremely important for further development rather than agriculture and the agricultural sector. However, it is not concerned about the effective bourgeois power of Ukraine, as it was not concerned by all fourteen temporary governments, including today's, because in order to comply with the instructions of the International Monetary Fund and other foreign political and financial circles to turn the land into a market for sale, to take it back to the peasants, as had been taken away from the people of Ukraine by factories, factories and other public property, today's authorities are doing everything they can to completely destroy any system in the village, including material and technical security. The bill was not introduced by the government but by members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian politics and land relations. It's a little late, isn't it? The former “Uksilgotechnics” network has been virtually destroyed, and machine-tracking parks forge decommissioned farms and radgospas in the vast majority are pitiful. Somewhere in a village or in a field you can see a patched, overcrowded, wire-bound tractor or combine. It breathes into the meadows of the country’s agricultural machinery. The cost of technology, spare parts, maintenance services and repairs is the result of our domestic, emphasising a mass agricultural producer. We are witnessing that the deliberate anti-Selian actions of effective power have gradually led to the production of basic types of agriculture instead of the large-scale sector in the individual farms of peasants. 72 percent of meat, for example, is produced in these farms, and there are also significant quantities of plant production. We know what the mechanism is: a shovel, a breath, a pitchfork, a rake, a bucket. And in order to take a look at the area, it takes a lot of money to raise the crop now. Those who provide these services remove the last scroll from the peasant’s, and the products are taken for nothing, so it is no longer convenient to produce anything in the village. The bill under discussion aims to gradually set up an APC engineering system. It has significantly increased the role of the State in solving this problem. We can support him in the first reading. However, there is a need to work on the second reading. We need to learn the experience of our neighbours – the Belarusians, where there is a clear system of engineering and technical support for agriculture, as well as Moldovan, where the entire network of state MTS is created and functioning. And in general, as they say, everything is new -- it's a well-remembered old one. We need to go back to the experience of APC engineering, which we did in Soviet times. If nationalists and socialists in power are unable to lead agriculture, the Communists are ready to form a government and rebuild it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u135	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. After him is Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u136	Dear national MPs, radio audiences, TVs, voters! Despite the fact that the drafters of the bill are my comrades by faction and the speakers have supported it, I still have to say that similar bills apply to the system of patching holes in agriculture. And these holes have been made by those who are the authors of the bill and those who are currently most saving for it. Well, I would still like to have a moment when these people who broke up our agriculture have some moral responsibility and swear here in the rostrum because they promised a paradise in the country. One of these laws is that the problem that exists in the country now cannot be solved at all. Whatever we write down in this bill, but if there is no reliable support from the state, the village will not stand. If peasants continue to sell tons of wheat for 350-400 dollars, no engineering system of the village can recover. I'd like to read what the bill provides. “To stabilise prices and ensure the need for agricultural producers to be strained by spring and field, the assembly periods of work are developed by the competent central authority of the executive branch.” But we've already seen it in practice. The past government, ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko wanted to make some kind of a system to lower the prices of fuel-oil materials. We have seen in practice what this has led to. It was a feedback, and prices, on the other hand, grew. So without a change in the political system, without a change in the economic system, without a change in the agricultural system, this bill absolutely cannot solve the problem of agricultural engineering. This can never be done. But what I'd like to say is that since my friends here are the authors of the bill, I think you can vote, you can pick up a hole, and for that simple reason that the drafters don't exactly have an ex-leader of an agrarian party, which is now the bone of a deserving or national party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u137	Mikola Shershun. Behind him is Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u138	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian National Block. Dear National Deputies, Adam Ivanovich! The situation with the problems proposed before the resolution of the bill is very much like that suitcase without a pen to leave school, and the carrying of it is not strong. It's already overrun with engineering equipment and equipment involved in agricultural production. But the further we avoid considering this problem, the less hope that we will ever restore the position of the world’s leading producer of agricultural products and manufacturing. The faction of the People's Party wants and makes efforts to have an agro-industrial complex in place in the near future, not in principle, but on the basis of a clear programme of its development, based on a harmonised legislative base and a transparent and clear state policy. The ruins of the Ukrainian village became possible, primarily because of the State’s observation of the state’s position, or if such a state of birth, the destruction of the productive power in the countryside would not have occurred. And anyone walking by the earth would have, in addition to a sweaty forehead, a polluted hand, and a headache, a worthy income. Because no one needs this hard work to work. It's painful and embarrassing to go back to Grandpa's technique and the archaic methods of production. So the faction of the People's Party has a clear position on this issue: the state has to assume responsibility for the state of affairs in the APC. This is the first time. At times, there is little that needs to be done — not to interfere with an annoying peasant’s official, not to rob him, or to tell him what to do, or how to do it. Sometimes it's better to help get a loan. Better yet, create clear and transparent conditions for work. And now our peasants, believe me, won't let you down. So the faction of the People's Party is the only one who thinks that the bill proposed for consideration should be essentially supported. But given the considerable number of comments made to him, the principle worked out for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u139	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u140	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear parliamentarians, voters! As a villager, I understand the problems in the country today. Of course, it is also a pleasure to consider appropriate village laws for two weeks. However, it is unpleasant to observe the original state of the rural area. I'm afraid the good intentions of the authors of the law on the establishment of legal and organizational, economic principles for the formation and functioning of the appropriate engineering system in the future will remain at the same level, or on paper as many other decisions made in this room. I have to say, the situation in the village is catastrophic. There's nothing even a dead man can do to get to the last resting place. Perhaps our national Democrats now realize that, after the collapse of the RSR, their internal and external policies have raised only Turkey, Poland and a number of other countries, not their own state. Today, technical parks, repair and transport companies are being destroyed, and they are not operating or releasing our own technology in the same mode as the Herson Combin Factory and many more. Who's to blame? Of course, we can challenge our fellow scientists, who recently, remember, advised us last year that if we fail to do what is right, we will not be able to resuscitate our harvests in 2007. Where can they come from when the same science offered us appropriate reforms and Kuchma took them as a basis? And then Viktor Andriyovich went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, after declaring a year of the village, where is the money in the budget? The year will be as it used to be, and money and villages will virtually be gone. So, I think today would be worth both the former president and today's president putting in a body, not on a BMW, and driving around our Ukrainian lands. Let them see what our rural people are going and working today, what they are doing there, and what they are doing accordingly. After that, they would quickly open up state farms in the countryside. And there won't be any today. That's all the land was given, not told what to do with it. And technically, tax collectors, executive agencies have been kidnapped, sold, and today, people are left with nothing. And, therefore, today we're talking about the village, about. Almost nobody needs a tractor, nobody needs a driver, and I'm in Hersonian, where I'm in Calancetsky, where there's a royal S.T.U.U.U.U.U.U., where they've once studied combiners, and so on, they've shut down, with the advice of Julia Volodymyrina, S.T.U.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u141	Thank you. Anatoly Volodymyrovich, you mentioned the tractorists, you forgot the milkmaid. Unfortunately, no one needs them either. Yes, they want more from the motive, please, after a minute of the Rabbit, then the Gladys. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u142	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. There are three problems for agriculture, for agricultural production, whose elimination depends entirely on power, for Parliament: - these are low prices for agricultural production; - it's the underdevelopment of its own agricultural machinery and the lack of a high level of technology for agricultural enterprises; - it's a bet on latifund and land rent, and it's on farming. We have the State Program for the Development of Agricultural Machinery. And now it's time to ask why this program is not being implemented? Because this law doesn't essentially solve the problem, it can be adopted in the first reading, it can be thoroughly refined, but it won't improve the situation, because the executive power from government to government doesn't want to provide its agricultural producer with its own technology: it's bought in Americans, it's in Belarusians, it's in Russia, wherever they want, but not in their own. We have our own combine plants. We have our own tractor factories, but no one cares about them. That's why I'm calling on behalf of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I want to protect Ivan Alexandrovich, he knows the village, because until he went to the People's Movement, he worked quite actively in the agricultural sector, in the socialist, in the truth, in the agricultural sector. Yes, please, Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u144	Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, our faction clearly supports this bill in the first reading, and we will vote for it. And here are some of the positions: First. We don't have a single legislative basis on this issue. And the adoption of this law will to some extent resolve this issue. If a specific bill is adopted, article 13 of the draft determines that the amount of annual State support allocated to the agri-industrial engineering system is 5 per cent of the total expenditure of the State budget. If you think of the dynamics of the budget as rising, it's about 7 billion dollars. The reporter said that we need to upgrade the entire technology to about 200 billion. And the third. The bill states that technology that is not produced in Ukraine and spare parts should be imported without a duty. I'd like to support this position, too, because it's very important to the builders.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u145	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, microphone, please follow him, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u146	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, this is exactly the bill on which I think we have no differences, and the whole room can vote for it, I don't think there's any reason to vote against it. In general, the upgrade of the production apparatus is the most acute, current problem of Ukraine's economy and, in particular, the renewal of engineering and technology in agriculture. And it's this bill that puts the problem in the legislative field. For the first time, it's a strategy for the development of material and technical policy and its financial security. I think there's every reason to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u147	That's what we're gonna do. Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u148	Igor Shurma faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Adam Ivanovich, there is no doubt that the engineering system of the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex is an extremely important issue. But I would like to return to the Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Council of the Committee on Maternal and Child Health raised the question that the draft Law on Health Institutions should be put at the beginning of the sessional day, since we cannot consider the matter in any way. Today we will not again consider this question. I therefore ask you very much that arrangements on the Conciliation Council be preserved. And if you are able to give instructions to make sure that this bill is properly considered this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u149	It's up to you how we work. Question completed. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agricultural Complex of Ukraine. Registration number 7728. Please vote. Vote. [[13:38:17]] For the 250. Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I announce an extension of the meeting for 15 minutes. Because we have a wish, we haven't listened in a while. In the first, in the first. I said on the first reading. On the basis of the first reading. The decision is made in the first reading. It's been a while since we heard the announcements. So the two factions “Go ahead, Ukraine!” and the Social Democrats ask for breaks. [[United]] Please, Tamara Proscuratov. And then we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. During last week, when we all worked in the districts, we met and received citizens. I am sure that all of you have been approached by my fellow educators on the solution of the issue of the payments envisaged in article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine. We fully share their pleas. In fact, today, colleagues have talked about this when they spoke from factions, shares the position of a colleague of Noshchenko, that after the sale of the “Crucials”, when the state has money, you can finally solve this issue this year and not stretch it for five years. By the way, this was initiated when this law was passed, the deputies of the faction “Our Ukraine” promised on the stage of President Yushchenko when he was talking about my fellow teachers. We often talk about the fate of a rural teacher, but the ministry's promised salary increase has not been received, but we passed the law, and we voted for it, and it's good that the president vetoed that a college graduate who studied at the expense of the state budget should pay back the tuition fee if he doesn't go to work on the route, it's like it'll solve the staffing problem in a rural school. But first, the teacher’s social issues need to be resolved. These are his utilities, which since Soviet times has been an incentive to work as a teacher in rural schools. But without any increase in the financing of the rural teacher’s utility salary in September, public utility fees have been suspended, even though the government budget provides for the cost. And my colleagues in the Great Burly region of Kharkiv received a letter from RWE Nartov, who reports. I quote, “in connection with the recommendations of the head of the Avakov government, it is recommended to suspend the payment of the benefits to teachers”. The governor overturns the decision of the Supreme Council, that's nonsense. Solve the problem of aid for rural teachers and the human resources problem in general, I think, will be solved. Equally acute is the question that VUZ students ask when they continue with them, to impose fines on them for not being in the lecture. With such a request, students from the University of Ukraine at the third level of accreditation made such a problem. Where it is written, it is reported that a 30 - dollar fine is paid for not showing up for a lecture, although their education is certainly paid for. Dear colleagues, the honourable government, the honourable governors, finally solve the problem of the 57th article, the problem of the rural teacher, not by word of mouth, but by deed. Let us prove the fulfillment of our pre-election promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u151	Thank you. We will now adopt the meat and meat laws and improve life, including the teacher. The draft Law on Meat and Meat Products, registration number 8060, is being followed. Maybe we can back him up on the first reading? On the matter of milk, why is there no law on meat? Oh, no? Well, then, please, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk, three minutes. Vote? I'll bet. Tomic, please, Tomic. Carmazine's first recorded, he wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u152	Voting, voting. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. You are being reviewed by the draft Law on Meat and Meat, registration number 8060, initiated by the People’s Deputies. You remember well, in 2004, in this session hall, you and I had already adopted the Meat and Meat Act, initiated by the government, which was dedicated to the President of Ukraine. And after a review of the Supreme Council, the law did not get the necessary number of votes and was rejected. Taking into account the need for legislative regulation of matters, the requirements for producers and suppliers of meat and meat products, rights and obligations, their and control bodies, State support and economic incentives for the production and processing of meat and meat products, based on the 2004 law already passed, the consideration of the law, taking into account the president’s proposals, introduced an updated draft law. The proposed bill regulates the basic principles of economic policy in the field of meat and meat production and implementation. The need for his acceptance is justified by the following. Ukraine has sufficient potential to produce and provide internal markets for meat and meat products. In the meat industry, there are about 60 large and medium-sized enterprises, as well as over a thousand small-scale enterprises. In 2004, the meat industry produced 473,000 tons of meat, 310,000 tons of sausage, meat, and meat canned meat, 17.7 thousand tons. The main problems in the meat, processed industries are the lack of raw materials and the low implementation of meat products. Despite the lack of capacity utilisation, small - capacity enterprises continue to be built. The low level of technical equipment for such enterprises prevents the production, first of all, of quality products. The draft law is designed to take into account the provisions of the Council of European Economic Cooperation, which establishes basic veterinary and health requirements and rules. In the drafting of the bill, technical, veterinary, sanitary and biological requirements for quality and safety of food products were taken into account. By a decision of October 5, 2005, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office supports this decision. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u153	Thank you. Shall we vote? Come on, if you don't mind, in a minute, those who signed up. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you mind? You're very kind and loyal today. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone. Behind him is Ivan the Hare. Put it in a minute. Those who signed up only.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Adam Ivanovich, I'm not going in for a minute because I'm written down for a full discussion. Dear National Deputies! The project foresees a state standard for meat quality and safety, meat raw materials and meat products, the removal from circulation of innocuous meat, meat raw materials, meat products, testing of farm subjects, and the responsibility for violating legislation in this area. I want to ask the authors. What legal relationship is now governed by this bill? You won't find the answer to that question. As a result, I say that, with a view to implementing the requirements of the European Union directives on the quality of meat safety, meat products of other food products, and the implementation of the priority provisions of the European Union integration programme, there is a need for changes to the current laws of Ukraine, not to adopt them separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u155	Thank you. You've made a very wise bet. Didn't you? Well, let's keep going. Speak, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u156	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, you are extremely good today. Thus, the list of social relations that are governed solely by laws is determined by the Constitution of Ukraine, which is article 92 of the Constitution. However, I see that we have been going a little differently in our hall for a long time, and that is why all this law actually repeats the text that we adopted on July 24, 2004, which was called “For Meat and Meat Products”, which was then promised by the President of Ukraine. The similarity of this law, even the numbering of articles, is the same. And so I want to point out that most of the provisions of this law are subject to regulation of those laws that are called: quality and safety of food and food raw materials, health and epidemiological disadvantages of the population, veterinary medicine, consumer protection, standardization.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u157	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Well, you say everything wisely and talentedly, as always. John the Rabbit, a moment, please. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, come on, you'll be saying in a minute as a village specialist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u158	I don't know what they were talking about in the morning. John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Honorable national MPs, given the sixth article, say that this sixth article does not allow cattle to be slaughtered with a live weight of up to 200 pounds [300 kg] and pigs up to 90 kilograms [90 kg]. I don't think this norm should be in the law, although there is some kind of discussion, except for the sanitary slaughter. Prices should encourage people to keep cattle, for example, up to 400 kg, rather than prohibit slaughter in the law. I don't think that's appropriate. The other one. There is article eight and article nine. The article deals with the need to be tested, even by the standards of those who provide meat and those who process it. But the order in which this test is carried out is overturned by the Ministry. If we don't write the basic principles of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u159	Give John Alexanderovich an opportunity to finish. Turn on the Hare microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u160	If we do not write down the basic principle and such an attestation in this law, we will again receive a document where officials from the Ministry will terrorize both those who carry meat and those who process it. And article nine. This is a register of certified subjects. Again, the point is that the order of entry of such a register will be introduced by the Ministry. Again, we need to draw up this order at the legislative level, if we want to prevent the abuse of our country's civil servants, in terms of producers and those who process agricultural products. The same is true of the article about responsibility. There are no actual sanctions in this article, that is, we do not know how to take responsibility for a violation of an act by an enterprise. That's why we need to clarify this bill in this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u161	Thank you. Mr. Volodymyr's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u162	Fucking Communist faction. Our faction will support this law in the first reading, but there is another problem. And we need to pay attention today to our radio audiences, and the entire people of Ukraine, that the meat deficit in Ukraine today is 550,000 tons, and per capita it is 28 kilograms per year. Speaking of Soviet times, that's three times less. Between 1991 and 2005, 62 factories were closed. These issues need to be addressed and addressed to the government today. I was in the Charoby region of Great Burinka and I'm talking to shareholders, workers, a parliamentary inquiry is made, and I think the government and the prosecutor's office will deal with the stock that was illegally carried out at your company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u163	Yes, he will receive the word only to those who are written down. Please, Nightmare. He's got Gladys and he's probably Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u164	Nightshenko Mikola, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Litvina People's Block. I am now going through the law that we have been given today, and it is so impressive that we are talking about this sector, the production of meat and meat products in the good Soviet Union. We all know there's no farms, there's no state institutions. There are those who are in charge. So the law -- we support it in the first reading -- but the law, for example, does not specify who is the meat producer, what is the place in the population, because it is the subjects of farming that are registered in the order. And I'm going to do everything I can to make it appear in the second reading that the producer is the population, the price policy -- which is responsible for the Cabinet of Ministers, which protects the interests of the population; and I'm not going to let the population that keeps the livestock be subject to additional obligations in the form of different attestations and other documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u165	Please, Glady Mikhailo. Then Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, in the end, Bill 8060 of the Meat and Meat Products Act meets European standards. But there are some moments where we don't have to limit ourselves. For example, article eight and nine of the project should have a clearer expression. Article eight of the project is also dedicated to the certification of operators, and it would be helpful to complement the positions that determine the objects of such certification. I also believe that it would be necessary to regulate more clearly the responsibility for the infringement in this area. And yet our faction -- the Yulia Block of Timoshenko -- will support this bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u167	Please, Chewchenko Alexander. And the point will be Black. The rest of you don't raise your hands, just the ones that are written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u168	Alexander Shevchenko, Volodymyr Litvina National Block. It is a shame that the safety of food and its quality is addressed with great delay when practically all livestock and birds have been destroyed, and in the social sector because of the destruction of animal complexes and processing plants. And as a result of the recent years, seven million of the 24 million cattle heads remain. Thus, the reform of the economy in the first stages did not lead to any increase in the consumption of meat or to a deterioration in quality. Therefore, the first task of the bill is to protect the producer of produce, the farmer, who has a priceless purchase of livestock. The People's Party faction supports the bill because its position is defined by legal and organizational principles without. Meat and meat products for life, public health, the environment during production, processing, façade, storage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u169	Thank you. And Professor Cherniak, who has something to do with agrarian politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u170	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, there is an acute, complex and relevant problem of meat and meat products in Ukraine. Animal life is virtually destroyed. And measures must be taken to support animal production and to help solve the problem of meat. This requires legislative regulation. In this case, we have this kind of experiment. Of course, it may not be perfect, but it is just the first reading. I think we can support conceptually in the first reading. Those who lobby meat importers are against this law. And those who support their own manufacturers support this law. This is how the division took place in this room. I don't think we should stop at that. We have to go on and pass the O.R. law. Because the absence of the O.R. law is an insult to all Ukrainian patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u171	Thank you. But you continue to do so. If there's an O.R. law, there's gonna have to be a Ukrainian with a pepper. The discussion is over. Let's support the bill. It's about the milk, it's about the fat. It's about vodka and pepper on the line. I'm voting for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Meat and Meat Products Act, registration number 8060. I'd like to show you some miracles. Vote. [[13:57:40]] For 239. Thank you. The law in first reading is there. Yeah, we still have a little bit of law here. Ukraine's Food Security Bill, registration number 8098. Shall we vote? Ah, he wants to introduce Melnik. Please, Michela Eutychyevich, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u172	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! This bill sets out the legal, economic and organizational foundations of the State's activities. It is aimed at protecting national interests and guaranteeing Ukraine's food security for the person, society and the state against external and internal threats, and it is the State's responsibility for the proper level of nutrition for the population. The bill is designed to guarantee food security. That is, in developing and implementing legal, socio-political, economic, scientific and technical, organizational, information and other measures to ensure the physical and economic accessibility of the population to vital food, prevention and management of food emergencies. State policy is based on the principles of food security, taking into account the need for Ukraine's integration into world economic space. The purpose of the bill is to define the basics of public policy aimed at protecting national interests by guaranteeing food security in Ukraine and warning of food crises. The bill's task is: legislative approval of food security indicators, monitoring and level, and determination of the responsibility of executive authorities. Ukraine’s food security is considered to be the protection of the vital interests of the individual and the citizen, society and state, by which the State guarantees physical and economic accessibility and the quality of life-saving food for all citizens according to scientificly based food sets. Food independence is ensured and food security is maintained. The implementation of the State's policy on food independence and food security is an important component of national security and should therefore form the basis for the reform of Ukraine's agri-industrial complex. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on October 5, 2005, decided to adopt the bill as a basis. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u173	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows. Shall we discuss it? Well, let's do the first four in a minute. Carmagine is a minute and then Lechchenko. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u174	Adam Ivanovich, Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders You're changing the rules all the time, Adam Ivanovich. You can't do that. The bill that we are discussing right now certainly deserves attention, but unfortunately it also has many positions of populist character that I can stress. Yes, the project determines that in article 5, none of the main real and potential threats to food security is the rise in consumer food prices at a faster rate than the population’s income. Is that the norm of the law, please? This is a statement of the fact that is happening today in the state and it was happening because there was a failed government in our country. Now we're correcting this situation, but it's not supposed to be written down. So I think, if you're going to adopt this law, there's a lot of names in it that you can understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u175	Yeah, hold on. Can I have a moment, please? After him, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u176	Vladimir Leschenko faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u177	I'm sorry. I remind you, I continued for 15 minutes the meeting that I had forgotten. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. No one can deny that we have an extremely severe crisis in agriculture. The reason is that Ukraine does not have its own agricultural policy. We have come to realize that Ukraine has lost food security, and today we are talking about how to restore it. You see, the meat deficit for internal consumption is estimated at 500,000 to 1 million tons, and now smuggling is booming. The same applies to sugar. In 1990 almost six million were produced, now 1.8 million. The threat next year is going to be a deficit. The same applies to bread. You know how many osmiums you've sown, and next year it's going to be a threat. So we really need to adopt the bill on food security, which has been introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u179	Alexander Masenko. Next Shershun. Masenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u180	Thank you. Regarding the bill, it has to be said that the security of the state can be ensured when agriculture provides our food for our Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, for a number of reasons that I've talked about on many occasions, and the MPs here say that without the support of the state, our agriculture cannot provide our citizens with food. And that's why we can't guarantee food security in our country. But in this situation, I am more concerned about the quality of the food. Look at the quality we have. And it's not exactly a bill that provides for protecting the quality of the product. The products produced by the Soviet companies were stored in shelters for decades. And now, one day, there's no way that the product that's made in these businesses can be stored.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u181	Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u182	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian National Block. The proposed bill, regardless of all the attractiveness, the kind of social orientation, does not contain real mechanisms to ensure that the goal is achieved, and then no one is obliged to do anything. Everyone has to understand that a rich and economically developed society can be only when it has every citizen living in decent conditions and not a bunch of chosen ones eating, whereas for the rest of the population as a life-saving circle or as a supply, the authorities offer a queue of unenforced, self-sustained guarantees in the form of a similar bill if it gains the power of the law. So the faction of the People's Party considers it appropriate not to support this bill as one that is, first and foremost, populist and called on to distract citizens from solving the key problems that exist in society today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u183	Yeah, four made it. Dear colleagues, there are nine other national deputies. Giddyup, please, follow him Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u184	Your Honor, the chairman, the honourable deputies. In the country for a long time, at any rate for more than 10 years, the consumption of vital foods, such as meat, milk, fish, and seafood, is at an extremely low level below scientifically sound standards. This situation, in my view, is the greatest threat to food security. At the same time in retail. There's enough production in the product groups, but there's no demand, because there's no purchasing power in our population. In fact, the bill is called upon to encourage the Supreme Council in Ukraine to make legislative changes to the food security system, and local authorities are then obliged to take a number of steps to implement it. I believe that this bill needs to be sent for first-reading work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u185	Michael's Nightingale, behind him Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u186	Nightshenko Mikola, 160th constituency, Sumstina, Lithuanian People's Block. Well, if you're going to take the title of the law, of course, the subject is designed and here's what's the argument. It's a direct function of the Ministry of the Agro-industry complex to make food security policies. What do you make, how do you make, how much? The bill provides for this function to be dispersed among the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, local government organizations, more citizens and citizens’ associations, have already been reported. But what mechanisms? Are there preferences, benefits, and material support? There's no word in this bill, so I support the proposal to send it back for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u187	Michael Gladys and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u188	Mikhailo Gladys, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we certainly need Bill 8098. That doesn't mean that we have a food hazard today, but we have to warn ourselves, especially that this bill defines both quality and quantity. But, dear friends, we wanted to pay attention to the serious flaws in this bill. First, we must give our consumers a complete commitment to their rights and obligations, which also applies to food security. And another important, food security is determined not only by the quantity of products but also by the ability to buy them. That is why we need to take serious note of this in the bill. I thought today we could support this bill in the first reading. Thanks for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u189	Please, Cherniak, follow him, Orzhachowski. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u190	Honourable People's Deputies, Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Food security issues are extremely important and relevant, so, as they say, no hand is raised to vote against the law with such an intriguing name as “Food Security”. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill is declarative. In fact, there are no specific mechanisms. So we can vote in the first reading, but we can work seriously in the process of preparing for the second reading, or for the rereading of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u191	Orzhachovsky Anatoly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u192	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. I would be happy if food security were to be provided in our country. But the realities of today show that there is no desire, the very main thing, and the will in our power today is only words and no more. I say this because when I was in Hersonian, I was able to communicate with the local authorities, and I learned that virtually all food security is being translated into rural and rural councils today. The heads of the boards write appropriate instructions, statistical authorities require a report, although the village councils have no bearing on farmers reporting to them and so on. So in the future, we need the government's fixation there at the village level, the appropriate units, and then we can have some influence. And so today we've got all these private rails and we want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u193	Question completed. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the Food Security Act of Ukraine, registration number 8098. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:11:38]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. There was a re-offer. Who's behind this offer, please be sure. [[14:12:04]] For 172 Not accepted, the bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, by factions? Well, you have monitors. Please, by factions: Communists - 53, Ukrainian Regions - 0, National Party - 12, Our Ukraine - 11, Block Timoshenko - 25, Socialists - 20, Ukrainian People's Party - 16, Social Democrats - 0, Forward, Ukraine! - 18, Reform and Order - Zero, Industrial and Entrepreneurs Party - 10, Ukrainian People's Movement - 5, "One Ukraine" - 0, non-fractional - 2. Dear colleagues, I would very much like to ask, we have a bill that has long been passed by the government, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, registration number 7687. [[about the honorary title of "Mother Hero"]] I ask you to vote for him. Vote. There's a title. Let's support him. Vote. And then the father, the hero, will lead this movement. [[14:13:22]] For 234 Dear colleagues, here's a sentence that says that this title is added to the list of names that we already have. And that's what it's called. Let's all take it as a law and support our government. Not ours, but the government. We vote in general as a law. That's right. That's right. [[14:13:57]] For 256 Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich here pointed out that our government is in the sense that this is our country's government. It's absolutely. Are we going to adopt a law on fish or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-02-m0.u194	Oh, no? Then that's it. Dear colleagues, thank you for your good cooperation, for understanding the problems that we have discussed today. At this morning’s meeting, the Supreme Council declares it closed. At 15 hours we'll be working in factions and committees and reminding the factions that at 15 hours on the third floor we're gathering factions authorized for election laws. And I would like to ask the committee of Slavuta, Pravdenko, from the Committee of Media and Kruczkowski, who worked on the committee for the drafting of the relevant bills. [[Head of the Slavuta Committee]] Good luck.
