ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:08]] A total of 410 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear national deputies, as you know, have been killed for days by a group of military personnel who carried out their peacekeeping mission in the Republic of Iraq. I ask them to respect their memory for a moment of silence. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was the birthday of the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk. Let us greet him, wish him fruitful success, strong health. And today is the birth of a group of national deputies, Baburin Alexi Vasilovich, Bilovola Alexander Mikolaiovich, Gunnery Eugene Alexiyovich, Larine Sergey Mikolaiovich, Shandry Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Let's welcome them all, and wish them good health and fruitful success in social and political activities. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Viktor Dmitrovic, into the composition of the Ukrainian People's Agrarian Party Dept. In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I inform you of the election of the authorized representative of the parliamentary group, co-chair of the Democratic Initiative Group of Jaroslav Alejandro Vladlenović and the authorised representative of this Karpov Karpov MP group, Mr. Mikolajovic. Dear National Deputies, the Conciliation Board of the Deputies and the Groups have decided on the schedule of meetings for the plenary week from January 11 to 14, a list of the proposed issues has been distributed to you. Let us go to their consideration. Out of procedure, please, five minutes. Sign up. Yes, on board, please, the names of the national MPs that are listed: Gennady Josephovich Udovenko, faction of our Ukraine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! On the agenda for today's session, the first question is finally a very important question -- a bill to ensure equality of rights between women and men, but there are no co-authors at today's meeting. The co-authors of the bill, not Samuel, not the Darlings. So I have an offer. I'm ready to report on behalf of the committee, but since the co-authors of the bill are not available, I'd like to see whether we're going to consider this issue or not. I repeat, I'm ready to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u3	Yes. Thank you. Omelyan Pussy, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u4	May I have the floor to the leader of the faction Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u5	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to address everyone in view of the fact that the Communist faction has made proposals for the urgent execution of the Supreme Council Order: to recall our military personnel from Iraq. Sadly, this decree is not being implemented. So the faction has made and asked everyone today to consider a project that is already reproduced and distributed in the hall, 6479, and to move it from the last consideration of today’s schedule to the first chapter, where it is scheduled to be included in the agenda of the day and the decision-making process. We'd like to go back to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moved to honor the memory of the dead who voted in favour of sending a military contingent to Iraq to order an unpeaceful mission from the Americans.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, if we're going to make a decision, let's not be counting now. Please. The procedure has to be signed. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. On behalf of our faction, I would like to address the Cabinet of Ministers today, particularly the Ministry of Finance. The last days of this year went to APC programs in the area. It's a considerable cost, but a command is given to all the county treasury to pay this back. This is last year's budget, this budget is up-to-date. Today these costs are coming back, especially in the Plain region, more than two million are returned, and so many areas. It's a Kiyev Treasury team. We would like to know what laws or regulations the Cabinet is governed by, taking money out of areas without implementing the 2004 State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u9	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. The faction of socialists is deeply saddened by the deaths of our soldiers in Iraq, and unfortunately, the three men who died are from Zitomir my countrymen, and this is already the 4 deaths from Iraq that were brought to the Zitomir region, so, dear colleagues, you remember when we spent our first death collecting funds in Parliament to help the family. I think the sin of the soul is carried by many who voted in favour of sending our peacekeepers to Iraq. I think it would be very appropriate for us parliamentarians to raise funds today and provide adequate assistance to the families of the dead. And one more thing. Before we withdraw our troops, which are going very well, we are making an offer to make a decision to ban our troops in Iraq from going out of the barracks in general. We need to save them and bring everyone home alive right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u11	Lejko Grigorovich Lukyanenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u12	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Uliy Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome everyone to the successful conclusion of the very long music after the election of the President. President Yushchenko, in a systematic manner, developed three criteria to meet the new frame. First. This is patriotism, love for Ukraine, and decency. The other one. It's professionalism. And the third is the need to separate power from business. All these three criteria are extremely important, and if they are met, Ukraine will really start a new period in its history. I would particularly like to emphasize the importance of the third criterion. Without its implementation, it will be impossible to overcome bribery, corruption, and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u13	Dear National Deputies! We exchanged thoughts on procedural issues. Regarding the offer of Gennady Josephovich the Widow. Dear National Deputies, Gennady Josephovich, perhaps let us consider it, regardless of what the authors of one of the projects say, not to consider this document, we will take it as a basis, and we will continue to work. Is there no objection? With regard to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka's proposals to move questions about the draft Iraqi ruling into a chapter for the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process, if there is no objection, let's do it. Just a minute. Because we did that because there was no committee decision. There is now a committee decision. With regard to the suggestions made by Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk. Really. These funds have been channelled. But, Catherine Timothy, today I had a conversation with the prime minister, on January 10 ended in a financial year, and I had to actively use these funds, not to draw. Now, one minute, my fellow dignitaries, the Ministry of Finance is now working to make sure that these funds are actually used for the purpose. Alexander Petrovich Baranowski of the Supreme Council for the provision of assistance to the families of the dead. I ask you then, and I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate proposals, and we will consider them. We'll make the necessary decisions. Now let's get to work on schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u14	What? We've already made a point. The replicas? No one's name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u15	What? That's all, there's no reply, dear colleagues. A draft Law on Equality of Rights for Women and Men is being announced for consideration. It is proposed that the bill be reviewed in five minutes for the report, in order to answer the question, within five minutes. Don't yell at me. I want to say again, we signed up, we've been out of procedure for five minutes. Sit down, please. Have a seat. Please sit down. This is a serious question. When we get to the consideration, you'll look at it. Please calm down, sit down, please sit down. The faction may require a break of 30 minutes, 2 factions, please calm down. I want to tell you again in Ukrainian that we signed up: 5 minutes out of the procedure, I spoke from the Hennaday Faction Josephovich Udovenko. I want again, in order of conduct, please, when we consider the question, you then, we haven't considered the question, we've only discussed procedural moments. We have not yet begun to consider the matter. Sit down, calm down, read, read the rules, calm down, calm down a minute, respectable colleagues, calm down. A draft Law on Equality of Rights for Women and Men is being announced for consideration. Your point is this: 5 minutes for the report, 5 minutes for the answer to the question, 5 minutes for the report, 3 minutes and 3 minutes respectively, 15 minutes for the decision-making discussion. There are no warnings about this order? None. Please, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, my distinguished colleagues, I would like to remind you that in the previous session this Law, along with its alternative drafts, has already been discussed and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been able to make an effective, positive decision. So I decided to bring it back to your consideration, and I'll remind you of the basic positions proposed in this bill. Ukraine's bill on equality of rights between women and men is designed to specify the provisions of Article 24 of the Constitution, which stipulates that equality of rights between women and men is ensured by the provision of equal opportunities for social and cultural activities, education and vocational training in the work and remuneration of women. But despite this, there are cases in Ukraine where equal opportunities are not ensured. Thus, employment or dismissal gives priority to women or men, and a lower level of pay is set for women or men. Admission to educational institutions gives priority to women or men. Therefore, it is only possible to address the issue of equality of rights between women and men by defining specific rules of conduct in the public, political, social and other spheres. These specific rules, permits or prohibitions, and the responsibility for their failure, must be defined in the law. But there is no law in Ukraine that allows for equality of rights between women and men. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, ratified by Ukraine on 12 March 1981, imposes an obligation on the participating States to ensure, on the basis of equality of men and women, the following rights: the right to work as an inalienable right of all people, the right to equal opportunities in employment, the right to free choice of profession or employment, the right to equal pay, the right to health and safety of work, including the maintenance of extended labour, the same conditions for the orientation of the choice of profession or speciality. My bill is aimed at establishing a legal mechanism to ensure equality of rights between women and men, guaranteed by article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine and envisaged by the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and on the Settlement of the Problem of Social Equality between Women and Men in Ukrainian Society. At the same time, the adoption of such a law will increase women's chances of realizing their potential, equalizing women's and men's rights to work, to education. The achievement of equality between women and men will contribute to building a society in Ukraine. In drafting the bill, its developers took into account the experience of countries where equality of rights between women and men is ensured by law itself. For example, Iceland, Lithuania, Norway, and other countries where this problem is settled. The bill establishes a mechanism to ensure equality of rights between women and men in the relationship between the employer and the employee, the manager and the subordinate. Education provides for equality of rights between women and men when entering educational institutions, developing curricula, and so forth. In order to unite citizens, including political parties, rules are laid down to ensure their equality of rights between women and men. The exercise of State oversight and monitoring of the rights of women and men is relied upon by the Bill of Power of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights. Article 21 of the bill provides a list of actions that violate the equal rights of women and men. The project therefore establishes administrative responsibility for failing to comply with the requirements of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the main issue that was being considered at the time, which I did not include in my bill, I would like to remind you. It's a question of quotas. I think it's premature. Instead, my bill at least sets the problem. There is another alternative bill that also introduces some innovative approaches to this problem. I wouldn't deny it if the Supreme Council of Ukraine had adopted one of these two bills as a basis for a law drafting committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u17	Yes, do you need more time? Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u18	In order for the committee to be able to finalize the bill, taking into account both the positive aspects of one project and the other. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Roman Mikhailovich. We have five minutes to answer our questions. Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u20	Vladimir Bondarenko, Our Ukraine. Mr. Roman, you know the bitter practice of considering a similar bill last year, when there were not enough votes in the Supreme Council Hall to balance women's and men's rights, legislatively to balance women's and men's rights regarding, inter alia, the creation of party lists in elections for a proportional system and so forth. Has the practice of European countries been studied, but not in the same way as the finished one we have today, and how have these European countries, in particular Sweden and some others, gone to the option that they have today, when there is a woman's employment as a priority and her being on the party list as a requirement for this party list to be registered as a whole? So the genetics of this problem in the West, can we now count on a repetition of this path? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Volodymyr, of course, this experience has been studied, especially since the sessional room had such an interesting discussion about the problem. However, I would like to draw your attention and attention to the situation of our colleagues with you: this bill itself is, practically, a framework in its approach to the problem itself. I absolutely agree with the general, let's say, the content of your question that the bill does not solve all the problems that relate to ensuring equality of rights between women and men, particularly in the political sphere. Instead, the bill, at least, opens the door, opens the way for the electoral legislation to be settled in accordance with European practice, because I am confirming that in many countries there is such experience, i.e. the use of appropriate quotas to ensure gender equality for men and women in their ability to be elected to Parliament or to hold appropriate positions in public authorities. Instead, I think that this approach is now premature, and that's why we need to take the first little step in order to take even further steps towards resolving this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u22	Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u23	Mr. Roman Mikhailovich, a small question. Why is the Constitution not enough and will we not return to the practice of the Soviet Union when at least three women will be deployed in each Presidency, and every MP on each subject will also have specialists? Why did the Constitution not suffice and require such a law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u24	I thank you for, in fact, a very professional question, because it's really very professional in its content. The Constitution makes it very clear in article eight that the norms of the Constitution are the norm of direct action. And so rule 24 of the article, which is the only article in the Constitution, where it's about equality of all, independently, of all persons, of all people, regardless of sex, race, skin color, and so forth, it should have direct action. We have also created an institution of the Authorized, which should ensure the rights and freedoms of the person contained in chapter two of the Constitution of Ukraine. Instead, the mechanisms for the Authorized to carry out the obligations imposed on him both by the Constitution and by Parliament are not defined by the Constitution or by the law of Ukraine. Moreover, for failure to comply with these requirements there is no legal provision that should be fines, which forms of punishment. It is, in spite of the very framework nature of my bill, that I am trying, at least on a certain, very limited scale, to solve a particular problem that I have identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u25	And Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please ask your question. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u26	Communist faction, Rodionov. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I have such a question. But I want to point out that the equality between women and men, as was the case with the Soviet authorities, is unlikely to be achieved. But I have a question. Say, please, your law is different from an alternative, which is different. And what do you think should be the basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u27	Let me not comment on the equal opportunities that existed in the USSR. First of all, because I didn't have a chance to see for myself at the time. And secondly, I wouldn't want us to burden this issue with some ideological reasoning. So let me, with your permission, I'm not going to say a line on this. As for another bill, it seems to me that it would be unfair and unethical for me to comment on the bill that is being put forward today as an alternative to my bill. If you asked me instead if I could see some points that I could call into this bill, then I would have to frankly admit to you that I think the bill is taking some innovative approaches to certain areas of activity that are not contained in my bill, and because if you listened very carefully to me, I made it very clear that I would not object to the adoption of either one or the other bill, taking one or the other as a basis for allowing then the committee of profile to take into account positive moments from that bill that was not adopted, and to propose to us in the second reading a practically consolidated, one-consolidated bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u28	Roman Mikhailovich, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Hennady Josephovich Vudovenko, please, from the committee. Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, International Relations. Please, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's symbolic that after such a big break in the work of the Supreme Council, we're discussing the issue of. draft law on equality of rights between women and men. There is no need to prove that the two gender equality bills introduced for today's discussion are quite important. Unfortunately, Ukrainian legislation does not meet international standards in this area of human rights protection. In our country, the problem of equality of rights, and more specifically, the problem of equal opportunities for the realization of their rights by men and women, continues to exist. This was demonstrated by the recent parliamentary hearings held in the Supreme Council, which focused on the situation of women in Ukraine, reality, and prospects. Therefore, delaying the legislative settlement of these issues is no longer acceptable. Two bills are proposed for your consideration. This is a bill to ensure equality of rights between women and men, the author of which is National Deputy Roman Zvaric, who has just reported on his bill; and a bill to ensure equal rights for women and men and equal opportunities for their implementation, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Catherine Somoylik and Nadrag. Unfortunately, none of the co-authors of this bill are in the Supreme Council today, they warned us about it. On December 21, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that registration number 6074-1 be adopted on the basis of the draft law, introduced by Samylik and Nadrag. This is a revised bill that has already been considered for the previous session. It provides a clearer legislative definition of specific rules that have developed appropriate provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding equality of rights between women and men. The committee proposes to adopt the draft proposed by Samojlik and Nadragha, and any comments made in Roman Zvarić's bill will be taken into account by the committee in the drafting of the Act. The Scientific and Experimental Authority supports both bills in the application
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u30	Allow me to finish my opinion to the head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u31	The report sent by Samoylik and Nadrag mistakenly states that the committee of law is a committee of law, and for the transcript, please note that the committee I represent today is dealing with this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u32	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich. Dear colleagues, please report to the committee head for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national deputies who are registered, please explain. Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u33	Dear Gennady Josephovich, there is no doubt that there is a problem in both Ukraine and Europe. The thing is, I'm going to allow myself to ask questions by extrapolating to a situation where the bill has already been adopted. The fact is that we have already had a quota and such an example in European countries so that equality of women is accepted. Now that they've done that, some countries even give up such questions, but why didn't the quota work in Soviet times, and what, besides the bill, I mean, what is the quality of society? What quality of democracy would the quota be if we, for example, accepted it, worked in Ukrainian society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, Soviet times -- it's a story, there'll be no turning back by then, there will be new times today, and we're living in a new time, a new state. And let's build our legislation according to the realities of today, according to the realities of our modern Ukrainian state. In Soviet times, yes, there was a quota, for example, there was no woman in the KPRS, once Furtzeva went there, and there was no more. We had Valentina Semenovna Shevchenko, but there was a babysitter, and there was no first secretary to a total party of women in Ukraine. What gender equality could then be discussed? But I'll tell you after the United States came back in the early days of independence, women were working in railroads in Soviet times, working in independence, just changing their jackets, the color of their jackets. We need to draft a bill, a framework bill, which was highlighted today by Zvaric in his speech, a framework bill and where to start. We're so far behind. Now we're talking about quotas. This was the most pressing issue when the Supreme Council had previously considered these bills. Unfortunately, this has been removed so that none of you, among us, will be annoyed that we're introducing quotas. There is no current position regarding the introduction of quotas in these bills As for the experience of European countries. Unfortunately, we still have a long way to go in this experience, we need to rebuild our economy, and then we can talk about equal rights between men and women when there's a thriving economic Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u35	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I pass my word on to the faction of gender problems, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u37	Olga Hinsburg. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u38	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Gennady Josephovich, I, of course, and our faction, we will support the law of Samoa, it better and more enlightens the problem of women. But I know for myself how difficult it is for men to work for women. You tell me it's better to do the job twice as well to get to the level of a man. But the law we have, it can solve this question of whether it's a society, a society problem. I don't think any of the laws we passed solve the problem that society has created. The system of power itself will not allow it today. What do you think, Hennaday Josephovich? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u39	You and I in this room have adopted a Constitution that proclaims the rule of law. And the rule of law is to put into practice the laws that we are adopting today. And I think that the new national president of Ukraine will do everything he can to make the laws that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts work. We have a lot of good laws. But there is no law among them, and it is very sad for the Supreme Council, there is no Gender Dignity Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u40	Thank you. Gennady Josephovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We agreed on 15 minutes. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the discussion. Zara Katusheva, a faction of Communists, has a word. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u41	First of all, I'd like a little bit of a Soviet story here, that's the past. Remind the speaker that he forgot names such as Shevchenko, Furtsev and so on in Soviet times, and very many other representatives, my friends. I can say that in Soviet times I was also the mayor of a small town on the outskirts, and there was a lot more to this list. But there's someone in the Soviet world who won't rest. As a woman, I am concerned about the situation we have in Ukraine. The topic of this bill is certainly relevant, as there are many problems in Ukrainian women. We, our faction, will support the bill sponsored by Samuelka Catherine Semenovna, colleague of our faction, and Nadrag Vasili. I want to say that the worst and most humiliating of all is the image of a Ukrainian woman abroad. Foreignly, having learned that a girl from Ukraine is, unfortunately, often perceived either as a top model or as a representative of an ancient profession. Even for rich new Ukrainians, that's the attitude. Statistics are also shocking that by the age of 50, a woman in Ukraine is on average eight abortions. In a healthy society, if a couple do not want to have children, a man shares responsibility with a woman on an equal footing. In Ukraine, unfortunately, the opposite is the case: they believe that this is a problem for women only. And another problem. Many in Ukraine believe that the purpose of a woman is to marry and give birth to children. Undoubtedly, it is a very important function of a woman and an honorable one, but in a civilized world, women are equally engaged with men in various spheres of activity. And according to Ukrainian mentality, a woman must be married, give birth to a child, care for a husband, and be an accessory to a man. Of course, many Ukrainian women are traumatized by such a situation in society and, unfortunately, are looking for solutions to problems in some way, but not in themselves. I would like to emphasize that the dependent situation of a woman in Ukraine is largely determined by the economic situation in the country. Her self-awareness is influenced in some ways by the upbringing of her family, the level of her income. I am convinced that the problem must be addressed by allowing a woman to advocate for participation in public life, in government, but not by quotas, because it is also a humiliation. I believe that we are equally able to compete with men in many professions and in many areas of public and political life. I reiterate that we will support the project, which is sponsored by Samuel and Nadrag. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u42	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. to prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u43	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of the Victor Yuschenk bloc "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! You can see that today the problem raised by the Party of Protectors of Homeland in the 99th year and everyone was convinced by the presidential elections that it should be resolved -- the problem of the practical implementation of equality of women and their participation in the work of the state apparatus, and more specifically, in government, here in the Supreme Council, in all branches of government, it hasn't moved at all since 1999. And my introduction to these two projects shows that the authors certainly need thanks, and Roman Zvaric, and Nadraga, and Samuel. These bills are similar to the colossal declarant, similar to those that list the rights and obligations that are established by valid legislation. Although Boiler goes much further, and I would like to draw the attention of the committee: it was not done in terms of the legislative technique, but in fact it went much further in terms of the content of the Boiler. He went on to make changes to the Education Act, where he really needed to make specific standards regarding equality, he went into the Code of Laws on Work of Amendments to Article 22 of the Prime. Adds such an article, adds 34 primes. - ensuring equality of rights. When men are given a job, he introduces administrative responsibility, introduces article 185 with a 12 - badge, but in truth, he fails to meet the requirements of the authorized Supreme Council. With regard to the Sameilik and Nadraga bill, they introduce concepts and a new body in general, such as the Council of Equal Rights and Opportunities at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We have to write down who is the chairman of this council and whose quota it will be. Then everything will be completely clear. I'm totally against this organ, but what's on the list, there's got to be 50 percent of the women on the electoral list, I'm pretty sure. Where they should be on the list, let the party determine, let the bloc determine, let the electorate determine. That's another question. So, your honor, the science department recommends that we work on both of these bills, if we're being honest. So, basically, I would design one of them, and for that I would suggest, let's take both of them as a basis and then make them one and essentially work together, because there's a lot of questions. And the question of quotas is discrimination in consciousness, not available.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u44	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u45	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, our constituents! First of all, allow us to welcome once again our voters from this rostrum with beautiful holidays and the New Year and the Christmas Christ. And may every Ukrainian, every citizen who lives on this earth be given the headship of two thousand and five great joys this year. I think we're worth it. As for the laws that we are considering today, I would divide into two parts: first - whether there is - painfully, dramatically - whether there is a gender policy problem in Ukraine. I'd be willing to argue with Mrs. Zara, who, well, tried to convince her that in Ukraine, a woman has a specific function. Once again, this is another discussion, but I'm ready with you, my dear colleague, to argue, because I definitely disagree with you. Because from Roxolana to the Forest of Ukraine, to other outstanding women who have been in Ukrainian history, it looks something like that. By the way, and today, I would say that, let's say our President's wife plays a very important role in our Ukrainian state, but you understand. Similarly, let’s say that Pinchuk’s wife plays a colossal role in Ukrainian politics in the distribution of Ukrainian property. As a result, let us not belittle our wives. And Vitrenko, in politics, is worth it, the one who's been going around virtually all of Ukraine right now! I mean, technically, there's no such problem. I'm actually thinking, maybe it's a disputed thought, that such bills should be adopted either in a country that's at some semi-faedal level of development where women's roles are at all removed, or it's a very high democratic development, like in the countries that we've talked about, where society requires a certain degree of self-regulation. But to be honest, I don't know how in this law the commissions or the territorial or the regional will determine the percentage of women who are on party lists. How will this happen, fellow believers? You can imagine it for one minute as it could be. Because of that. And then the creation of this council, which will be headed by the Humanitarian Vice Prime Minister. What kind of advice is that? That's what How's she gonna do all this? To be honest, I'm in such a disunity and understanding that we need such a bill, but it seems to me that those mechanisms and the Welders bill are even more perfect, and in the Samuelk and Nadrag bills, they seem to me to be imperfect. If you vote for them in the first reading, something else can be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u46	Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. I am pleased to welcome all the voters of Ukraine to the New Year's celebrations and to the victory of the democratic forces in Ukraine, with the election of the President of Ukraine. Dear friends, there are 2 bills -- 6074, 6074-1 -- they are designed to specify the situation. The first bill is article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantees the equal rights of women and men to Ukraine. However, it should be noted that most articles of the proposed draft repeat the relevant provisions of the Constitution, which is a document of direct action and does not require duplication in a separate law, as well as the provisions of Ukrainian codes and laws that provide for equal rights for men and women. Bill 6074, marked 1 provides for the settlement of such issues as the legal guarantee of equality of rights and the empowerment of women and men in various spheres of social life, the elimination of discrimination on the basis of sex, the identification of basic principles and mechanisms for ensuring national gender policy. Each one of us, the honourable colleagues, must have a wife, a daughter, a granddaughter who does not have one, and certainly we care about how well they are represented in society. And so, of course, these two bills of unification, or redrafting, may need to be spoken after we vote and accept it as a basis. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has always been at the heart of women's support in Ukraine, and we will vote for the bills sold. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to arguments like the fate of a woman in the country today. You know we gave up the land. Whatever you're doing, please, on you 3, on you, five acres, work. And at the same time, we say, demographics in the countryside, there's no birth. If this woman is working so hard from five o’clock in the morning to ten o’clock in the morning, tell her if she can talk about what could be some kind of love, yet there could be a birth, there could be raising children when we've given so many acres of land and say, "Let her work." At that time, the state, we will speak, has taken a step away from the problems in the country today. I think this situation will be broken, and in the village a woman will feel worthy, just as it has been before. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u48	Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovština Dear colleagues! I want to make your point that we are discussing a very important issue with signs of how our society will be built in the future. Why am I saying this? Because I understand very well that the authors, including Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, once made these bills biased towards the future, in view of the fact that society might once have such a acute problem in the mind of this society. That makes sense. It makes sense that the society of European countries has already come to the point of discussing this issue. But I want to warn you about some things, the question here was, is this legislation, are these quotas in legislation? So I want to warn you that in most countries this is at the level of consciousness, which is just a question that's being discussed, but European countries, our European colleagues in parliaments are very cautious about whether this should be introduced into the legislative field by some separate laws, let alone a quota, because everyone understands that the quota is already a limitation of some kind. And here were new civilizations now, I mean the situation in Iraq, the adoption of this constitution, which is today in Iraq, there was also a discussion about whether to accept a quota or not, but that's where society didn't go to the point where the quota was needed. So my view of this, we need to look carefully at both bills, obviously we need to accept them, but only on the first reading, in order to take all of this as necessary and then, as they say, make the bill that would be in our society. I want to give you an example of this: when we start talking about it abroad, we're supported, but we have to understand very well that when we see a woman, seeing the need for a level playing field in society, we don't get to what we have today from the past, we have what our women are doing today in the vests on the roads. And when you go to any country or to the west or to the east, you don't see women, even where this is being discussed, or not at all, so it's not just about legislation, it's about community consciousness, it's about community consciousness, it's about society that needs to be brought up according to the standards that this society lives by. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, the draft laws on equality of rights and women, women's rights and men's rights have been completed. From Bondarenko, Bondarenko, Shurma and Simonenko. Vladimir Bondarenko, please, for reasons, could be out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u51	Vladimir Bondarenko, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, Kiev. I asked for a motive, because first of all, there was an Iraqi proposal to look at it in a shortcut. But in short, we're not going to get the answer to three questions. First. Why Leonid Kuchma had not taken any action to comply with the Supreme Council’s decree until now. He continued to give orders, medals, and so forth, and he did not make decisions in Iraq. The other one. Why is it that the incompetent leadership of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is not responsible for the bombing of the Barovars, the convenient shootings against the Black Sea, and these deaths? And the third. Why is it that society is not informed about the possible cooperation of the Communist Party and the progressive socialist with Saddam Hussein? They have fully defended this regime and are now fighting for its restoration. Now in this situation, I'd like us not to address this issue in a rather broad, even broader way than ever. When we get the answer to that question, it'll be easier to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u52	Igor Shurma, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u53	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The faction thinks Bill 6074-1 looks more thorough. In our view, in particular, the presence of gender-based legal expertise, the inclusion of women and men in state statistics, is worthy of our approval. Yet these positions are spelled out in a very eloquent manner. When adopted in the first reading, we believe that mechanisms need to be developed to protect against discrimination. In addition, the denial and quota of places in schools in particular are causing us to do so, especially since statistics show that there is a more educated half of women in Ukraine. And so the faction will support Bill 6074-1 on the condition that all the positions that are in the second cookbook will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u54	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u55	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support Project 6074-1, which is written by Catherine Samuel, based on the fact that he's more fully and professionally trained than any other. And second. I'm asking you to vote for this project because the Communist faction comes out of the next. Today's political system and power has led us not only to terms in an independent Ukraine, but to virtually sexual slavery, to the neglect of our children, to a million street children somewhere, and 80 percent of the unemployed are women. This is exactly what the current independent Ukraine has brought. Poverty thrives among women, the level of housing. Doesn't that concern a woman? The level of prices and the impossibility to heal their own children, the level of support in general and the funding of the same children's programmes. Therefore, I believe that the level of preparation of the Sameilik Act is higher and I invite you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to proceed to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, we have two draft laws: 6074 and 6074-1. [[author of the Roman Zvarić project]] [[authors of Samylik and Nadrag]] According to the registration, I am voting on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Equality of Rights of Women and Men, registration number 6074, author Roman Zvaric. [[10:57:30.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 6074-1, on ensuring the equal rights of women and men and equal opportunities for their implementation. The authors are the national deputies of Samolik and Nadrag. Please vote. [[10:58:06]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, is there a proposal to vote in general? What is the position of the committee? There's a denial. So let's assign a committee to work on the proposals of the national MPs and take into account the positions that Romana Zvaric is in and out of the entire thorough document. No objections? Thank you. I think which committee we need, let's plug it in, no problem. We're in business, Yuri Anatoliyovich, we're going to solve this. Yes, now, dear colleagues, let's move on to the chapter "Integrating into the agenda and making decisions." [[we've got a reduced procedure here.]] May I have your attention, please? The bill amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, registration number 6056, is put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[on extra-school institutions]] To be included in the agenda, please vote. [[10:59:48]] For-286 Decision taken. So let's go to the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[on extra-school institutions]] Reporter - First Deputy Minister for Family Affairs, Children and Young Kostujenko Vadim Kostinović It's a simplified procedure. Prepare Mikola Efraemovich Policchuk from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The specificity and basic orientation of social policy on children in today’s contexts should primarily contribute to reducing their impact on the negative effects of social reform. The bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the State Programme for the Prevention of Childhood Care for 2003-2005, approved by President of Ukraine's Decree No. 154 of 21.02.2003. The subject of regulation of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Child Protection Act is the establishment of a clear mechanism for cooperation between the relevant ministries and the authorities of the local executive branch and the local self-government of social institutions with the aim of ensuring the fullest social and legal protection of children in society, their socialization and education. The bill gives additional powers and strengthens the responsibility of local executive authorities to monitor the activities of gaming halls, computer clubs, video clubs, discotheques, other entertainment institutions, the rule of law and ethical standards regarding children. The draft Ukrainian law provides for the improvement of the legislative and regulatory framework, bringing it to the requirements of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, will enhance the legal responsibility of parents, guardians, social institutions and officials for violating the rights of children in matters of their social and legal protection and reduce the number of offences, crimes and other negative phenomena, child-related manifestations. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u58	Thank you, Vadim Konstantinovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee. Yes, please, Mikola Ephraimovich Politchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, registration number 6056, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on extra-school institutions]] The bill proposes part three of article 5 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, after paragraph seven, to supplement the following with a new paragraph: “Controlling compliance in gaming halls, computer clubs, video clubs, discotheques, other entertainment establishments and public places of law and ethics regarding children.” Because, as we all know, the protection of childhood in Ukraine is one of the priorities of national domestic politics, it is necessary to anticipate today the protection of children’s rights, including the negative impact of individual phenomena and events on the child’s mental and physical health. In order to ensure such a right, the project’s author proposes to provide for some control by local executives and local authorities over the maintenance of gaming halls, computer clubs, video clubs, discotheques, other entertainment facilities and public places of law and ethics regarding children. As indicated in the explanatory note to the draft law, there is a rapid increase in the number of computer clubs and gaming facilities now numbering about four thousand. The drafters also point out that during 2003, gambling facilities, computer clubs, video clubs, discotheques at night indicated that children and young people between the ages of 12 and 18 were mostly visited. Their visit to such institutions is often late, and irresistance and indifference on the part of the owners of such facilities contribute to the use of alcoholic beverages, drugs, smoking, and even the involvement of children in criminal activities. It is also known that a large number of computer games and videos offered in these institutions have a negative impact on children’s psyche: violence, violence, psychological press, and so forth. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, also points to the appropriateness of adopting such changes, but the expert board believes that the term "ethical norms" should be excluded from the text of the draft law because it has no practical application in legal practice. But the committee after the draft of the bill to the first reading points out that the term has long been used in legislative acts, particularly in the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of the above, and taking into account the fact that the draft law was designed to implement the State Programme for the Prevention of Childhood Care for 2003-2005, approved by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 21.02. In 03 C.E., No. 154.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u60	Thank you, Mikolo Efremovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Short-term procedure. Solomonine. Get ready for Puzakov. Please, Puzakov. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u61	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In 13 years of independence, Ukraine has adopted many changes to the bill, but homeless children are not getting smaller and their lives are unfortunately not improving. Today, our society is faced with an undisputed fact that crime among minors is on the rise, changing its character. In the area of juvenile services, there are 130,000 people, 6,000 of whom are underage drug users, 29 percent of whom are sentenced. About 10,000 school - age children do not attend school at all. When we said a year ago that in Ukraine more than 80,000 families, who for various reasons do not perform parental functions for their children, there are now some 120,000 of them, with some 180,000 children. We cannot today boast that preventive work or a number of rehabilitation efforts among this group of children have had a consistent effect. Let us be honest about this: The moral condition of teenagers depends primarily on the information environment, on everything that comes into the eyes of the child and forms his life’s position. This is today’s information environment, which promotes fornication, violence, and cruelty, instills these same qualities in a teenager. How proud the authorities are to report on the steady increase in the number of computer clubs, gaming facilities! Are raids carried out by education workers, health workers? Or the owner of such a facility is responsible for the child, for the children are there late, where there is complete uncontrolledness and indifference of the owners of the facility. There are a number of cases where children use alcohol, drugs, and smoking. This is where children are most often involved in criminal acts. It is these same computer games and videos that are offered to children in these institutions that have a negative impact on children’s psyche. All of this is not seen by the authorities except in addition to the additions to the bills. does not take any action towards economic, social and legal measures aimed at creating conditions for the full satisfaction of the needs and requests of children. But we Communists have constantly cared for and cared for increasing the legal responsibility of parents, guardians, social institutions, officials for violations of children's rights in the area of their social and legal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u62	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I'd like to say that this law is extremely flawed. It's just one sentence of three sentences. You have to accept it, but unfortunately you can't accept it as a whole for reasons that have been rightly pointed out by both the Science and Experimental Authority, and you can all see that. There is such a definition used as ethical standards. That is to say, control over compliance and playrooms, computer clubs, video sites, other law - order entertainment facilities, and ethical standards for children. What are these ethical standards? This needs to be defined more clearly, and then, of course, it will be easier to control. Sharing the concern of the government, I want to say that this is exactly what this government did. The fact that today, five thousand computer clubs are today, is that they now have those machines that are being brought here, those who start them, pursuing only one goal — profit. Just think, yesterday, the day before, literally, I went to look at these computer clubs. There's absolutely a cult of money, those euros lie, you have to get them there, they become babies from the morning to the evening they get those euros, there's a house of death, there's a house of death, there's kids playing with death and they're trained to do it, there's always got to be shot, it's got to be killed, and it reminds me of the changes that the Cabinet is offering here, but what changes are needed after some of our deputies have fallen apart, I'm using that word to increase advertising today on TV. Well, look, no movie you can see, you'll be interrupted several times by commercials, the number of ads coming, because the owners are the same on all channels. Together, so that you can't switch, we're going to predict for a long time that these media will be just a means of profit, do they have any information role to play in society? So in Ukraine, more than 135 thousand children, called untrustworthy, because they live in families, yes, unwell, as you say, I say that it's hard to hope for these children because they either have no job or they've gone abroad and left them here. Therefore, these children need to be raised and, of course, monitored, including by the adoption of the bill. I vote yes, first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u64	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction, prepare Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u65	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, it is clear to anyone who has at least considered this bill running, that it needs to be supported, but I would like to draw our attention to the circumstances that accompany this bill and which are unfortunately beyond its scope when it is adopted, let us ask you this question. If the oversight functions of local executives and local self - government authorities are extended to ensure that they exercise proper control over the game halls, it is clear that there are computer clubs in the gaming halls. Who, and how will this oversight take place in computer clubs? And how does a child sitting behind a computer and coming out of the Internet, what he's looking for there, and how he's going to use what he's looking for? In the videos, let's make sure that the very list of videos that exist in these videos is virtually out of control. And the kid who wants to see something there, he's going to watch it either in the library, in the video library, or outside of it, he's going to take the right movie and watch it. What, though, are ethical standards regarding children? You and I know very well, different parents, different even ethical standards for dealing with children and for following the generally accepted standards of behavior that these parents teach and which children should follow. And that's the question that's beyond this law. But we need to take a step with you to sort out a little bit more of the painful issues that we face in our lives and in the lives of our children, information and globalization. And in conclusion, I want to say that I'm absolutely not convinced that we're solving all the issues in this bill, but we're going to accept it, but I'm absolutely convinced that these issues can only be solved in one case when communism wins over capitalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u66	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Agree that the greatest discovery or revelation of the last time for us has been the discovery that our young people, our Ukrainian youth, are unique, beautiful, and wonderful. But not all of them. We have seen this literally in the last two months when our children have shown that in their souls, in their conscience, much more dignity, responsibility, morality, all the virtues that we have lost or forgotten. That's what I'm saying about those young people who came out with their civic stand against counterfeiting, against deception, against evil, who showed that they wanted to live in a new, honest moral country. Is it not the standard that is called for in the Child Protection Act? I'm one of the co-authors of this law, by the way. And I support the introduction of such an addition. Because by complimenting and giving due respect to our young people, who have proved to be unscathed, unforgettable, in spite of the disgraceful activities of many successive governments that have caused terrible unemployment, which have given low social standards to parents who have given a high level of paid higher education to young people, our young people have proved to be good. At the same time, there is a large part of Ukrainian youth, which is exactly what we have become to a certain extent known to the European world community, which is called the carefree, the homeless. That is why the introduction of such things in public institutions, the introduction of control over their activities, I think, is what we must do. And I have no doubt about what ethical standards are. Of course, looking at the subject of computer games is one question. But seeing what's happening around our youth is a very different question. After all, children are usually underage. They are children who do not have a proper family, a home comfort. They are children who go there and can find all kinds of gossip, violence, drug sales, and so on. So it seems to me that we should not simply, we are obliged, it is our duty to this part of the young, which has proved to be abandoned, lost control. This control will not only be legal, this control will be on the part of the local authorities, this control will eventually be to some extent the parent, which they have for various reasons, including the reasons that have led our society into active action, literally recently, to be in such clubs. So I'm asking you to support this innovation, and I think they are, by the way, in time, because we're entering a new honest moral era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u68	Yes, with the motives of Jaroslav Suhi, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I've asked for one minute of motivation, because major MPs, getting very often complaints from people about these activities, with the permission to say that today's centres of extra-school education, we see the complete helplessness of local self-government bodies that have no impact on them. I mean, what happened? Historically, when the system of out - of - school education and training of former pioneers’ palaces, former foreign - school groups, youths, and other groups that did not teach bad children, including children’s sports schools, broke down. Instead, we did not create anything new. We offered some kind of discotheque surrogate, computer clubs, entertainment centers, and the like. First of all, it's not ethical, but second of all, it's big money. And children from unsecured families in general today are deprived of such influence from preschool education. That's why I think this bill, and our faction, the Hard Ukraine, the NDP, is proposing to support this bill, because it at least puts it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u70	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act has been completed. [[on extra-school institutions]] The committee's proposal for adoption is based on the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[on extra-school institutions]] Registration number 6056. Please vote. [[11:20:35]] For 333 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee offered to adopt the bill as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act as a whole. [[on extra-school institutions]] Registration number 6056. Please vote. [[11:21:16]] For 339 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We need to turn it on. Consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law on the announcement of the natural areas of the city of Berdjanska Zaporezska Region by a resort of State importance. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law on the announcement of the natural territories of the city of Berdjanska Zaporezki district by the resort of State importance. Registration 6289, please vote. [[11:22:03]] For 348 The questions are included in the agenda, and we move on to its consideration. First Deputy Minister of Health Pedchenko Timur Viktorovic has the floor for the report. Prepare Loboda Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u71	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Law "On Advertising the Medical and Health Area of the City of Berdjanska Zaporezka Region as a State-owned resort" has been developed by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Resorts on the basis of the concerns of Zaporezki District Public Administration. The purpose of the act is to announce the health-care area of the town of Berdjanska Zaporezí region as a State-owned resort and to approve the district and areas of sanitary protection of the resort, which will facilitate the organization of agricultural activities in the resort area, the conservation of unique natural healing resources and the protection of the resort area. The state's epidemiological and environmental expertise, the conduct of ballenological research, has been carried out by the relevant accredited institutions of the professional ministries. The project was agreed without the attention of Mineconomy, Minfin, State Department, State Commission, Statebud, Minnukh and Minust. Legal regulation in the resort area is defined by Ukraine’s Land Code and by Ukrainian laws: resorts, environmental protection, environmental expertise, planning and construction, the basics of construction, and local self-government in Ukraine. The adoption of Ukraine's law does not provide for additional costs from Ukraine's State budget and will contribute to the preservation of resort and recreational areas, effective public policies in the resort area. Thank you for your attention. We're asking for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u72	Thank you, Timur Victorovich. Have a seat, please. Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will contribute to the implementation of State policy in the resort area, the provision and protection of the resort area and the natural resources of the ballenological resort. Presented to the district and sanitary areas of the Berdjansk resort today meet the requirements of environmental legislation, water and land codes of Ukraine, as well as the Ukrainian Law on Resorts. In view of the need to create conditions for the conservation of unique natural healing resources and the forward-looking development of the Berdjansk resort, the Committee supports its state-owned status and requests to be accepted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u74	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, for you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On board, please, the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled for the discussion. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u75	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, at the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, which also provides recreational facilities for the same resort areas as the city of Berdiansk of Zaporez. We have considered the draft law very carefully and have accepted the idea of proclaiming a particular area of the resort. the territory of the resort of national importance. So I want to support this bill in the first reading, as a member of the Communist faction, and as a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy. Here I would like to conclude the part of my speech that touches this bill and continue to take care of the state of health of the candidate for Presidentship of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka. The question is very difficult, and I want to say that after the Central Election Commission has announced the results of the third round, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko has to keep his promise and make a statement about who and how he poisoned him. He promised all of this to the entire Ukrainian nation. I made a proper request to the Ukrainian Security Service and had just received such an answer. I quote. "So far, the Ukrainian Security Service has not received any official document that would provide legal grounds for establishing both the fact that Victor Yushchenk was being poisoned and his place and time. So I think, your honorary colleagues, personally, that before the inauguration of Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko must do what he promised the Ukrainian community, this is the community before which he did it on the Main of Independence, and come out here, to us, and from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to declare who did it and how did it poison him. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u76	Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, followed by Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I'm forced to begin with the latest on the health of our President, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka. You can't wait and no one will. That's the first one. The other one. As for the responsibilities you put your trust in him, tell us who poisoned him. So there's the State Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to find, the Attorney General's Office to investigate the fact, and the court to convict the guilty. None of these organs did anything. So whoever told you that the Security Service didn't get the document is actually a security officer from Ukraine, I repeat. Do you understand? More specifically, Russian special forces. By the way, I want to tell you that with regard to our former colleague, Mr. Satsuk, he was in his position and after making a decision, he was writing papers, a whole series of documents. For example, he gave assignments to other substitutes as the first substitute. Please, Mr. Piscoon, reinstated by the Cave Court in a position that has no right to be the Attorney General in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, raise the registration number T-4611 of 16 December 2004 and you will be convinced that there were orders, and I will then show you ten of them, only then it will be inaction. Now it's up to someone who's poisoned and how someone has an answer and will be answered, believe me. And now, with regard to the Law, the Law on Resorts, which now exists, exists only on paper, because resorts are actually being destroyed. The government is not completely involved in the complexity of the building, in the provision of roads, and in its vitality. The government absolutely does not control the requirements of environmental legislation, the mountains in Crimea are destroyed, the Carpathians are cut down, the individual government officials from the State Committees are called simply hairdressers who cut the forest, so it is very good that we are now adopting the Law on the Natural Areas of the city of Berdjansk and declaring the areas of sanitary protection and setting up lakes with healing dirt: the Great, Medium, Red, and in Odessa the Kuilnik - the world-renowned Kuilnik is dying in Odessa and no one is taking any action. I'm going to the government that's not currently in the business, so far, by moving everything that's left in the state, using what's not now, kind of a transition period. I say, look at the other resorts, see what's going on there, look at the complexity and what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u78	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to two Yuris, so let's talk about this. Please, Yavorowski, follow him, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u79	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky and Rava Ruska Lvivščina Dear colleagues, I have before me this bill, and I would say, thinking about it, that: obviously we should, in addition to adopting such local dot laws, we should think about and work on the global system and, given the geopolitical situation of Ukraine, our climate conditions, our location in Europe, bearing in mind that we actually say that Western Europe is the ultimate resort point with the Black Sea and the Azov Sea. I think maybe even with this bill we're a little late and the hall should not, once again, be determined by Berdjansk, the next Saki bill, and it would be worth developing a general one, which means our program, the definition of resort areas in Ukraine, and proclaim it, give them an appropriate advertisement to make investments. And only then will we be able to solve this problem. Why should we do so? I have this amazing document in my hands, it's dated December 27, 2004, literally the second day after the election. It was made on a form signed by Panko, Head of Public Administration. You can imagine that the 26th round of the President's election is taking place, and Mr. Panko, who's in charge of State administration's affairs, is shutting down, and it's written, to stop the state-owned enterprise of the hotel "Ukraine" by eliminating it. You can imagine when a huge hotel complex, one of the best, it used to be our Supreme Council, then there was some kind of change, and it was exchanged at the Kiev Hotel. Today, this hotel is actually moving into someone else’s hands. I'm going to the Attorney General, and I'm going to prepare for tomorrow, of course, my parliamentary request, but I'm going to get right on it. I think it's possible to say that Mr. Panka is so lucky, and he's still out there. There's something to think about. Because of this, I support this bill just as much as the Saxons do, they're actually authentic. But I would just like to ask you, when these bills are being prepared, by the way, I don't even know who his author is, who was preparing them, but you have to put limits on them, because there are limits on Saka, and there are no limits on the Berdian. I am convinced that this will be a wonderful push for the Berdjansk, a beautiful town on the coast of the Azov Sea. Thank you. "Our Ukraine" will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u80	Vladimir Alexanderovich, you probably don't have papers, there are boundaries here, there are bounds, there are. You just probably didn't get a full look at the bill. Please, Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u81	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. There's really no long discussion here, as my colleagues said. Of course, there is a need for further consideration. And we actually need to do inventory. We may already have security zones, such as Berdjansk and other cities. All that's left of the folk is to look at it too. As far as we know, a lot of sanatoriums, a lot of shopping, a lot of things that have gone into the state administration of affairs with the President of Ukraine, have gone from being national to becoming nothing but the oligarchs they've been buying. That's why there's work to be done. But this will be done by the government, the Attorney General's Office, the BSS, the IMF, where they will be the leaders of the new or the people who will be entrusted by the elected President. I wish today, Adam Ivanovich, you made a note, but do not touch the health of the President of Ukraine or anything else. I have a document in my hands signed by the head of the Consular Service Department, Tochecki has one, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What did they do? In carrying out some agreement signed by the Cabinet of Ministers, since January 1, 2005, the border services that are located on the border of Ukraine-Moldova have left the right for our people to visit relatives, relatives and relatives there. Ninety percent of people living in the Chernobyl region in Novoselecki, Khelmenecki. Dry, sit down, please. Abandoned rights. They visited their relatives and loved ones. And that's why I'm calling on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to come back to this issue. In order to produce a foreign passport, it certainly takes money. Who today has, whether they have pensioners or other people who are socially humiliated and unsecured. We need to get back to this, because there has to be a simplified border crossing with Moldova. It is also a right to visit relatives and relatives in the Republic of Moldova. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u82	Yes, for the reasons of the Dry One. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, Trudova Ukraine, NDP. We will support this bill, but I have two warnings, two requests. First, there is no politics at all, there is no need for politics. And secondly, Moldova is not Berdyansk! He may have meant Beelzi or Dubossara. Let's be on this rostrum, not disgrace ourselves and the entire MP Corps. One more. There's a basic resort law. The availability of the medical resources of the necessary infrastructure is the basis for us to adopt this bill. But there's another reason why we're using our own local resources. I want to refer to the members of the Solidarity Group, Peter Poshenko -- remember the memory of the National MP, our colleague Vladi Aribaj -- he has made an effort here that the city of Berdjansk has become a resort city. Today, Ivan Mikhailovich Bastriga does this. We all shared the introduction of water and gas. And we need to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, please prepare, the voting process is about to take place. May I have your attention, please? There is a motion for a committee to vote on the adoption as a basis of the draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas. Registration number 6289. Please vote. Here comes the vote, my dear fellows. Please vote. [[11:40:04]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to accept this project as a matter of law as a whole. No warning? One minute, cancel the vote. Stanislaw Nikolaynka, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u85	Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Socialist Party faction, Nikolainko, Hersonian. I support the need to vote in favour of this bill, and in the second reading, this is extremely important. The only thing I want to do is ask the profile committee to take a closer look at this area, because next to Berdjansky is, let's say, a Genician with an Arab arrow -- a unique phenomenon for the recovery of the drive and the like, so that we can. And Kirilovka, and so on, so that we can spread this practice. This will benefit both the budgets today, the people, and Ukraine as a whole. And I'm in charge of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u86	That's very right. Obviously, we need to do this and protect it to be state property. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A proposal for adoption by a committee as a whole is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Law on the Announcement of Natural Areas of the City of Berdjansk Zaporezki Region by a State-owned resort. Registration 6289, please vote. [[11:41:38]] For 348 Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In accordance with yesterday's decision of the Conciliation Council, we are not voting today to include in the agenda a draft decision on the withdrawal of the United States peacekeeping contingent from the Republic of Iraq. Registration number 6479. Puts to the vote the inclusion in the agenda. [[11:42:28]] For 318 Questions are included in the agenda. Yes, please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, author of the draft decision. Prepare Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! The Communist faction proposes to return to the question of the urgent withdrawal of the United States peacekeeping contingent from Iraq. This has also been caused by tragic events that have increased the number of dead Ukrainian peacekeepers to 18 and wounded to almost 30. Our faction has always been known to oppose the deployment of Ukrainian military forces, where they were in danger every day. We were unable to support the President's decision, approved by the majority of the Supreme Council, including the responsibility for the death of our military personnel and the representatives of the "Our Ukraine" faction who voted in favour of the deployment. Joining the so-called coalition forces in Iraq meant, first of all, solidarity with American-British aggression against this country, turning Ukraine into actually a book of occupations, and second of all, by imposing this decision on the Supreme Council, Kuchma tried to rekindle the lives of our compatriots and to continue his presidency. We have repeatedly said that it will not be lost. And that's why we asked questions about the recall of our soldiers from Iraq. Regrettably, only on December 3, last year, when the problem of our compatriots became the subject of cynical speculation by applicants for the presidency, including Yushchenka. But President Kuchma actually ignored the decision of the Supreme Council -- and here's the tragic finale. In expressing our sincere sympathy to our loved ones and to our peacemakers, we must say that what has happened is a direct result of a shameful, deeply anti - national policy in Ukraine. So we have proposed that we return to this issue and take the decision to invite the President of Ukraine to take immediate action to implement the Supreme Council Order from December 3rd last year -- and immediately recall the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from Iraq. In this regard, it is worth recalling that decisions to recall peacekeeping contingents from Iraq have already been made and implemented by several member states of the so-called anti-Iraq coalition. The first was Spain. A recent decision was taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Hungary, although the Government of Iraq requested Hungary’s leadership to leave the Hungarian contingent of about 300 military personnel until the end of 2005. But the Hungarian government. And the Hungarian government has proposed to parliament that the military contingent be continued there for three months, until 31 March of this year. Hungarian parliamentarians may have been more concerned about the lives and safety of their military than the government of that country. During the month, the withdrawal decision was implemented. Therefore, there is no reason to extend the withdrawal of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent for a year. I would ask my colleagues, as well as our voters, to do everything I can to ensure that your position in relation to, let's say, the assessments of these events, as well as the need for the withdrawal of our military personnel, are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u88	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee supports the bill. What was I going to say? Sadly, it took a great deal of tragedy to understand the need for our troops to be removed from Iraq and to have the minds of those who are now in power. You've probably all heard on TV yesterday, on the radio, that the President has given two ministers a mandate to make specific proposals on the plan, the schedule for the withdrawal of our troops for one-half of this year. That's good. But our committee believes that a decision should be made with at least three motives. First. As an expression of the will of all the people, the Supreme Council cannot but express its position at a time when such a terrible tragedy took place. It's different. We took a decision, asked the President on 3 December to approve an order for our peacekeepers to be removed from Iraq. Unfortunately, it has been a month and a half, and our decision is ignored. And the Supreme Council can't help but testify to its position. And the third. I think we should help the President. You must have all heard that the Americans had already proposed. They said that the issue of resolving our contingent should be decided by agreement with the coalition forces. We have to agree, but it was said that when we said that we were going to see if we were going to let you out or if we weren't going to let you out. Well, and a frank statement that the decision to withdraw the contingent must be made by the new president. We will probably not wait for the inauguration when the change of power takes place, for it is the lives of our fellow countrymen. Therefore, we ask that we support the proposal to make a decision. In view of the very right observation of scientific experts, we propose to remove from paragraph 2 a provision on the use of urgent measures to implement the decision, because the Supreme Council cannot propose to the President to do so. And to put it this way: "Reaffirm the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its decision of 3 December 2004 to recall our contingent and invite the President of Ukraine to withdraw immediately the peacekeeping contingent from the Republic of Iraq." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u90	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Please note that the name of the national MPs who signed up to participate in the discussion is on the table. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov. Dear colleagues! Suggestion: To complete the consideration of the matter, to make a decision, then to announce a recess. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u91	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! This morning in the media, the Internet has already reported that the U.S. Department of State is giving the government an orange revolution, that God will not allow you to consider this issue before the inauguration takes place and there will be no appointment of a new Cabinet of Ministers. And I want us to ask ourselves that question. And if this goes down even to the European Court of Justice, is it not clear when this inaugural orange president will take place by a minority of the Ukrainian people? And when will the new Cabinet of Ministers take place? We have a lot to put on the line when Uncle Sam gives us instructions, so, personally, we need to make a decision now and we need to make this decision for President Kuchma Leonid Danilovich. And perhaps by signing such an order, he will do it to the Ukrainian people, because he did it against him and at least part of his guilt, at least part of his guilt will be overturned. So let's take that into account. And to that, the United States of America, if they weren't there. which call themselves a democratic community, they are now becoming more and more violently hated by the peoples of Africa and Asia at the outset. And even though Uncle Seven was a soldier's boot in any part of the world, anywhere in the world. for today, he gets the answer and the opposition that's going to increase and spread. So once again, I urge you, and I ask you very much: let's do a good job at the beginning of the new year, give a huge gift to the Ukrainian people and to our soldiers who are dying in Iraq and bring them back to their homes as soon as possible. I believe that our Ukrainian people, regardless of who he voted for, will be grateful for such a courageous, responsible step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u92	Vladimir Puzakov. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u93	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Every day it becomes clear that man, and all the more his life, in our country, is simply worth nothing compared to the orange revolution. Today, our people died again in Iraq, our children were orphaned again, and our parents were protecting their children again. At 20 hours, people were waiting to hear from the television screen in the latest news about the terrible tribulation for our country, the loss of 8 young people on a foreign land, but there were more important news: the elections in Palestine, the floods in the Baltic Sea, the consequences of a natural disaster in Africa. At the end they found a minute to say a few words about what people were waiting for. That is how we value our people. What are they dying for? Whose honor do they protect? Is it such a low price for human life? Why is no one who sends our children to the hot spots responsible? Where are the people’s patriots in paws that show that their hands are clean? But with these hands, did you press the buttons to vote for our troops to enter Iraq? On your conscience, there are 20 deaths in Iraq, and none of you have stood up for those young people, none of you have taken the place of those parents who raised those children. Your children don’t understand the orphan’s life either. Only Communists led by the faction leader, Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko, were firm against our boys' deployment to Iraq. For two years, only the Communists fought and fought constantly to get our contingent out of Iraq. Two months ago, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko called for the immediate withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. Still, everything is still quiet and quiet, and there is no time, for some are busy in search of how to hide, and others on Maidan are busy. And I don't understand your position, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, what is the issue that Iraq's approved decision is not being implemented. Why and by whom is it ignored? Is it that the Supreme Council has already abandoned its voting rights? Who gave the Secretary of Defense the right to claim that it is not yet time to withdraw our troops from Iraq, languages, the financial side does not allow it to do so quickly. And for what financials, Mr. Minister, did our people go there? Who then financed them? When you have not yet paid for those finances, form battalions from your relatives and send them there, and our boys from Ukraine are required to return to their homeland immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u94	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u95	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, the Party of Native Defenders has consistently asked the question of the inability to send our contingent to Iraq. Called and qualified this part of the conquest, qualified it long before the United Nations as an occupation. It was unacceptable to refer troops from the point of view of international law. Sadly, though, they did not listen to us. I want to see why there's no Kuzmuk today. He's a deputy, is he a minister? Here you praised him for doing so well. Today, there are still eight injured. The whole faction was then both "Urrigible Ukraine" and "Regions of Ukraine", for which today virtually everyone who today is yelling that they were "for". You supported this government. You are his representative, the Prime Minister, and you have supported the presidency. People good, don't show me your fists, you better show yourself. Raise your vote. You sent people to Iraq, didn't you? Let's go. And today you're suggesting that I pay my salary to spend it now. Therefore, Your Honor, no government department is giving orders to President Yushchenk. You have to understand that clearly. This may have been the case, but it was someone else. I'd like to ask the honourable authors of the decree. I'm going to vote for it, although there's a little bit of a leak. Why do you place your control over the execution of this decree on the deputy head of Zinchenko's Supreme Council? What is removed from the position of Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania? Is there not the first Deputy Head? Why, What Is the Problem? Why do you pay attention to Zinchenko? What is he responsible for these units for the army? What's the matter? So let's go, ladies and gentlemen, this is a responsible matter. We're going to have her controlled by the Chief of the Supreme Council. I have respect for Alexander Zinchenko, but I believe that the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine still has control over this issue. And, honourable national MPs, I would ask you not to make us answer, so that we have to answer, spend our time on completely pointless and baseless accusations, which continue to sound like our Ukraine or President Viktor Yushchenk, who is obviously all the countries that are already hailing, it is not obvious that a few people who have been thinking about turning Ukraine into a "bandostan." I'll vote "for" and "Our Ukraine" faction too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u96	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u97	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Novoyavorysk, Zovkva, Rava Ruska, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka block Well, I'd like to say first, literally, to my colleague Carmazin, that what they put on Zinchenko obviously means that he's simply very and very much trusted. The other one. Dear colleagues, it ends, from my point of view, of course, one, perhaps from the most disgraceful periods of our Ukrainian history. Thank God, it's over. The CIA has announced a new president. And really in our country, there's a lot and a lot and a lot and a lot that needs to be changed. I have a moral right to speak on this subject, because I have never voted in favour of sending our boys to Iraq. No one gave me such a moral right to send other people’s children to certain dangers but, as it turns out, even death. So I think I have a moral right to talk about it in the same way that I didn't vote to send them to Liberia. We understand perfectly that this was a campaign and many voted, of course, only under pressure already, I can tell you, the ex-president of Ukraine in order to support his total zero authority. It is absolutely clear today that this was a fatal political mistake, and it would be very good if, with the end of this period of history, our boys were brought out of there. But I would like to emphasize perhaps the most important thing I want to say. Dear colleagues, we need to work in this Parliament. A new period of our history begins, I have no doubt. And let's not hesitate today, let's not try to privatise the right to what we are, to get the boys out of Iraq. He's got Parliament. I'm actually, frankly, this is probably the last thing that happens to us that we've already made up our mind, Kuchma doesn't want to do it. And we accept it again. Of course, we're voting for this because these last deaths are some last bloody signal about what we're going to do in Iraq. We've already been promised here, from this rostrum and Marchuk, and a lot of people who will line us up there, that there will be oil rivers, that there will be everything. Where is it, I want to ask? We've got absolutely nothing out of it. We have a quasi-army today, and we need to talk about today's huge fault of the Secretary of Defense. I've already told you, don't let Israeli planes fly today, because there's a minister of defense who can beat them up, let the people in Barbara hide in funerals, while Kuzmuk leaves the ministers, because there might be new training. We vote, I'm sure, to get our boys out of Iraq and get them out now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u98	Yes, dear fellows, now the head of the committee concludes. Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, please turn on the microphone. May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u99	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have nothing to say. I do not object to the proposal to put control over the execution of the decree on both the Head and the First Deputy. But as far as I know, the issue of national security and defence should be dealt with by the deputy head of the Zinchenko Supreme Council. And so, I think it makes sense that this proposal is made. Maybe I'm wrong about that, but I don't deny that there will be a colleague of Lithuania or a colleague of Martiniuk. And the second. I think we can talk a lot right now, who and how he behaved. Take the printery, who and how he voted, and it will become clear. And we need to get out of Iraq, just like we didn't have to bring our peacekeepers in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we've already settled here. And the leadership of the National Security and Defence Committee is recorded under Alexander Zinchenko. So it's okay here. One minute! I can't. Edward Josephovich, why are you indignant? First read the Rules and then be indignant. You have to sign up, and then you're indignant. I want to say again, don't be indignant! You’re so rare to appear — and you’re indignant! Please, Stepan Bulba. And then Gurvitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u101	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. As a professional military reminder, the Socialists have never supported the deployment of our military forces to Iraq and have always advocated their immediate return. But at the same time, I remind some of the other facts. I'm against speculation about this important problem, because, let's say, before the presidential election, the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, after visiting Iraq, made some other points about the possibility of immediate return. For example, the Communist Domansky, a member of this committee, directly claimed the impossibility of an immediate return. So let's make the necessary decision without noise, once again confirm our position, and we will seek to comply with the Supreme Council's decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u102	National MP Gurvitz, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the operation in Iraq is essential to ensuring world peace and stability. Ukraine has carried out an important mission and has fulfilled its allied obligations by participating in this operation against the forces of terrorism. The trouble that has occurred has been caused by our military leadership. That's exactly the same thing that happened in Brovar, and they hit a foreign plane over the Black Sea. And all this was done under the leadership of Minister Kuzmuk. Dozens of our troops are killed in the Ukraine ranges, and every day there are casualties. We are trying for advocacy purposes to deprive Ukraine of our most important mission to combat terrorism. Have the soldiers asked the contingent whether they wanted to leave Iraq? It's the Communists. Though Saddam Hussein shot all his own, everyone must remember that their rest abroad were paid by the bloody oil dollars of this bloody dictator. I therefore believe that any vote will be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u104	Domansky, the replica. His last name was. Domansky's handing over the right to reply to Georgi Korniovich Kručkov, please. Please, George Korniyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! One of the performances made such a statement as if I had another position after visiting peacekeepers in Iraq. I've never had a position other than one: I've been and I'm staying at that it was a mistake to send peacekeepers there. That's the first one. The other one. I noted that our people there worked honestly and loyally, and this must be taken into account. Third. I argued that we should stop the military format of our participation in Iraq and develop as much of our opportunities for economic and other cooperation with Iraq as possible. This, in Odessa, is said to be two differences. But my colleague has probably been specializing in casting a shadow on my personality lately. It won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6479 on the withdrawal of the peacekeeping contingent of Ukraine from the Republic of Iraq with the clarifications expressed by the head of the committee, is put to the vote. Puts to the vote for adoption as a whole. [[12:07:35]] For 308. It's been decided. It's being announced. The factions? One minute, by the factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 41, 57, communists - 59, SDPU - 28, National Agrarian - 5, "One Ukraine" - 17, SPU - 20, Timoshenko - 16, "Trudova Ukraine", NDP - 18, "Soyuz" - 16, "Deminiciative - 3, Center - 4, non-fractional 24. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u107	Invite the deputies to the session room, we'll keep working. A draft decree to announce the health and medical area of Saki, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, is being announced. Reports by the Rachansky Anatoly Warfolomyovich and the coreporter will be the first deputy to the Head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood - Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please, Anatoly Bartholomew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u108	Anatoly Rahansky, Eupatoria constituency Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a draft decree to announce the healing and healing area of Saka, the autonomous Republic of Crimea, of national importance. In 2000, the Supreme Council adopted the Law on Resorts, which established the organizational, economic, and social foundations for the development of Ukrainian resorts, foresaw the protection of their medical resources and natural areas. The time has come for practical steps to implement the development policy of the resort-recreational sphere. Courses: Rabbits, Morshin, Hmelnik, Yalta, Alushta, Eupatoria, Saki, Mirrod, Odessa, Berdjansk, and others known in Europe and the world. In the '70s, in the '80s, they were taken to the state level, and the Saki resort, which is what this is about, is a nationwide resort. The Saxon mudslides of biochemical composition and balneological properties are known from a long time ago, and they are not. They are used by Ukrainian health workers from Crimea to Lviv. About 100 diseases are being treated in Saki's health clinics, but the main medical profile of the resort is the treatment of spinal and genealogical patients. Only in a specialized sanatorium for the Burdenkos in 30 years have more than 100,000 patients been cured, with spinal and spinal injuries, most of whom have regained their ability to move themselves. The Saxon City Council, according to the Law on Resorts of Ukraine, has prepared a concern for the discovery of Saka’s natural territory by a resort of State importance, supported by the Council of Ministers and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, agreed with the ministries and offices of Ukraine. The project does not require government and local budgets. It's supported by the profile committees and the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues. This draft decree was prepared during 2002-2003. And time has shown that Saxons ’ unique mud and resources are at risk of pollution, land dispossession, and construction. They need immediate protection at the level of law, not regulations. Therefore, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Kabmin, is proposing that this decision be made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of a bill, rather than a decree to declare the healing and health area of Saka as a public resort. Text does not change, name and type of legal document changes. For example, today we passed the Berdian Act, and I congratulate the Berdian for the first law on State resort. I ask your colleagues to agree to such a replacement and accept as a basis, as a bill and as a law as a whole. The profile committee doesn't deny it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u109	Thank you, Anatoly Bartholomew. Have a seat, please. From the committee, please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda, the first deputy head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. We've already discussed a similar law with you at the Berdian resort. This law is virtually no different from the previous law today. The committee considered its meeting and supported the proposal. And what I'm saying is that the Cabinet of Ministers is also supporting this bill by the People's Deputy of Rahanski. So there is a proposal to adopt the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u111	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Yeah, let's move on to the performances. Please explain the name of the national MPs on the board. Zara Katusheva, a faction of Communists, is invited to speak, and Yuri Karmazin will speak next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u112	The Communist faction will unquestionably support the bill, support the initiative of our criminal Rahanski. And we really believe that the city of Saki has long come to see the need to give it the status of a public resort in order not to embalm this unique corner of Crimean land. We also believe that it is necessary to regulate, not by a decree, namely, the Supreme Council, but by enacting the law of Ukraine. As a Crimean spokesman, I am particularly interested in this issue. As a Crimea resident, I would like to emphasize that Saki is indeed one of the oldest resorts in Crimea. The uniqueness of the resort is its healing dirt. The nature that is in Sakach and the famous salty Lake of Sak, in which we receive the Saxon famous mud. Officially, the world’s first dirty resort was declared in Sachs in 1828. But the rest of the Crimea and the mudslide began to mix long before that. Thus, during the Russian-Turkish War of 1854-1855, the famous surgeon Pyrogov recommended that it be the Saxon mud for early recovery procedures. At the beginning of the 20th century, the Nabban and Burdenko academics developed the scientific bases for defamation in the treatment of various diseases. The uniqueness of our Saki resort is also that here in a small territory there are gathering together and have a positive impact on the human body of a variety of treatment factors, favourable to the climate characteristics of the Saki resort. We still have to take into account the fact that more than 2.5 thousand hours in Saki's sunny days per year, terminal and mineral sources, salt lake, world-renowned lil's healing mud, target rap, dendropark, near sea -- all of this has a beneficial effect on human health. The main treatment factor at the Saki resort is the treatment mud, which consists of the actual entire periodic table. Only a few world-class prostitutes have treatment mud in their unique properties, comparable to the healing dirt of the Saqsa Salt Lake. There is a mineral water source at the resort, which was opened in 1956. In the chemical composition, mineral water is similar to that of Essentuki-4, which enables patients with chronic diseases to be treated with food organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u113	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to speak. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u114	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, certainly the question that is raised, and I am very glad that it is raised today, and these questions have finally been put into the agenda, although they have been introduced a long time ago, on the announcement of the healing and healing area of Saki City of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by the resort of State importance. Saki resort. Undoubtedly, and during the postwar period, government decrees on Saka’s Sanitary Protection District were approved, and later consideration was given. Now that we have adopted the Water Code, the Land Code, the Law of Ukraine on resorts, there is a need for the adoption of a similar Law that we have just passed in the city of Berdjansk. So we have to go according to the legislative technique exactly the same. A normative act by Mr. Rahanski is now being proposed, which is called the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's what I'm stressing. That is, the content is absolutely correct, the content is absolutely consistent with what is to be provided by law, and this is provided in the form of a decree. So, honourable national MPs, in order for our discussion, the couple not to come out of the whistle, I invite the author and representatives of the committee to immediately say that we are making changes, we propose that we do it by law, so that this is fixed here, although this is not provided for, we have to make it in writing. This needs to be done now, because a decree, not a law, is registered in accordance with the Rules. Now register to do so today's number, and in order of exclusion, if you want, ad hoc will assign us the Rules to accept it today and keep it. Because it started to be completely unthinkable in the resort area. And to attract public investment primarily to make Saki a world-renowned resort and to make it possible to heal people every year and throughout the year. In this way we will preserve the health of our people. And I'll tell you that this project is very well done by the relevant departments of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and I've studied it. It's all very well, except for one: we have to register the bill at the same number. And I propose that you accept, in the first and second readings, that you do not carry on with the introduction of this law into life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u115	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u116	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear fellow Ukrainians who listen to us! I want to remind one, from my point of view, of a very important detail, a very important legend: they say that when the Lord God distributed the land, the Ukrainians, as always, were late, and came somewhere as late as the last, but something very pleasing to God, and when it was found that they also wanted to take the land, he thought, and then he pulled it out of the round of this land and said, "This is what I have left for himself, but, God be with you, take it for yourself. Obviously, this must be remembered by every Ukrainian, and most of all, it must be remembered by our unformed, unelected, but inevitably by an active, new Ukrainian government. I've already spoken in my speech on Berdjansk. I just want to repeat once again that what we have received as an inheritance from the Lord God, in fact, all Ukraine can be a colossal resort, especially on the coast of Crimea, the Azova Sea, and, in fact, nothing special is the same as our Carpathians. It was worth it for the new president to go skiing, as I reported that virtually all businessmen had moved, in a hurry to buy these suits, skis, and so forth, and put orange scarfs on their necks. A special point of view may be that we should turn to Crimea. However it may be, we know that Crimea has become a victim of bush privatization today. And today another project is involved in Crimea. [[I just want the national MPs to know, and those who hear us today.]] When the Supreme Council of Crimea reportedly transferred the functions of land distribution and, more specifically, the sale of land to rural and rural councils. You can imagine what's going on there. You have to give a copy of the passport, you have to give some money, and they will give you a piece of land, better, near the sea itself, or a little bit further. I mean, Crimea, frankly, is at risk at all. Kuchmina’s entire team has actually captured this southernmost piece of Crimea, which is under the protection of the Kuchma family, Medvedchuk family, and so on. Because of what we're going to accept about Sak today, it's very true. But I am convinced that we need to prepare one big program. And in fact, the whole of the Black Sea coast is Ukrainian and Asian -- declare it a resort zone. Because if we take one at a time, we can forget something. This bill must be voted on, taking into account what Yuri Carmazin said. This should not be a determination, and this should be a parity law, just like the Berdian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u117	Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u118	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In order not to be offended by the authors of this bill, I repeat, who spoke in the city of Berdjansk, that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine would support the bill and vote in favour. Certainly giving the healing area of Saki the status of the State resort, the approval of the district and the sanitary zone. mining and health care at Saki resort is all it takes, and we will support it. But I would like to go again to those colleagues of mine who would like to interrupt when a national deputy is speaking. Tell me, as a national MP with a mandate of trust, if I'm anchored in the Chernobyl area and had a meeting in the Novoseltsky region in 15 villages in literally 10 days with the electorate, and all in one voice were saying, "Look what our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has introduced with regard to the transition from 1 January 2005 to a new order of crossing the Ukrainian-Moldov state border." So tell me, please, do I have no right to raise this real problem in Parliament? Today, some 80,000 locals live in the Novoselick region. They all have relatives and relatives in Moldova. And let's just please make one statement and introduce foreign passports at a time when 80-90 percent of the population in this area does not have foreign passports. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is proud that they are very hardworking, that they do everything. But how do you do, dear, if you have so restricted the crossing, across the border of Ukraine and Moldova?Oh, my God! What is the openness, the transparency of our borders? Is that, is that communication? And that's why I'm just asking Vladimir Mikhailovich to give an assignment to our profile committee to draw attention to the orders of the Consular Department of Foreign Affairs under the signature of the Tochitsky Ministry, which limits the rights of citizens across the border, the communication of relatives, with relatives in Moldova. We don't have to do this today when we speak for being a nation that moves to Europe and we don't know where we're going. I'm doing this here, and I'm asking on behalf of hundreds of thousands of people who live in Novoselick, Kelminack, Sokerian and other border areas with the Republic of Moldova. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u119	Thank you, too. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments for the problems that Michael Melniczuk has caused. Dear colleagues! Discussion of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the announcement of the healing and health area of Saki City of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by a State-owned resort has been completed. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce the healing and healing area of Saki of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea as a public resort. [[Registration number 5712]] Please vote. [[13:02:53]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes that this document be accepted as a decision. Is there no objection? That's why I'm voting for the approval of the entire Supreme Council's draft decree on the announcement of the healing and healing area of Saki, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, of state importance. [[Registration number 5712]] [[13:03:29]] For 311 It's been decided. Please, Anatoly Rahansky. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! A proposal was made by the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers to declare the town of Saka and the autonomous Republic of Crimea as a public resort as the Saki resort as the Law. We made changes to the Law last month in December. I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to support and vote as a law. Changes have already been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, one minute, let's not turn the Supreme Council into something we don't know. First, there is no draft law of this kind in the Supreme Council, I just checked it out, it's not registered, I'm still remembering that I'm signing it. Secondly, I am reading to you, my fellow Members, that according to part two of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on resorts, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must decide to declare natural territories as resorts of State importance after the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as no draft law, is only the support of a draft decree by the Cabinet of Ministers. There'll be a bill -- we'll look into it. And let us now thank the Supreme Council for accepting such a determination. The draft decree, the creation of an all - Ukrainian rehabilitation center, for those who are under constant psychological stress, is announced. Reporter Ivan Jaroslavovich Gavriluk, please the National MP and the author of the project. The focal point will be the head of the Committee, Mikola Eframovich Poljczek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u122	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, colleagues, well-being, first of all, allow me to welcome you with the completion of the election of President of Ukraine, during which most of us lived in a state of constant stress. I'm saying stress because stressful situations don't just arise in events like the extreme elections of the President of Ukraine. There are many other situations in which people are subjected to high psychological pressures and are under stress, and there is a mass of such professions. Stress situations may arise, as in military operations or similar operations, such as the release of hostages, is an example. And in carrying out certain high - risk technological processes, both for their performers and for people involved in some way. This is what happens when air traffic controllers, nuclear power stations, operate. It could also be in metallurgy, it could be in militia personnel, it could be in any profession. Because their smallest error can result in the death of many. The same is true of peacekeepers who are involved in military operations at hot spots in many parts of our planet. Any doctor will say that constant stress is the cause of many diseases, including severe diseases, and it's very serious. All of you must remember the so - called Afghan syndrome when young boys after taking part in combat for a long time were unable to adapt to a civil and peaceful way of life, expressing their protest in the form of antisocial acts. They're still fighting, I know people like that myself. Taking into account the importance of timely and systematic, psychological, and physical rehabilitation of military and personnel involved in stress and increased risk to life, the draft decree was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project is intended to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the creation of an all - Ukrainian rehabilitation centre for individuals whose professional activities are related to stress and increased risk to the lives and health of their staff, and to anticipate, of course, the cost of their operation. The rehabilitation center is being proposed to establish the Kuibisheva Sanatorium, Yalta, in Crimea. This sanatorium has appropriate psychological and physical rehabilitation technologies that have been successfully tested and have demonstrated high efficiency and reliability in various areas of health and health care. We estimate that the cost of rehabilitation of 300 people per month per year is 7 million dollars. This amount can be reduced by covering part of the expenditure by social funds or related enterprises, departments, and departments. But the experience of eliminating the threat of crisis shows that it always takes less money than it does to eliminate its consequences. In this case, it is not only about money but also about the health and life of our citizens. We have finalized the draft regulation, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood and
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u123	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u124	One sentence. And the National Security and Defence Committee. Thank you for your attention, and I am very grateful for your support. I'm going to tell myself that I've been on the verge of life and death many times, and that's why I know how hard it is to get out of it both mentally and psychologically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u125	Thank you, Ivan Jaroslavovich. I think that's what the MPs need, too, is a rehabilitation center, because we're under constant stress.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u126	Of course, so are people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u127	Yeah. Thank you, Ivan Jaroslavovich. Have a seat, please. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee generally supports a legislative initiative designed to protect the mental health of certain categories of people who carry out certain kinds of work, professions, services that may endanger their lives and mental health. At the same time, we believe that the individual positions of the draft decree on the sanatorium, which proposes the establishment of the All-U.S. Rehabilitation Centre, its sources of funding and subordination, require technical legal and editorial work. For example, we offer paragraphs one, two and three of the draft decrees to merge by renumbering the draft regulations by making this provision. Instruct the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine into a two-week period to consider and decide on the possibility of establishing a Ukrainian Medical and Social Rehabilitation Centre based on the Kuibisheva Sanatorium or another sanatorium. At the same time, we need to know in whose order there is a sanatorium where it is proposed to do so. Solve the issue of the inclusion of the Ukrainian Centre for Psychological Rehabilitation in a list of health institutions that ensure the performance of public functions and are financed by the National Budget of Ukraine. The sixth item of the project is proposed in this section. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will inform the Supreme Council of the progress made in implementing this decree in March 2005. This is as it is today, considering that there is no Cabinet of Ministers, it can be placed not earlier than in May 2005. In view of the above, taking into account the conclusion of the Supreme Scientific and Expert Office and the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 15.09.2004 on the adoption of the draft on the basis of the draft, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ordinance on the Establishment of the All-U.S. Rehabilitation Centre for Persons Who Are Constantly Subject to Psychological Stress by the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Sokirk and Gabrieluk, to adopt and entrust the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood with its work taking into account the observations and proposals made by the legal entities of the legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u129	Let's move on, dear fellows, to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin is invited to speak, a faction of Communists. Vladimir Puzakov will speak after Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u130	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, in the age of information technology, when information wars are being waged, when a man, an ordinary man, a small Ukrainian gets a huge psychological strain when he can't figure out the information that comes to him from all sides, and he says, "I'm disappointed in everything, go all of you!" And he's in a state where he's out of our society. This is the kind of person we need to care for when we discuss this bill. Ukraine’s citizens are involved in areas and productions that involve risks to life and health, and they really need systematic rehabilitation. That is why there is a need to create such a preventive rehabilitation center as to prevent and protect the mental health of such people. There is a specific medical facility, a sanatorium called Kuibisheva in Yalta. This is true of both peacekeepers and IMF workers and other categories of experts in the area of combat. Yes, it's stated in a financial and economic context for the draft decision on the establishment of this centre. Moreover, if these people, and especially those I have stressed, are going to be cured and rehabilitated at the expense of the State budget, then the rehabilitation of other categories of experts, these are the operational staff of nuclear power plants, air traffic controllers, and so forth, is offered, but not confidently proposed, to heal on a commercial basis. This is really a question that needs to be further explored how the sources of maintenance of this rehabilitation center should be distinguished. And, of course, we should agree with the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Authority on the need to clarify the name of the project, namely "the creation of an interdisciplinary rehabilitation centre", taking into account the President's decree on this matter. And I would like to conclude by saying this: about a few years ago, we went to Ukraine to pick up Kiev's white collars. After this whistleblower ended, 600 of these whites were admitted to scientific and medical institutions, and to restore them to normal conditions, psychological rehabilitation was required for two years, up to six years. And I want to ask you this question: those who have passed the orange fields, how many years will it take to get them back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u131	Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists, has a word. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u132	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The decision to establish a rehabilitation center is a major social project that highlights the State’s concern about the fate of their fellow countrymen on their physical and psychological condition. The creation of such a center will have a positive effect on the health of certain categories of workers. But this decision came out late, for today there are also members of the Supreme Council who need immediate evacuation to this center. This is especially true of some deputies who do not control their actions and conduct that have forgotten morals and ethics. I'm talking to an MP who runs the Pravex Bank. First of all, it's a shame for you to hide from the Christian-liberal party. Second of all, you don't play the part of a joke. You need to heal your psyche immediately, and hurry until the rehab center is loaded. It is a shame to listen to the nonsense you often bring from this supreme rostrum of the state. Who gave you the right to humiliate a person’s dignity? Before talking about a person’s integrity, consider your integrity. Your whole ideology is built only on a lie, to put it mildly. And the fact that you're a master in this case is already known to all the people of Ukraine. And as an example, I want to say. You were approached by a young person who became disabled, a medical worker in the region of Kyrovograd, New Ukraine. She asked for material support for a complex operation in Kiev, but she needed at least two thousand bracelets. You promised her as well as many other people as a millionaire because you boasted about it, but you cheated on that man until the last day. She sent me a letter asking me if all such nationals were liars. But during the election campaign you pretended to be such a good lamb! In fact, you're just a scary person. So think about your actions. You're a man with a rich life experience, once a respected man in the DA's office. And how can you fall so low today, insulting the leader of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek, and all Communists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u133	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I will first make it clear that I am in favour of this project, and as soon as possible, for the new government to be a guide, that it should create such an all-U.S. rehabilitation centre for people whose professional activities are related to psychological stress and increased risk to the lives and health of staff. In this regard, Vladimir Mikhailovich, your proposal to include in this list and MPs is absolutely correct, because how can I react today if within a few hours from the beginning of the day I received a dozen calls from Odessa. People today are in fear of what they are. They say that now Ruslan Bodelan - Oedesian city chief is preparing to flee abroad so that no charges can be brought against him. To that end, he takes a vacation and so forth. I'm saying this to the Attorney General. Mr. Piscoon, there are actions -- non-departure subscription and so on -- and make sure that the devaluations don't get psychological stress, and make sure that we don't get stress from turning people to rule of law and order. Clearly, then, our profession should also be applied to those who are experiencing these stresses, as Vladimir Mikhailovich said. As far as funding is concerned. 8 million financial justifications that are here are coins. Even 7, explains the author. These are in comparison to the fact that each organ is lost today even on tenders. Put it in your pocket! And now we're doing a colossal action to study this. Now, there's a lot of people working around here, and we're convinced that there's already a billion of them that's only going to steal from the tenders. Departments and Offices. So, honourable national MPs, I propose in paragraph 6 of the Order. paragraph 6, in a month's time, it is necessary to exclude all legal acts from here. Next. Agree with the committee's editor, which is now reported by the chairman of the Polish Committee, and adopt this bill in the first reading. On the other hand, I would ask you not to allow yourself to be subjected to the stress that comes to you on a permanent basis, and that is for today’s residents of other cities and areas, including Kharkivsky, Donecki, and Luhansk, and at least to ensure that you choose not to leave for those who are guilty of some crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u135	Andrew School, please, from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u136	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. On behalf of the faction, I would like to state that, of course, we will support this bill because stress is what keeps a person alive, and rehabilitation centers are essential to prevent stress-related diseases. Although, frankly, a person can be rehabilitated. In Ukraine, however, there has been a considerable increase in attitudes that, in principle, have a mediocre attitude toward human beings. We know that man is a homo sapiens. I mean, there's a lot of homo in Ukraine right now, but there's a problem with sapiens, with sanity. So a smart person can still be rehabilitated, and he can still return to society as a full member. But some representatives, those who have actually lost human form, I don't think they're going to be able to make it through. Although I am convinced that, for example, some of our fellow national MPs who suffered during the electoral campaign would be severely injured by the flames of protecting their boss Yanukovic. They would have passed and perhaps returned to the session room. Because not everyone has been able to return to it, and this creates certain coalitions, which can put the stress of those MPs who don't see their colleagues. And as for those who are loud... you don't have to go through any rehabilitation courses. First. They are. It's not helping. It's not helping. It's not helping. You can take the place of those people who are assisted by rehabilitation. Rehabilitation is man's return to society. So this is the return of sapiens. And when only homo is left, it is necessary to turn to another institution and there, perhaps, will be a certain rehabilitation course. I'd like to thank you, going back to the bill, the author for the timely and necessary bill, because now that we've gone through some processes in Ukraine we're thinking more about human beings and we need to create a similar institution and it's certainly not going to solve all the problems, too many of them in society, it's not going to solve a little bit, but what we can do is we're going to do to bring people back to civilised life after severe stress. I'm not sure everyone will be able to turn around, but even those few thousand, those few tens, it's worth supporting this bill, and I'm calling on all my fellow national deputies to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u137	Yes. Motive nigger, microphone, please. Yes, take the microphone with you, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the decision has to be taken, it is beyond question, but it must be realized that after it is adopted, three issues will have to be resolved. The first is to identify with a sanatorium based on which the Ukrainian Center for Medical and Social Rehabilitation is going to be formed, maybe really, it's going to be a sanatorium called Kuibisheva, maybe some other. The second issue of funding should be the inclusion of the Ukrainian Centre for Psychological Rehabilitation in the list of health institutions funded by the State budget. And third, in the future, we need to think about the transformation from a state-owned enterprise, maybe an enterprise that will provide itself and finance it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u139	Yes. Petchenko Timur Viktorovich, First Deputy Minister of Health
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u140	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine considers the creation of an interdepartmental rehabilitation center for people who are constantly succumbing to psychological stress to be of no use. I'll explain why. To ensure adequate treatment and psychological recovery of rescue workers and populations affected by technological and natural emergencies. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Population and Territory from Technological and Natural Exceptions, and article 35 of the Ukrainian Law on Emergency and Rescue Services in Sanatoriums, medical and psychological rehabilitation centres have been established for the specified population, namely: the Medical Center of Chernobyl, the Children's Clinic of Change, the Sanatorium of the South Coast, the Main Specialized Clinic of the Orlatko Clinic, the Children's Specialized Sanatorium of Jersey. There are appropriate orders from the Ministry of Health. So by now, rehabilitation centers already exist and are being sent to all categories of population that are subject to psychological stress. In addition, Kuibisheva's sanatorium is the utility property of the Yaltin City Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote for a committee to adopt on the basis of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the creation of the All-Ukrainian Rehabilitation Centre. [[Registration number 5350]] Please vote. [[13:27:47]] For 290 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine is being introduced, registration number 5404. [[on International Standards]] Reporter: Deputy Minister of Finance, Yaremenko Alexander Stepanovich One minute, from the procedure of Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u142	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I've spoken to you more than once about meeting the requirements of Chapter 3.8, "Discipline and Ethics of Plenary Meetings." And I would like to draw attention today to what article 3.8 says. Part four of it is emphasized that if the speaker does not speak on the basis of the word given to him, the chairman of the meeting after two warnings takes away his words. And it is necessary, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to do so. I would also like to remind you of the requirements of article 3.8. 3 That during a meeting of the Supreme Council, MPs should not interfere with speakers and listeners with actions that prevent them from giving or accepting a speech, such as shouting, applause, standing up, and so forth. So I'd like to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich how to address the chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, these remarks are fair and fair. I ask you to follow the proper rules and procedures, not to force me to take administrative action. We are now going to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine. [[on International Standards]] Reporter: Deputy Minister of Finance, Yaremenko Alexander Stepanovich Volodymyr Cherniak will be the narrator. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u144	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine is prepared for the purpose of adapting Ukrainian legislation to the legislation of the European Union in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union. The bill provides for open stock companies, bond issuers, professional market participants in securities, banks, and other financial institutions to report on international standards. A similar approach to financial reporting for companies that are revolving in stock markets has been introduced by the European Union since 2005. The bill also defines the terms "accountancy account", "economic benefit", "formal policy", and defines organizational forms of accounting in budgetary institutions. It is proposed to change from three to five years the time frame for storing documents on business transactions and to improve the order of signature of such documents by officials of the company. The statute of limitations — three years under the Civil Code — does not ensure the use of missing but necessary documents to determine the circumstances and the extent to which conflicting obligations arise. In addition, Ukraine’s Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Laundering of Proceeds by Crime also provides for the preservation of documents within five years. It is also proposed that non-profit-making organizations reduce their financial reporting rates to simplify procedures and accounting costs. In order to provide owners, founders, and other users with information on the business activity, they are provided with financial reporting during the period of rehabilitation, restructuring, and other measures aimed at restoring the company’s viability. The introduction of a requirement for mandatory improvements in the qualifications of the main accountants of enterprises, organizations, and budgetary institutions will enable them to increase the professional level of these officials and ensure that they are made by the users.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u145	One minute, one minute. Ladies and gentlemen, what did the new MP do? I remember all the women. Please, John Gabrieluk! Is it that we already have a new MP? What does security do? Order up! What is this, a passage yard in the Supreme Council or something? Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u146	The introduction of a requirement for mandatory improvements in the qualifications of the main accountants of enterprises, organizations, and budgetary institutions will enable them to increase the professional level of these officials and ensure that they are granted to users.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u147	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u148	The committee supported the bill. Please, Honorable People's Deputies, back him up and accept him as a basis. Thank you for the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u149	I burned, it turned out to be our people. I'm sorry, yes. Please have a seat. The focal point is the head of the committee’s subcommittee on economic policy for the management of national agriculture, property, and investments, Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment reviewed the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill aims to introduce Ukrainian accounting and financial reporting standards in line with international financial reporting standards. The bill is designed to introduce financial reporting by open shareholders, bond issuers, professional market participants and financial institutions under international financial reporting standards. In doing so, it is suggested that a reduced rate of financial reporting be introduced for nonprofit organizations. With the aim of increasing the professional level of the main accountants of enterprises, organizations, and budgetary institutions, the draft law introduces a requirement for mandatory improvement of their qualifications at least once every five years. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill can be based. At the same time, it made a number of appropriate suggestions that should be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. The Economic Policy Committee supported the proposed draft Ukrainian law and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u151	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Solomatin, Carmazin, School, and Melniczuk were enrolled. Please, Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, a faction of Communists, prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u152	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I are considering a bill today that improves accounting reporting. And this report needs to be improved regardless of what kind of management there is in the state today, whether it's capitalistic or socialistic. I believe that the proposals contained in this bill regarding the introduction of international standards will benefit us and those accountants who will work in socialism when we do it again in Ukraine. This, first of all, is the preservation of farm documentation from three to five to increase storage time, and it is understandable why and why. Compulsory financial reporting during the period of rehabilitation and restructuring of enterprises when they face economic and financial difficulties. This is a third reduction in financial reporting for non-profit enterprises, and that's clearly, first of all, they're different public organizations. And the last. I would suggest that we share a fourth view: increasing the qualifications of accountants not less than once every five years. The bill is generally right, and it needs to be supported and adopted in the first reading. I have a little bit of time left, and I want to say that our accountants don't exactly have what our colleagues have, I mean, our Ukrainian faction. When we voted in favour of the Supreme Council's decision to withdraw Ukraine's peacekeeping contingent from the Republic of Iraq, more than half of our esteemed colleagues from the faction "Our Ukraine" did not vote; they were in despair. As one of my colleagues says, "I'm stretching out in the spaghetti, I can't make a decision." And in this spaghata, we didn't vote in favour of recalling our military contingent from Iraq such heroes of the orange revolution as Assadchev, Immortal, Bespali, Bondarenko, Gornik, Grigorovich, Goodima. Gurvitz voted against it at all. Jehanurov, Zvania, Jovtjak, Joulinsky, Hare, Katerinczuk, Kendzior, Kirilenko, Klutkowski, Olijnik Peter, Pavlenko, Plishtko, Prashenko, Rybauk, Kostenko, Stretovic, Tanjuk, Tomenko, Udovenko, Černovecki, Yushchenko Peter. Only Victor Andryovich Yushchenko voted in favour. But this was voted by his card because he was not in the hall. Thank you for your attention. That's a bulge!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u153	Yuri Petrovich, one minute. In the end, in the end. There'll be a line. Let's get this over with. In accordance with the Rules, I give you my first warning. There'll be a second, then there'll be no word. Oh, that's a line. Please, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Andrew School. There'll be a line at the end. One for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u154	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear friends! Dear Ukrainian people! You know, sometimes the rostrum is used for political purposes. The vast majority of those called today were not present in this room during the vote, as there is no vote today. Some of them are in separate areas so that this entire power that's coming doesn't steal everything and block these things, and now they're ensuring that the documents that are being destroyed are safe. They're being severely destroyed. So if I were you, I wouldn't blame them for not pressing the button if the whole line was empty, and you call Peter Olivenic, and he's in Lviv right now. You call others -- they're there. What's that for? Caterinchuk wasn't here this morning, and you know that, too, and you call those names. Well, God is with him, these are my faction buddies, and they didn't vote because. And I had no right to press a button for them, because I didn't get one, you know, from them. And what's more, the Constitution speaks of its full participation in personal voting. As far as this bill is concerned. I'm talking to my fellow Communists again. Please, let's not waste time on mutual accusations or excuses, because if I do, then, I'm sorry, half of you will be out of the hall for a long time. I'm begging you, you don't have to. So, Your Honor, I would like to ask you, I urge you to be tolerant. Please, let's talk about this project on accounting and financial reporting in Ukraine, and he's proposing this law, these proposals, in principle, are normal proposals, but there are a lot of comments that we made on the second reading. For example, there is a positive increase in the time frame for storing processed documents, registers and reports up to five years from now, but it is necessary to specify and record that the publication of financial reports by publishing in printed media is to be written "public media". And that should be either in the Government courier or the Voice of Ukraine. We need to write in such media so that we do not hide our activities. There are also observations that are relevant to other articles. Amendments to the Law are proposed, resulting from the Law of the Lord. There is also a note. This is in line with article 62 of the Code of Lords: "Business is a legal person." And separate units don't have legal personality status. And there's a right to trust who to sign the papers and so on. That's why I wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u155	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Mikhailo Melniczuk will perform after School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u156	Thank you. Actually, I'd like to talk a little bit about the law itself, because especially the previous, the first, not saying anything about it, he listed only the names of the people. But I wanted to say, actually, for the law itself. The bill that is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Activities, as each bill has its own advantages, its own minuses, and I agree with the warnings made by the manager of our management on the notion of economic benefit, which is included in the list of things that will be, in the list of information lists that will be used during the clarification of what is the profit and what is the economic benefit. And the situation about the direct increase in money, the indirect increase in money, it's, let's say, it's in the Ukrainian reality of ambiguity in the law, it's causing clarity at the moment of its resolution, so I want clarity in the law and the solution to it to be clear and clear. Because of the direct and indirect increase in money, someone understands what kind of stone comes into use in the bill itself. How many times will they stumble on it, and how many times will they explain what needs to be done so that they do not encounter each other? The same is true with the term, because the introduction of new terms, and economically advantageous is the new term and the rationale for its introduction, well, legislation is not entirely logical. So I'd like to point out that if we talk about this bill, it's just a trial, it's a trial, it's a trial, it's a first reading, so that we can work out, because here the concept of "economic benefit" is a very tangible concept, and it's a potential for direct or indirect increases in money, or their equivalent of an enterprise from the use of assets. You know, there's direct, indirect profits here, they always bring in the treatment, and when financial documents and accounting are treated, then it's the accountant and the entrepreneur. So I would ask the legislator more carefully with the new terms and with the introduction of them into life, so with these warnings, I would like to propose in the first reading and not more in order to give the wise legislator a draft, because we normally need to level up legislation, we need to compete with European standards, but we need to compete for this, not mimic or mimic European legislation. Direct, indirect benefits are very often regulated by entrepreneurs themselves. You know that Belgian legislation generally provides for the honesty of entrepreneurs. He wrote as much about the profits he got.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u157	Mikhail Melniczuk's microphone, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Members, please come into the session room. An act of voting will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u158	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. And there is no doubt that accounting and all other documents must meet international standards. But we have to go back a little bit. Ten, fifteen years ago, when we broke this report. We are not, of course, a system that you have built in the last ten years. And I'd like to say what it did was to replace the traces of the rapture that was going on in Ukraine or the destruction that was done with agriculture in Ukraine. Let us return ten, eight years, five, seven years ago. Let us take farms that do not work today, where the land is not processed. Where did the accounting and financial documents go? Where were the technically armed farms that had both tractors and cars and other equipment? It's all sold out, it's all taken away. The tax authorities also worked well here. Because if a new car was sold for 300 dollars by a grain cleaner, and today it's worth 46,000, I can imagine how many traces are hidden, what a new government, a new president, is going to have to do to bring order to the state. But this is ahead. I'd like to make a warning about that, but within the framework of the agenda and this bill. We often have cases where the Ministry of Internal Affairs is taxing accounting documents at some point. That was before. For example, in the region of Chernobyl, the Kalinian market. The district attorney's office has removed the documents she's been studying there for eight months, don't you understand? Another question. Farminvest.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u159	By law, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u160	year Then, then, Maternal farming was studied strongly and farming in the Kitzman district. The U.S.A. has been eliminated, and a year has been studied. And what could be the report? So we need to put order in the state. And it's gonna be okay. And the bill proposed will be supported by socialists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine has been completed. [[on International Standards]] Please prepare for the vote. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine. [[on International Standards]] Registration number 5404. Please vote. Here comes the vote, my dear fellows. Please vote. [[13:49:42]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, well, here comes the vote. Then you'll talk. Please, please! Well, that's a line at the end of the question. We made a deal. Well, good luck to you! Please! You'll be able to talk! Talk about new political structures, everything. Let's vote, please. A motion for a return to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on International Standards]] Registration number 5404. Please vote. [[13:50:57]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Please, I wasn't in the hall. Well, one minute, calm down. The replica. Who asked for a replica? Just a minute. A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to draw attention to the procedure for making some of our decisions. For example, the bill under consideration did not go through, I think, just because, in discussing some MPs instead of actually saying, "in the city of the mouth and in Kiev, the uncle." I'm very glad that we voted on a law that will create a rehabilitation center. It will be of great help to some of our colleagues, who call themselves totally insensitive things and thus hinder our legal capacity. Obviously, this law is necessary, and we may return to it later. To do so, we must vote for his return to read again. Well, as for some of our colleagues, I think that this very fellow Solomon is no longer rehabilitative.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u163	Thank you. One minute, calm down. You just showed up and called for a performance. About what? Pick up the stenogram, your last name is not mentioned anywhere. And in the transcript, please show me. If there is, I'll give you a word. Calm down, dear fellows! As far as I'm concerned. I don't owe you anything, go to the Secretariat and take it if you need it. Honourable National Deputies, with regard to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Accounting and Financial Reporting Act in Ukraine, I am voting on the return to this bill. [[on International Standards]] The Supreme Council did not support a total of 221 votes, so the bill was rejected. We've got six minutes till 2:00. There's no need. Gurvitz, microphone. About what? Please, Gurwitz's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u164	Vladimir Mihajlovich, my last name was Solomatini. I'm asking you to give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u165	Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u166	Communists. insist on the withdrawal of our contingent from Iraq at a time when we did not ask any of the contingent's employees whether they wanted to leave. It is their voluntary decision to remain in Iraq. It is they who have voluntarily gone to this old age to protect the world from terrorism. And I understand the aspirations of the communists, because even though Saddam Hussein shot 5,000 communists without pity, the services of the Communists of other countries were paid for by the same Saddam Hussein oil, the blood of an Iraqi people who had suffered for decades under the oppression of a bloody tyrant. Therefore, the behaviour of the Communists is a disgraceful and unworthy conduct that is in our Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this morning the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares it closed. Break till 4:00. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our consideration of the bills set for Tuesday.
