ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u1	Please, Your Honor, come into the session room, take our jobs, we'll continue our work. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:23]] The 402 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues! A draft regulation amending article 3.3.4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the timing of the presentations]] Rapporteurs of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Bespaly Boris, Sharma Igor, Masters of Vladimir, Hubsky Bogdan, Yavorovsky Vladimir, Koval Vijacheslav, Bastrig Ivan; co-rapporteur of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas. Dear colleagues! Let's get to it. Boris Bespali, please. Boris Yakovich, your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u2	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! Today I'm not going to attack an existing recording system on the stand because I don't think anyone's going to protect it. So I'm going to go straight to the proposals. In principle, it would be normal to have two approaches: the first path is for MPs to be recorded by electronic equipment without taking into account the faction as is now being done in the various. And that's exactly where the draft decree was made. In my view, he was perfect and remains perfect in this concept, which I have the privilege of representing, along with Taras Viacheslavovich Crnowol. That's 5484. There's another way: when a recording is made on behalf of a faction as it happens on a morning spree. And that's probably more likely to set up deputies, so most of them are factions, and deputies, and the profile committee are inclined to do that. Such an optimal bill will be presented under the heading 5484-5, to be reported by Viacheslav Koval. But in any case, I think the most important thing here is to respect the rights of voters who have the right to know what position on each issue of the agenda is taken by those or other political forces to consciously assess their work. So I think from this point of view, the optimal is 5484-5. At the same time, the unaccounted interests of this bill are smaller than the number of factions, as several colleagues have repeatedly said. In fact, voters have the right to know the position of all factions, but not only the largest. And that's exactly what the correct story is in Bill 5484-3, which is the final text of the bill. Another problem is the consideration of bills by a reduced procedure, where there are only four rights to speak. And it is clear that not all factions will be able to come out, but only four factions. This too is something to think about when it comes to further reading. So let's say this logical analysis of the problem leads us to an incontrovertible conclusion, I think. First. We need to adopt a bill because the existing system doesn't fit anywhere. And that's the project that makes sense to take that project that's supported by the 54-committee. 84-5. I think he should be the first to vote, because that's the position of a profile committee. But only on the ground. And then from a project with a figure of 3, and from which one of us and Chernobyl should take the exact things, maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u3	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. Igor Mikhailovich Šurma, please. Prepare Volodymyr the Master.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u4	Igor Shurma, faction of Social Democratic Ukraine. [[united]] Honorary colleagues, political conjuncturing, and the transformation of the political forces in Parliament have led to the fact that, to date, a number of groups and MPs have no opportunity to express their position on a bill. This is due to the fact that the electronic recording system gives priority to the political forces in which the numbers are so high. And so it turns out that perhaps some of the most active parliamentarians are unable and unable from the rostrum of the Supreme Council to express the position of the entire political force. Therefore, the bill proposes a mechanism for recording the speech, regardless of the number of MP factions and groups, which will ensure the level of opportunity for national MPs from different political powers to participate in the discussion of agenda issues. In doing so, the interests of all political forces will be represented by the opportunity to express their position. The proposed procedure for recording the speech, in turn, will ensure that national MPs are not pressured by the largest number of MPs and groups, as well as a higher level of plenary work. Today, it's important to consider that the MP factions differ by number, so they get completely different opportunities to present their position on any issue. And in this way, conditions are created to give priority to one national MP over another. This leads to a one - sided and unobjective expression of the issues under discussion. In doing so, the interests of the same political forces are represented, while others are completely out of reach. In order to avoid this conflict between the political forces within the Supreme Council, it is necessary for this decision to be adopted. It is important that – I support the Bespalogo MP – that it is imperative to vote in favour of this decision and to finalize it, taking all possible positives from the proposed draft regulations. I would like to point out that the active turn of the word to be delivered in order of decreasing the lineup according to their numerical composition is contrary to the standard in part three of article 4.2.3. Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u5	Thank you, Igor Mikhailovich. Bogdan Hubsky, please. What? Why didn't I get it? Well, Matthew, please turn on the microphone. Please. Bogdan Hubsky is ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u6	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, well, we understand very well that the current recording system does not really withstand any criticism, and that is not the case here. Each member should be able to express his or her views and express his or her views in the Chamber. That's why he was elected here. It's his mechanism of work. But given that so far so many bills have been passed that, except for the suspects, we have nothing to do and will not be able to solve the problem properly, so Meisterishin and I decided to withdraw our 5484-2 bill in order to make it easier and easier for us to understand, because the existing bills, in principle, solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u7	Bogdan Hubsky, please. None. Vladimir Yavorowski, please, about your bill. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u8	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainian legislators, and respected voters. I'm very happy that finally this long-suffering bill in the form of a decree, a supplement to our internal regulations, is being considered. I think he's been in the middle of the day for about a year, and he can't get in. And the question really matured. Because I have to tell you that we have another faction in Parliament, it's small, but it's very mobile. It's a lunar fraction. They are those who are sleeping at four o’clock and five o’clock already standing right there at that table to sign up. I see Nadra smiling down on me, because I come in second, and he's always here, I think, even at night. Because of that, today I'm talking about this form of writing, I don't know who invented it, and who needs it at all. There's basic human logic. The MP has an interest in his legislators, where he understands where he wants to work. He needs to be given the opportunity to have at least a week of prospects so that he can prepare, knowing that he is recorded on a particular subject. Because of this, I very much ask my colleagues, those who have passed other bills, in no way can make decisions about what is being recorded on this very day. Who can prepare for this one day? And those who prepare will not necessarily get there. He would also do well to perform with a purely professional performance. I don't think we have the right to enter this minefield again. As a result, I propose that we actually return to the justifiable by several cadences, our predecessors, our deputies. Then, on Friday or Tuesday, the agenda is announced, which is already approved. You approach, you sign up for questions that are important to you over the week, and you have time to prepare for them, you have opportunity to speak. Because I am convinced that this form will be the best. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd still be bringing this, as it were, improvisation, but maybe it's worth it. Really, it's not fair that there are four people doing all of this behind the short-term program. Maybe it's worth it, I'm not sure it's the perfect option, but maybe give it a minute, but let the 12 deputies do it, and then we'll have a larger range of thoughts when we talk about something. I would very much ask, again, to be justified by our predecessors, and he's given good results, a bill to accept. The recording takes place after the daytime announcement and gives priority, of course, to the factions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u9	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Let me, my dear fellows, as you would like to see the positions of the people's deputies, of the factions of Parliament fully identified here, but let's do what all European parliaments do, that when they have planned a list of issues, they will work until they have considered the entire list of issues. Then we'll discuss it. Please, Viacheslav Koval, the argument about your bill. John Mikhailovich Bastriga will perform after Viacheslav Kowal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u10	National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is given by the Supreme Council's decision to amend the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure to determine the order of speeches from the rostrum. Without prejudice to the constitutional rights of the Ukrainian people's deputies or the status of the Ukrainian people's representative, we and the National MP, Bespalov, have come to the conclusion that we need to organize that part of the organization of our work, which is called the "record for a statement by the Ukrainian people's deputy from the rostrum". In our view, the procedure for setting the tone for speeches from the rostrum at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council remains imperfect, since the turnaround for giving a speech from the rostrum is still determined by the archaic living order, given that it is possible to sign up immediately for all issues of the agenda, it turns out that almost the same persons speak out of all questions. Moreover, by making this decree, we are concerned about the national deputies of Ukraine, who are forced to be at the office at five in the morning, to make a turn for the performance. I think it's time to sort out the order in which statements from the rostrum are scheduled during the day-to-day discussions at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Given that we are going to a new stage of work and the Supreme Council of Ukraine and our party building, when factions will have, right, axis in the next Parliament, when elections are held on a proportional basis, to establish a regime and to be responsible for their actions not only before their party but also before the Ukrainian people. We suggest that we define this order of order of order of statements from the rostrum, first we get the word of MPs assigned to the speech by MPs, groups in order to reduce the number of factions and groups, and the relevant statements are submitted to the Secretariat by authorized factions, groups. Then there are MPs who sign up for their name, and the order of their speeches will determine computer sorting by means of a random number generator, not including factions and groups. The indicated electronic sorting should be carried out immediately following the announcement by the Head of the relevant matter to be considered. All statements made after the question has started will be added to the end of the sorted list. This ruling can be part of the Supreme Council Rules of Law in general, which determines the order of work of the people's deputies and parliament as a whole, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support in the first reading, ready to make the proposal that Bespalov spoke about. Continuation of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u11	Ivan Mikhailovich Bastiga. Please, Ivan Mikhailovich, prepare Sergey Vladimirovich Sasa.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear friends! The number of projects on this issue indicates that we may not have a perfect law and therefore many who want to make changes in order to get rid of it. The draft regulation is aimed at improving the procedure provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the participation of factions in the issues under discussion, which are discussed in plenary meetings and the manner in which they are given the floor. Article 3.3. 6 The Rules set out the guaranteed right for each of the MPs, the factions to form in accordance with Articles 4.2.1., 4.2.2. to raise a question to the reporter, the co-reporter, and also to make a statement by one of their representatives on questions or proposals to be put to the vote. However, the mechanism for the exercise of this right of factions as the main subject of the decision of the Supreme Council in the Rules is not clearly stated. In this regard, the factions are not always guaranteed the opportunity to publicize their position before the vote on the matter under consideration. This is true even when authorized factions signed up for a talk on the subject in accordance with article 3.3.4. As a result of the lack of resolution of this issue, in many cases the word for statements is given according to the previous entry by the national deputy of only one, two factions, as my colleagues have previously said. Representatives of another faction have no opportunity to comment on the question that is being considered and put to the vote. The first-line mechanism proposed in the draft regulation for the representation of factions, which was recorded in accordance with article 3.3.4. shall give the presiding officer the right to give the floor in the order of priority to the members of the national delegation who are recorded in the statement of the faction. Amendments to the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure proposed by this draft decree will improve the quality of the legislative process, address issues of order and clarity of the word mechanism for representatives of factions to speak in plenary sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u13	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. The first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! To carry out the tasks of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 May, 9 June, 23 June 2004, 2 February, 1 and 7 April 2005, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending article 3.3 was considered at the meetings of the Committee on 16 June 2004. 4 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the determination of the order of order of speeches from the rostrum by the People’s Deputies of Bezpal, Chernobyl, Registration No. 5484 and the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council to reject it, since this change is envisaged within 45 minutes to consider the matter, in accordance with article 3.3. 1 Rules, introduce the determination of the number of deputies enrolled in the stand during the day-to-day discussions with the electronic system, irrespective of the turn of the National Deputies for the performance of the random number generator, without taking into account the membership of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the parliamentary factions and groups. This approach, according to the Committee, would make it worse to write up a personal written statement by a national MP in the order of the record, and this would not guarantee the guaranteed right of a national deputy to speak within the time limit to discuss the issue if it was registered even first and, in particular, excludes the guaranteed right to speak to Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of MPs and groups, as provided for in article 3.4, part one, paragraph 7. 1 Rules and Part Three, Article 4.2. 3, and Article 3.3. 6 Rules. That is, that each MP and group has the guaranteed right to speak to their representative on all matters of the agenda at the meetings of the Supreme Council, as well as to speak to one of their representatives on the question of whether proposals should be put to the vote. In addition, the chairman of the meeting should give the floor to the retention of the order, in accordance with article 3.3. 7, established for speakers on the basis of statements on how to give a word to ensure that interventions are rescheduled for support and not to support the proposal under discussion and to ensure that statements are made by various MPs and groups, in proportion to their size. In the proposed case, it is not excluded that the person who signed up last will speak first, both from the rostrum and from the seat, and all others will not wait for their turn. On June 23, 2004, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend article 3.3 was considered. 4 Rules introduced by the People’s Deputy Shurma The decision of the committee to recommend that the Supreme Council reject it, since it is proposed to exclude the possibility of successive interventions by members of the MPs and groups in order to reduce the number of members of the panel. I believe that this issue needs to be addressed to the decision of the Supreme Council, or will the Supreme Council agree that factions that have more will have the same right to speak as factions that have less.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u15	Please give us the opportunity to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I will not stop now from deciding on the committee's decision on a bill tabled by the People's Deputy in view of the fact that the bill has been withdrawn. On 2 March 2005, a draft regulation was considered to amend the changes made by Deputy Hubski. The committee also decided not to support the draft decree in view of the fact that it provides for a guaranteed time to consider the issue of the day’s order only for the representatives of all the MPs and the groups who signed up for the speech. In doing so, the authors limit the right to speak to reporters, co-reporters, representatives from committees, commissions, and other national deputies, such as non-fractional and those who have the right to sign up personally. The committee also decided to reject the bill tabled by the people's deputy Yavorowski because he provides for a recording of all matters of the agenda according to the weekly and two-week terms. We believe that such an approach will not allow the matter to be resolved in substance. On April 20, a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the amendments made by the Bespalym and Koval People's Deputies was discussed and a decision was made to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis. In the opinion of the committee, this draft decision needs to be finalized and adopted in general, because the authors propose a special order of listing for statements from the rostrum in such a way that at the beginning of the list the names of the national deputies of Ukraine, members of the parliamentary factions and groups are placed on the list, in order to reduce the number of parliamentary factions, and then on the list are names of the MPs who are personally registered, and their turn order on the list is not determined by the turn of the record, but by the use of the random number generator. The committee also finds it contradictory to suggest that the second sentence of article 3.3. 8 Replace the Rules with a text that forbids a national MP designated to speak from a faction to transfer the right to speak to another national MP. At the meeting of the Committee on January 12, a draft decision of the Supreme Council to amend articles 3.3 was considered. 6 and 3.3. 7 Rules introduced by the People’s Deputies Gladys, Baraniskies, Bastrego. In this project, it is suggested that the first part of article 3.3 be completed. 6 The Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure provide for the giving of the floor in the first order to the Ukrainian National Deputies, authorized by the MPs to participate in the discussion of the issue. The committee did not support the prescribed bill of decree and suggested that the Supreme Council should not include it in the agenda, given that the procedure for making a statement for questions, for making a statement on the subject, for a statement of reasons, and in accordance with articles 3.3.6, 3.3. 7 The rules need to be improved in conjunction with the procedure for organizing consideration of issues in accordance with article 3.4. 1 and 3.4. 2 Rules and changes in the total time for consideration of agenda issues. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that this bill be returned, as did all previous ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the committee's decision and to adopt Bill 5484-5 in order to allow the committee to take into account all those proposals, if possible, that were in other bills that are being tabled today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u17	Yes, thank you, too, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. Kirilchuk, Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Turn on the microphone, please. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kirilczuk, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Indeed, everyone must have realized that as it is, there can be no more. There's only two factions that need to be put into order on these issues, because usually we have only two factions in the stands, the rest can't get through for different reasons, we're going to analyze them. The other one. A machine called "The Council" also writes depending on the number of factions. As a result, the same ones are on the scene. Because of this, fewer factions are almost rarely able to achieve, they will express their opinion in. Not even his own, not even the factions. Therefore, I think it is imperative that we listen to the committee's reasoned decision and actually accept one of the very closest documents on the basis of the truth, and all that is reasonable, which is in all others, to include it in the second reading so that we can work out a normal document, put order in the room, not pursue the number of accepted documents, but move on to quality indicators, because we are still losing this time, because, as you can see, half, and even more, we always have bills, changes to adopted bills. As a result, we find ourselves squeezing water in our feet. So let's support the decision of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and make the best decisions, maybe not even as much for ourselves as for the new Supreme Council coming after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u19	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u20	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! He fully agreed that the issue had matured and had already matured to some extent, because, for example, the same Bill 6422 had been in force since 2004. The issues must be addressed accordingly. But I have to say that when we discussed this in our own faction, we have defined it this way, we believe that in any case we need to put the system in such a way that representatives from different factions and MPs speak. Then there'll be a difference. Otherwise it will all be the same. And based on that logic, we had a wish. Our "Corada" system has already sounded here, and a distinguished colleague has spoken on this subject, when we log into the "Various" when we register on behalf of the deputies on Fridays, it is unfortunate that, for example, our faction is recorded — the closest person is the twelfth, or even the fifteenth. I mean, in a large way, we can't bring the whole subject down just to see how we're recorded on a paper carrier. We have an electronic carrier, too. Therefore, on the basis of the foregoing, we believe that the co-sponsor of the Bill 5484-2 is as comfortable as possible to vote. Because it's the perception of different views that is probably the most important when we talk about what we should be discussing. Well, the rest of the time, please hand over to my colleague Vernidoub. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u21	Please, Ivan Vernidubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u22	Dear friends! Verni Dubov, "Regions" faction. Indeed, the Rules are imperfect, our control functions, our Parliament needs to be strengthened. Yes, on September 8th of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Act No. 4201 of Ukraine on amending the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, which provides for the legislative regulation of the procedure for drawing members of local councils to legal responsibility. In the second reading, 270 deputies voted in favour of the necessary 226. On September 22, this year, conscious of the responsibility of the Ukrainian people in a time of future political crisis, authorities and opposition signed a memorandum of understanding where, inter alia, the parties agreed to put the law into effect without delay. The fact that more than three weeks have passed since the adoption of the law and has not yet been signed by the President is a cause of deep concern for the faction of the Party of the Regions. The President is taking a break, and in violation of the constitutional terms and procedures, he does not carry out his direct constitutional duty to sign the Supreme Council's law. In this regard, the faction of the Party of the Regions formally refers to the President of Ukraine and requires him to carry out his constitutional and political duties and terms of reference of the memorandum, immediately signing Act No. 4201 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u23	Yes, dear colleagues, I ask you to speak on the subject that we are discussing. Jury Petrovich Solomatin, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Onionepka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, we are discussing a sinister issue today. But first of all, I want to explain to our voters what we're talking about. In reality, there are only two parties in Ukraine today: the Capitalist Party and the Communist Party. But capitalism is represented by 124 registered parties in Minsk. And when I go to the elections, they'll do what? They register in the Election Centers as voters in the electoral process, they get the right to submit to the election boards all the levels of their proposals, and here they're buying ducks like this, and they're going to push whoever the more powerful political forces are going to offer them, they're going to serve them. Some of this is now being done in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What is it? We have a little bit more than 10 factions and groups. But in fact there are only two -- the Communist faction and the rest of the others, representing the capitalist party of Ukraine. And now they're trying this way, and this is how they're trying to distribute all the possibilities for a statement from the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this way: one possibility for the communists and the rest of them for the capitalists. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to fool people, you may succeed. But we, the MPs themselves, understand that. So these games around to take account of the number of factions and so on are stupidities that are aimed at further limiting the ability of the opposition of the Communist Party of Ukraine to explain its view of the situation in Ukraine. And about the possibility of the MPs speaking. I've been very pleased to meet you in Riksdaz, Sweden, how all this is going on in committee, and the only thing that happens at the official meeting is the faction vote and everything, virtually without discussion. So let's agree with one of you -- the Supreme Council rostrum is not a tool to discuss drafts, it's a tool to influence voters. And that's what all these problems are like today. There's a live turn for today. A deputy is coming. Even someone at seven, and someone at six o'clock is writing it down. And that's very good. Anyone who wants to speak will always sign up. Why is Karmazin speaking, why is Mironenko speaking, why is Nadrag speaking? This is because they are accountable to factions and to their constituents and exercise their parliamentary right. So, dear friends, I suggest that we not do stupid things or do these bills, but put them on the new Council of the Supreme New Convenience. And there's new people coming, they're deciding these questions. Let's not look at these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u25	Is Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko there? You don't? Mikhailo Melniczuk? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u26	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Alexander Moroz, Cherniewec Region, All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Mines. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. These bills may have support in the hall, but I would like colleagues not to question the activities of those deputies who come in and are registered under the Supreme Council Rules. Clearly, this requires additional strength. We have to get up very early, come to Parliament. Some, though, are not even used to it for ten years, but later they come. The factions of the Socialist Party, personally as a national MP, it's very difficult for me to allocate, nevertheless, what to support -- whether to get up in the morning and go to work, or to take notes by pressing buttons. If you get to the speech or not, you're ready to make a statement and support a bill. Look at the logic, the point is that if there's a bill going on in the village, it's about an agro-industrial complex, and me and other colleagues have something to say about those that have something to do with the APC, but you won't sign in and you won't. Next question. I don't know who introduced this form, but a head of Parliament with a motive can give you three minutes to record a speech. And there's usually two factions. This is not fair. If you have any suggestions from the procedure, write it down again for three minutes. So this has to be arranged, not just the speeches, but the writings of the procedure, with the motivation to get it all organized, if we're talking about the faction, let's do it in a way that if it's from the faction, every faction. But look at the factions. We started working in Parliament, there were six factions. And now, if I'm not mistaken, 15. Maybe I'm wrong, because another faction could be tomorrow, a new one. Let us, however, hold that there is not much to do in Parliament, keeping to the rules of the Supreme Council that are today. We come in the morning, we sign up for the bill and we make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u27	Thank you, Your Honor, time for discussion is over. Let us be motivated by those who have signed up. John the Rabbit microphone, please. Microphone. One minute, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask everyone to understand. I don't think that's the question that's burning in Ukrainian society, let's define by voting and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u28	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. If there is no holy truth, there is nothing to mock. The point is that these changes that are being proposed will not solve the problem in essence. It's just a privilege for large factions, not deputies. Because if we really wanted to change things for the better, we'd still be thinking about Article 3.3. 1 Rules where our discussion is limited to 45 minutes. And the reporter sometimes takes three minutes, no questions asked, but the chairman says, yes, for a discussion of 15 minutes, bast. And so 45 minutes goes down to 20 minutes, and from here, no factions, no MPs can speak. Therefore, our quality, the low quality of our laws, is ensured by the fact that neither factions nor deputies can express themselves in the Supreme Council. They can't talk. So at the same time, let's take a look at my decision, which is not being considered to change article 3.3.1.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u29	Eugene Gorenik, please. And then Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u30	It's not working? Ivan Gorenik. Congress of the Ukrainian Nationalists. In principle, the current Rules allow an MP if he is not a lazy speaker in the discussion, of any matter. And believe me, you don't have to come for five, I don't know. ??? Other deputies, and where you normally log in at eight o'clock. But it still needs to be adjusted in order of work. First of all, talking about a reduced procedure, I think it's nonsense and it needs to be completely eliminated. If people sign up for a question, they prepare for it. So all those who sign up have to get at least one minute to perform. And to the end. We're finishing our cadence. And the discussion of this bill is actually for the next composition of the Supreme Council. Let's let the next Supreme Council decide how to speak to her. And here with the little upgrades, with the increased time for the performance and giving everyone the right, and we can work together successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u31	Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone. Yuri Karmazin first, I see, Vladimir Kirilovich is fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! I would agree not to speak at any time if everything was perfectly normal. If normal projects were to be prepared, we would be preparing codes with you, not changing the interests of criminal, oligarchic groups. So, dear friends, what is written to you by the Science and Experimental Authority that today must keep the order that is good or bad. Computers, too, record completely wrong and unobjective. And what you have to do is complete those draft laws that are clearly. Among other things, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have proposed my own bill, which I have proposed since 2003, which determined that we should prepare for the performance. If you just push the button and go, it's disrespect for the Ukrainian people, it's disrespect for your colleagues, it's disrespect for the Law and the Constitution. We have to cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u33	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u34	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, our faction, having considered this issue today at the meeting, has taken it seriously enough to now implement any of these bills, because they are all imperfect enough and at the end of the cassation to do such things it is a certain disruption of Parliament and a disruption of procedure. But in order for this process to go, however, so that we can then get into the new draft of the Rules Act, which I hope will be introduced for the next call and done to make it go away. We agree to vote in favour of the draft decision, supported by Committee No. 5484-5, that this project will be further strengthened by the very structure of society, including Parliament, with the rights of factions, but only in the first reading. And, literally, a few words before we think we can go back to that question and finally adopt it only when the President has signed a bill that we have adopted on the integrity of local council members. This is the absolute norm of civilized society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u35	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u36	Honorable National MPs. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. I'm offering to work as a mouthpiece. In the session room, to vote without any vanity, without discussion, to work on committees, factions, and thus to improve the efficiency of our work. And seriously, you have to admit that the situation is abnormal. There is discrimination against individual factions, individual MPs, and there are no equal conditions for them to do so. But I want to remind you, dear friends, the Rules were adopted in 1994. The Supreme Council has so far failed to prepare a new Rules – the Constitution of Parliament. We need to prepare a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u37	Thank you, Your Honor. Discussion of draft Regulations on making changes to article 3.3. 4 The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been completed. [[on the timing of the presentations]] In accordance with the draft legislation, according to the order in which they are registered, I will put them to the vote. Please respond carefully. The first is a proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft Order for Amendments to Article 3.3. 4 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 5484, by Boris Bespali. [[on the timing of the presentations]] [[16:46:05]] For two. The decision is not taken. Puts to the vote for the main draft of Decree, Registration Number 5484-1, by Igor Schurm. [[16:46:32]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Puts to the vote for the main draft Decree, registration number 5484-2. Author of National Deputy Masters and others. [[16:46:58]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Adam Ivanovich tells me that the authors withdrew the project before it was considered. It is submitted to the vote for adoption on the basis of draft decree number 5484-3, the author of which is the national deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Hubski. [[16:47:30.]] For-26 The decision is not taken. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft decree number 5484-4, by Vladimir Yavorowski. [[16:47:56]] For-51 The decision is not taken. It is submitted to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft decree number 5484-5, by Viacheslav Koval. [[16:48:24]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Put to the vote for adoption on the basis of draft decree number 6422, the author is national deputy John Bastrig. [[16:48:54]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move forward in this way: we invite the committee to study this issue, to generalize all the projects and prepare a document. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? What? Please sign up, three minutes. If you don't have any other questions. Please sign in for three minutes. What? What are you offering me? Calm down, please. Michael Loboda, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u38	I'd like to give Catherine a word with Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u39	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, I don't think we need to take too much care of the issues that we have discussed, they don't "seal" the population of Ukraine today. They are more interested in what winter will be like, whether it will be warm, whether there will be gas in them, and this question is no longer needed by this Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think that the next election of Ukrainian MPs will consider the bill, make the decision, from the point of view and from our experience. And let's not waste time, let's not distract ourselves, and not distract people, but engage in more specific things that affect the economy and well-being of the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u41	Mikola Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u42	I ask you to pass the word to Sulkovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u43	Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u44	There is a proposal to vote for the 5th project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u45	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u46	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues! It's confusing the next position. We voted with you on all the bills. We didn't get the result. It's bad. But on the other hand, I want you. To draw your attention to what our colleague Masterskin proposed, and to withdraw his bill in order to come out with proposals to unite and do something common, and to finalize the question that today, when proposed by the Speaker of Parliament, is once again causing some commotion in the room. I don't understand. Do we need to talk in the hall or get results? What's bad is if we ask our regulatory committee today to come up with common approaches and with these approaches to the hall, instead of having a discussion here, which is absolutely the right of a colleague who has spoken here that is not what is disturbing to our people. In fact, people are concerned about prices, winters, and everything that forms the prose of life, not our emotions with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u47	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u48	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you! Mr. Igor Fedorovich, don't disturb the Head! I am addressing the speaker, and I ask the Head of the Supreme Council, if you will excuse me and ask: Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the Constitution provides that we have the Rule of Procedure Act in force, so let us not change the Rules if we have not made them in accordance with the Rules, but rather adopt the Rule of Procedure Act, which is provided for in the Constitution. And by the way, there are also others, the control powers of Parliament, which are derived from the Regulation Act, which are absolutely universally binding on all organs of the State, because that is the law. And let's also adopt the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. Let's now foresee everything that prevents Parliament from working, let's raise Parliament's authority, no matter how much we want those who steal the budget, or someone else to adopt these laws. Now, for the record, I have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the Shurma, and we're done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u50	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this final discussion shows how imperfect the procedure is today. We are, indeed, discriminated against because the word has to be asked for. I don't understand the factions that are multiplicity today, because today, if you look at how they voted, this is the level of democracy. More of us today, and we'll talk about both the gas and the light that still exists today, and tomorrow it won't be. I'm surprised, by the way, and my colleague's name, for a lineup, maybe he'll take it, Mr. Farrague. I remember this. My determination, the project I wrote at his request, since he was sitting here in the Hubsky faction, when I couldn't take the floor. Then he sat in another faction, and he couldn't take the word again. And he said, ‘Shurma, let us write down a decree so that we may act. Decision, draft e. And today it's a completely different position. And finally, as long as we don't have the Law of Rules, I think we're going to fight for what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u51	Thank you. Replica, Dear Basil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u52	I am grateful today to all colleagues who have remembered me from both the rostrum and all. This is an excellent probability for a man who is a deputy. But I'd like to make a little clarification. I've never been to the Hubsky faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. I think that's how we need to agree and commission a committee to produce a single draft of a decision that we can take immediately, taking into account that everyone has the opportunity to participate in the discussion of a particular issue. I ask the committee to do such a project without delay. What? What's the line? What was your last name? Please. What? Yavorowski, please. Dear colleagues, let's work, work on a document that will be acceptable. Because people don't understand what we're talking about here. Please calm down. You always have the opportunity to speak. Please calm down. And somehow, when you were 80, you didn't ask that question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u54	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I cried, but you did not hear me. I mean, if we're going to assign a committee, we're going to have to set a date. Because this decree, this bill, I don't know, is already stuck in the memory of each of us. That's the first one. And the others. There's another way out. And yet I have a right to say it morally as one of the authors that Kowala's Bill has gained a lot. Maybe you should try it, it's your right to vote again in favour of going back to this bill and voting again. If he doesn't get the votes, then the committee, but set them a deadline. Let's say it's in two sessions so that we don't delay the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, this is already a specific offer. So, if you'll excuse me, please. I'm betting on the vote on who to go back to the draft order, registration number 5484-5. Author Viacheslav Koval Please be sure. [[16:57:12]] For 205 The decision is not taken. So I'm asking the committee, Sergei Volodymyrovich, who was the co-reporter on this issue, to work with the proposals that took place or were included in the draft rulings on this subject and about one plenary meeting, after one plenary week so that we can consider it and take it definitively as a determination. No objections? Well, you said I supported, Vladimir Alexanderovich, your offer. Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the laws with the comments of the President of Ukraine. Announcing the Ukrainian Housing Code with proposals by the President of Ukraine since August 08, 2005. Registration number 3584. Reporter Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowytenko will be the narrator. Five minutes. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, as you know, in accordance with part two of article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President returned the Ukrainian Housing Code with his proposals. Present proposals by the President of Ukraine to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Alexia Kucherenk. Thus, according to the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 7 July this year, the Housing Code cannot be signed, first and foremost, by virtue of the Constitution of Ukraine, one of the factors of the right of every citizen to a sufficient standard of living is housing. The right to housing is defined as one of the fundamental constitutional rights of Ukraine, and a new approach has been established by the State to ensure that this constitutional right of citizens is guaranteed by the State, under which it creates conditions for every citizen to be able to build a residence, acquire it or rent it. For those in need of social protection, housing is provided free of charge by the State and local authorities. In the meantime, the Housing Code, according to the President, does not ensure the implementation of constitutional provisions, largely leaves out outdated approaches to solving modern problems and is not a complete act of housing law. Under the Constitution of Ukraine, the Housing Code should address the issue of ensuring the realization of the right of citizens to housing in a comprehensive manner, not just regulating the legal relationship between certain subjects in the area in question. One of the main shortcomings of the Code is the inadequacy of its individual provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the disagreement with the Civil Code of Ukraine. For example, it is stipulated in article 4, paragraph 8, of the Code that housing legislation regulates relations, such as housing for citizens who need social protection and social security regarding the payment of such housing. At the same time, as already stated in article 47 of the Constitution, housing is provided for citizens who need protection not only for their wages but also for free. It limits the constitutional right to housing and is set out in part two of article 15 of the Civil Rights Code only once free of charge to obtain housing from state or municipal housing funds. This effectively deprives the right to improve living conditions not only for those who have already received adequate housing and who again need improvement in living conditions but also for others in the event of removal of housing on social grounds. In a number of cases, the housing code in Ukraine significantly violates constitutional rules regarding property rights. Yes, article 22 of the Housing Code provides for the possibility of removal, particularly from the homeowners, for investment projects from the reconstruction of residential areas. So the owner can have a rule about the forced redemption of his residence. The possibility of local self - government making a decision puts owners and tenants in complete dependence on such authorities, which may lead to abuse by the individuals involved. This situation cannot be recognized as social justice and is unacceptable to Ukraine. Conceptually unacceptable and not in keeping with the constitutional norm on the exceptionality of forced alienation of private property objects is provided for in article 105, part 1, of the Code, for a list of grounds for the removal of housing on grounds of social necessity. Those who fail to comply with the Civil Code of Ukraine are defined by the Housing Code as a separate form of property, a population of housing units, and other housing units shared by various subjects of private, state, municipal property. An important task of the Code is to address issues relating to state housing for citizens in need of social protection. However, the conceptual principles of the corresponding provisions of the Code do not fully comply with the constitutional rule governing the State’s obligation to provide housing for such citizens. It causes a serious denial of the concept of social housing provided by the Code and the use of housing that actually transforms socially unprotected citizens into social injustices. The Code does not solve the issue of housing for those who are currently in line for housing from the general purpose housing fund. Although the code provides for the counting of such citizens, the real legal condition for resolving the issue of housing is not resolved, it is not determined how and by what means the housing problem must be solved. On the basis of the above, it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the Housing Code to reject and instead ensure the drafting of a new bill that would fully meet the current problems of society in the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u57	Yes, thank you, are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, three minutes Rodionov, Vaszczuk next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u58	Radios, Communist faction. The distinguished rapporteur, of course, cannot simply accept the Housing Code or even take it as a basis, since it is, well. All the rights that our citizens had in Soviet times, it virtually deprives them of all their rights. But that's my question. This is what was declared a violation of rights, and they are going today. These rights are violated as a result of new construction, people are evicted, people are forced to accept new construction. In your opinion, should there not be any decree that categorically prohibits acts of violence against the housing problems of citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u59	Thank you for asking. Regarding violence against citizens, as I know today, there are no relevant decisions in Ukraine's legislation, and they are all taken if they are adopted in accordance with valid legislation. But I can agree that, indeed, to resolve many of the problems that are being addressed today and to solve the problem of the outdated housing fund and the complex forgetfulness of the old microregions, and the relevant bill, as you remember, was adopted in the first reading by the Supreme Council. It is for a comprehensive solution to these problems that the country certainly needs the Housing Codex. And, today, we're not talking about the fact that we don't need this document. The president says that, conceptually, this document is not acceptable, and we need to work on the concept of a new Housing Code that will solve both those problems and others that are now emerging in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u60	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u61	Of course, the Housing Codex is such an important document that it touches the life of every citizen. I have this kind of question. Please tell us what articles in the Housing Code need to be strengthened in order to be supported by all the halls in peace, which would guarantee that there will be no self - government price increases, to monitor how all the authorities work to establish pay-for-residents. See, today’s accepted recommendations have led to a mixed response of citizens. Part of it can cancel debt on savings books, and those who have been disciplined and paid for housing each time, their books do not go out. How can we avoid such self - righteous action?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u62	Dear Catherine Timothy! Thank you for asking. To be honest, the question of paying off debt on savings deposits is a slightly different area, although I can agree with you that somewhat violated the rights of people who have paid this time in good faith for the quarter and have no debts. And I want to tell you that the government knows about this problem and will work the mechanisms so that they can also be encouraged by something that encourages these people who are neat payers. With regard to the facts of self - government, I feel that it was in this code of living that everything was done to minimize these facts of self - government. Although we have a separate opinion of the President, and which I will take the liberty of taking, we do have observations under article 22, which provides for a different approach to the implementation of investment projects regarding the reconstruction of old buildings, i.e., so-called "breeds". So our point of view remains that instead of this article we have to write a separate law that was adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading, and it was practically ready to be adopted in the second reading, today it was sent for further details, it would have more detailed the protection of human rights in order to actually protect their rights in the process. With regard to the total number of comments, I do not want to take bread into Valery Pavlovych Desertka, he will report, but the vast majority of these proposals, according to the committee, are now taken into account, and so the Committee's opinion on the future fate of the codex to be decided upon today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u63	Thank you. Have a seat, please. But for that code to be written there, not by other laws to regulate, the code is called the code so that all the questions around the house are prescribed in the same document. Please, Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko from the committee. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich, my fellow national MPs! I really wanted the newly appointed Minister of Construction and Housing to be in the government's bed right now. I think he's not interested in hearing about the Housing Code today, because it's a very different question. I'm also surprised when they make conclusions about the president's position. And I can remind everyone that over the course of one year we created a commission where representatives of all the MPs and factions worked, and a Committee on Housing and Utilities, which will no longer be, but will be the Ministry and others, supported all the positions that were adopted here in the second reading. Now, let's do it in order. The Committee on Construction and Transport, Housing and Communications at its meeting on September 7th, I would like to listen carefully, this year the President's proposal to the Ukrainian Housing Code has been considered and the decision has been made to take the President's comments and to send the amended code to the Supreme Council for consideration. The president made 31 remarks, which the Committee fully took into account 24 comments, which were edited by one, and two were partially counted. Thus, the committee takes into account almost nine tenths of the comments made by the President. So we went along such a way that we would not vote against the codex in any way. By the way, the declarations signed by both the President and the head of the government, the head of the Supreme Council, and representatives of political parties, MPs today and factions, are written down to adopt the Housing Code. We didn't take four notes into account. First, the Code does not address the issue of housing for persons who are currently in line to receive housing from a general housing fund. What did we do about it? According to the final regulations and the code of residence, the housing code of the citizens who were in charge of improving housing conditions preserves the housing policy that existed when these were established. Codes, in particular, remain valid in articles 40, 47 of the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code, there are all remaining, we have saved a turn, we cannot accept the proposal to eliminate the queue. She's staying. Until this line is complete. In order to organize the housing line, the local self - government body has to have special commissions temporarily established, reviewed existing lists published in the media and thus created all the necessary rights prerequisites for a successful solution to the longstanding problem. And the entry into force of the 100 ’ s Housing Code. We already have the right to plan for 2006 the cost of both state and local housing budgets. That is, the turn has to move to make you understand. Including social housing. The second question we didn't support. It's just a new edition. It seems wrong to break the lease on this dwelling if the average monthly total income of the employer and his family has changed and has become higher than the subsistence minimum. That's a note 23. This observation is considered to be due to misinterpretation of the codex. The average monthly total income is only an ingredient in the decision to break the contract of social housing and the code provides that the subsistence minimum will be taken into account only with the average cost of renting housing in the area. And it can be different in Ukraine. Which is usually much higher than the minimum of living. Thus, if the average monthly total income of the tenant and his family is higher than the subsistence minimum, but not enough to rent housing in the residential area, this will not be the basis for moving out of social housing, then people will be able to keep social housing behind them until they solve the housing problem. A third observation that we didn't take into account. Well, they partly counted it, they did a new edition. In a way that fundamentally violates the rights of citizens, it is called a remark. There is a need to consider the prohibition of privatization, the protection of mortgages, and housing. There's an answer right now. I'm sorry, I might be a little late to explain. The committee really agreed that social housing should meet all the building, sanitation standards set for housing. That is to say, housing must be both universal and social. It is not a barn that builds, but a normal dwelling where socially unprotected people can live. The Constitution of Ukraine provides for the provision of social housing, but it does not provide for its right to privatize. Because housing is a social assignment, and we agree with the conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u65	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u66	30 minutes, well, here's question four, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u67	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u68	We agree with the findings of the Chief Science and Technology Administration, which should be used to accommodate citizens who need social protection, that is to say they have a purpose. His privatization, the alienation from municipal property is undervalued and should not be privatized in any way. In addition, the granting of the right to privatization, armouring, and pledges virtually overwhelm the whole idea of social housing. If we are going to privatize this apartment, why build a social home? You can't do that. And the fourth. The possibility of transferring housing under a contract of employment to others in the absence of mercenaries cannot be agreed with the code. For example, during children’s stay in children’s homes. In accordance with article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans, the issue of the management of the property of the child is decided by the guardianship body. Thus, in the final text of the Code, the comments made by the President of Ukraine are the highest possible. Also, social housing, according to the code, is hardly any different from social housing, as I was talking about. Thus, the size of housing payments from the Social Assignment Fund consists of payments made directly to the employer and State aid provided in accordance with the law. Capital repairs are paid only at the expense of local self - government, but not at the expense of the hired man, or those living in social housing. So I ask you to support our proposals, to accept the proposal of the President of Ukraine and to support the Housing Code. This will enable us to plan the construction of housing for our nation as early as the following year. I mean, this is the development of the building industry, our production in Ukraine. Costs that will be allocated will come to the State budget, taxes, wages, pension funds. I'd like to vote and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u69	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Yeah, three minutes. Rodionov, after him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u70	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Valery Pavlovich, you probably know how many letters there were about this Housing Code. I would like to say that, for Ukrainian citizens, not for the people's deputies, they may be the Housing Code and are not interested, they have already solved their problems, and for Ukrainian citizens, the two most painful issues are the Housing Code and the Labour Code. I have a question: What are we in a hurry for? Why should the project not once again be put to public discussion so that they can comment, where there are underwater stones? Because if we adopt a code that they say will not protect the poor, but only the rich, we will just plant all of Ukraine. This is the law that takes 20 years to pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u71	I think I thank you for asking that this code is accepted for life, for what it will be, but it will be adjusted and needed for it. This code is just for people who are not socially protected, for children who are on the line today, and 420,000 are for the benefit of the Great Homeland War, for the disabled of the first and second groups, for the Chernobyls, for the military, for the country's teacher, for the country's physician. We're creating a system that requires the state to finance what belongs to the state, and social housing, local budgets. Today, there is no way in the local budgets to give one apartment to a loved one. Thus, it was directed to provide for the poor and the perfectly normal. And you asked questions about eviction. We've taken down the forced eviction rate. He's gone. It is precisely that the law on the reconstruction of microregions has been enforced, today it is withdrawn, and its compulsory is not paid at all, nor at all, and including only in court and no more, or by the consent of a citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u72	Jaroslav Suhi, please. Paul
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u74	And I'm answering. I can answer that one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u75	Jaroslav Suhi, he's asking a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u76	We made a decision on the committee next year, I made a proposal to the budget committee, two and a half billion dollars to plan for the construction of social housing, starting next year. And I'd like to ask you to support this proposal. We'll accept the code. We've been taking eight years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u77	Valerius Pavlovich, answer the questions asked by the microphone. Then explain to Petra Stepanovich. In Dry Time, it's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u78	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Ukraine. Why do you give in to small provocations? You're being murdered there now, the more they didn't vote in favour of the Housing Code, and they won't vote on the principle. You explain it to me now. I was at the beginning of the work committee when this Housing Codex was being discussed. He was going so hard. There was political speculation all the time around him. Explain what is happening. Why would the Supreme Council for the Housing Code and stand up for why the State Committee against? Who vetoed the president's remarks? There are certain things that are governed by the Civil Code. It's about--paid, paid, evicted or not evicted. What, for example, today frightens people. What exactly is going on? Who doesn't care if Ukraine gets the Housing Code with clear regulations on all social regulations, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u79	Okay. I thank you for asking. I commented on television, and in the Supreme Council, I said that this was already going to be a purely political order, and today those thinking about next year’s budget are reluctant to plan their housing because of the crisis today. And I'm sorry, Alexi Yuriovich Kucherenka, because after we adopted the Housing Code, it was unexpected for me that the veto would be imposed. Because they passed the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were no objections. But we've taken all the President's proposals into account, worked on it so that no one has any comments. If we go to the veto, we won't accept the Housing Code for another 100 years. And our citizens will never get housing, and here we have a clear system. And in addition, there will be a building industry. Today, in construction, the decline is minus 10 percent. I asked for everyone's support. The committee is asking for support with the President's proposals and for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u80	Thank you. Just to be clear, Valery Pavlovich, not all of the President's proposals you've taken into account, so this will be a new edition. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u81	I can tell you that during the negotiations, I told the President that you wanted to eliminate the queue and I would like to support it. [[I have witnesses who were present at the signing of the declaration, we invited everyone]] He said I'd agree and support, so I'm taking down the actual question of eliminating the queue. We've brought it all together.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u82	Okay, thanks. Please sit down. Clearly, no one signed up for the performance. So we're going to vote. From Mikhailo Stepanov's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u83	Stepanov, Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Socialist Party will not support this bill, primarily because of article 22 “Contents for the relocation of tenants and owners of dwellings in the implementation of investment projects”. It says that the owner of the apartment may be subject to a rule on the compulsory repurchase of housing on the grounds of social necessity. The social need is if the transportation is done, it's if the water is common to the whole city. And the investment project, which is primarily made for profit, is not a temporary necessity. And there's also, there's also article 105, in order to accurately formulate the emergency. What is a “suspenseful necessity” must be taken to one place and where an investor literally wants to make a profit, evict people and force a home ransom there. For these reasons, therefore, we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u84	Nigger, please, and we'll vote. Microphone, Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u85	Dear National Deputies, in a state of difficult reflection, I have taken the floor, this codex, the Housing Codex, we have been adopting for eight years. Now they're telling us everything that's been done under the tail, throw it all away, let's forget it and write a new codex. It's 8 years again, or again, or 10 years, I don't understand. I fully share what Deputy Dry said, what's going on? Who's behind this? Who's the buyer? Who's the killer? Why is it actually being destroyed? I share the view that the codex is somewhat imperfect. What changes could be made is a new edition, but why have we decided to bury such a hard - worked - out Housing Code in the Supreme Council right now? Let's do a new edition, but if we throw it out now and we write a new one, it's going to be 10 years again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u86	Thank you and we'll vote. Dear colleagues! Prepare for the vote, I don't know if any of you were watching the "Era" broadcast this morning, where one of our lawyers is quite famous, which is Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, speaking of these issues, said that compared to the code that is in force today, there is a better code than we are now proposing to adopt. Yes, I'll put it to a vote. We'll vote on the President's proposals first. The president proposes to reject the proposed Housing Codex. The President's proposal is put to the vote. [[17:26:22]] For-42 So the President's proposal is not supported, and then you and I are going to vote on the committee's proposal, but I'm going to clarify it in a new edition, because not all of the President's proposals have been taken into account by the committee. So I'm not saying it like the committee wrote that by agreeing to the proposal, I'm just saying it's "to adopt the Housing Code in the new edition." I'd like to make a statement. [[17:27:14]] For 148 So you and I supported the President's proposal and rejected the Housing Code. The factions? Please. Communists – 0, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 42, National Party – 4, “Our Ukraine” – 9, Block Timoshenko – 6, Socialists – 0, Ukrainian People’s Party – 18, “Forward Ukraine!” – 19, Social-Democratic Party (o) – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 5, “One Ukraine” – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 3, NDP, Trudova Ukraine – 10, non-fractional – 4. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 22.06.2005. Registration number 4475-1. First Deputy Minister of Finance, Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich, to prepare Bondarczuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u87	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings" adopted by the Supreme Council on 2 June 2005 cannot be signed by the President and you have been given the President's proposals before this Act. I would like to stop only at the very main and important points of these proposals and why this Law cannot be signed. First question. It is proposed that the citizens’ money savings made by January 2 — that is, those provided for by the law in force — be credited to the State’s domestic debt. And the second important point of this law is that it is proposed, starting in 2005, to compensate citizens for the loss of money savings as much as half the gross domestic product of the previous year and 10 percent the increase in gross domestic product. In the analysis of this law, we note that, first of all, this law is not in line with the existing legislation on government domestic debt, which is defined as the State's internal debt as the term debt of the Cabinet of Ministers in monetary form, which includes loans to the government of Ukraine and loans made on the unconditional guarantee of the government to secure the financing of public programmes. These savings are not part of the category of payments that refer to domestic government debt, so they cannot be credited according to legislation. The second question. If today the amount of lost savings on domestic government debt increases from 19 percent to almost 49 percent, or more than twice, in gross domestic product. This will mean that all the ratings of Ukraine, as a state, as well as its owners, will immediately fall, and we are, in fact, in the case of the adoption of this law, seriously damaging the economy of Ukraine. Next question. This law, which came to be signed by the President, runs counter to article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which stipulates that only the Budget Act determines the cost of common needs. And this law already provides for a specific calculation of the expenditure to be made for this purpose. And according to this calculation, it is already necessary this year, as the law is expected to be introduced from the date of its publication, to allocate 11 billion in this year and 12 billion in the following year. There's a budget for the Supreme Council today, and you're already familiar with it, and you know you can cut it down to 10 billion or 12 billion. add expenses. And finally, I want to say that the consequences of adopting this law are going to be harmful not only to the economy, but also to the income of the population, because it's an inflow, if we even theoretically found the funds for it and paid the citizens in a year of this 10 billion. above the social benefits that are still needed in the budget today for a normal economy, this will lead to an increase in prices and, in fact, a decline in the value of even more of these savings. So I don't think the adoption of this law is in the people's interest. The President's main findings are supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. In view of the foregoing, the president proposes that the law be drafted in a different way. It's also given to you. The basic elements of this new edition are that savings should be compensated in terms of the amounts defined by the State Budget Act for the year in question, i.e. not in advance, but in the State Budget Act, to define this article as a protected article. And it's suggested that costs go up at the rate that the nominal gross domestic product goes up. The president also proposes to conduct inventory by March 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u88	Yes, thank you. Everyone has read what the President has to say. Please sign up for three minutes. You son of a bitch. It's nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u89	Fucking Communist faction. Repeatedly these questions have been raised in our Supreme Council and should, I would stress again, John. Adam Ivanovich, that the question should be put to the vote and overcame the veto because of the people who. The ones we meet in the districts, they ask when they're going to solve the savings issues. These questions are often heard at meetings not only in villages but, above all, in areas where people live, as they say, on one pension. Today prices are rising, people are saying our savings have been invested in the industry in Soviet times, factories have been built, factories as long as we can wait, Belarus is already paying, Moldova is paying, Russia is paying. Older people can't wait for their savings. That's why we have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u90	Well, that's a wish, all right. Please, Darling, because there was no question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u91	I would like to clarify the next question. Please tell me we're considering a bill today. I know we have such bills, but I'm sorry, very, very much. Why the executive power of the Cabinet of Ministers has not systematically worked and passed a single bill. Why are these bills to some extent but they are always initiated by MPs? Why didn't the Cabinet of Ministers ever do that? And there's a problem here with the same President's veto, and today's battalions, and everything else. If they had worked, if they had provided a normal instrument to settle their arrears, I think no one would have opposed, including my colleague, Fomenco Ekaterina Alexandrovna, who is a co-author of one of these laws. And from here, I also have a question with our faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Tell us why we have never received a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers that would solve this problem comprehensively and we would not go through the veto further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u92	Thank you for asking. I agree with the question you're asking. It is in his remarks that the President proposes to take stock of these savings today, and by doing so. Because the last time we did it in 1996, already in that time, first of all, we've already given the money to pay off, already a billion 800 we've paid the citizens out of the budget. Then there were some changes. Carry out an inventory and provide a clear strategy for solving this issue, and this is what the government is currently working on. And that's going to be the answer to the question. Because any other solution right now is more likely to cause new problems than solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u93	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Mr. Vice Minister, when Yushchenko was sitting with us here in the hall and when we wanted him to come, we all said that we would find a mechanism to pay off the debt. You don't want to look in the Ministry of Finance? Do you wait for humans to die? We'll talk like that. Because that reminds me of your inventory, which you're now proposing, that's exactly what it's like. There's a normal mechanism. If you want, it would be possible for the law to enter into force not immediately, for after the destruction of Timoshenko it would be necessary to pass a time after this ruin. So I think that the arguments that are presented today are not the President's arguments, but the President never spoke of them. It's probably another facsimile that's set up, just like another law that we're going to be looking at today's veto, another one, I emphasize, facsimile, not the President's own opinion. I'm sure the President doesn't even know. Let's look, financiers, where, how.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u95	Well, I think that's a bit of a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u96	I want to say that's exactly what the President's proposal is: so that we don't now adopt any laws, make a good analysis of the situation that is, and then make it clear to the citizens, a step-by-step proposal to address this very important issue. It's not easy, and that's what's explained -- a great deal -- that we can't solve it all of a sudden, in one year or one budget. It's a really serious question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u97	Thank you, Anatoly Arkadyovich. Have a seat. Yuri Anatolyevich, it's about like: Odessa, who was occupied, and then who was not occupied. That's about right. Yes, please, Bondarczuk Alexander, three minutes and three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u98	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Dear President, People's Deputies. On the second June of this year, 284 votes in favour were voted in favour of a new edition of the Public Guarantees Act. That is, almost everyone in the room voted in favour of the new edition just a few months ago. I think it was the right, right decision. We have given the issue of the return of contributions to a truly public scale. How this problem is still being solved is propaganda. You understand that at this rate, if we pay off the arrears of wages, this is, here is an indication, 300, 250 years, that is to say, it is not at all comparable to the length of life we have today. By making a decision, by linking the approximate payments for these contributions in the area of 0.5 per cent of gross domestic product, and so in many countries the costs of some programmes are determined in relation to gross domestic product. Whether it is a military budget, it is linked to GDP, education, health. That's exactly what we did to you on June 2. We have determined that at least 0.5 per cent of GDP should be allocated to these objectives. We don't give a damn about that amount. We write at least 0.5 per cent of GDP. What is that in absolute terms? This, if you take 500 billion bracelets, let's say GDP, 0.5 percent is going to be 2.5 billion bracelets. Today we pay 500 million a year, we pay five times as much. Agree that, in order for our population to feel a change in this aspect, this is indeed a normal increase plus another ten percent increase in GDP, but given that we are this year, this year, we may not get any increase in GDP, we may go out somewhere, maybe that's two and a half billion. That is, the rapporteur here has slightly increased the cost projections under this heading. With regard to the President's comments. There is a claim that this cannot be attributed to domestic debt. I believe that it is precisely because we have not placed these obligations on the State's domestic debt, so we have a similar attitude to that of the problem. With regard to article 95, note that the President invites us to calculate the cost of this direction by also attaching ourselves to the growth rate of GDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u99	Yes, please, questions. Sign up, three minutes. Yes, please, Petrenko Volodymir. Karmazin Yuri to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u100	May I have the floor to pass on to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u101	Please, it's Zibank Peter's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u102	Thank you. The Communist faction, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled People of Cibenko Dear reporter, you know when it comes to the return of undervalued population contributions, we hear all sorts of excuses all the time. That's not enough, that's not enough, that's all. You don't think that our senior government leadership simply doesn't have the political will to deal with the poor, because in our immediate neighbours, let's say Russia, Belarus, in some other republics of the former Soviet Union, this problem, if not removed at all, is much less acute. So I'm going to ask you again. Do you not think that the superior leadership of the State simply lacks the political will to solve this extremely acute, painful problem? We will certainly vote in favour of overcoming the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u103	Peter Stepanović, as the author of this bill, together with Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, Ponomarenko, you know, of course, that there are, in principle, means to honour the State's obligations. Another issue, where to channel these funds, the current leadership, the bourgeois leadership, is that only a certain part of society is enriched, richer to become richer. Indeed, the problems of the rest of the population are not concerned with capitalizers, so there is no political will and it is a matter of never having this political will on the part of the capitalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u104	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u105	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! Tell me, please, what you're presenting right now is this table that we have given out for our second reading. Please tell me if you believe that the President will sign later, if Minfin will let him sign this law. Given what I heard today in the First Deputy Minister's report that they don't want to do it in principle, they don't want to do it in principle, not that there's about 0.5 percent of the gross domestic product, or 1 percent of the internal gross product. Nevertheless, we were with you today at the Amiant factory, we were at ANTC Antonova, and we saw people express themselves today about Balabuyeva. And do you know what the decision was then? Oh, no? A completely left - handed man is appointed who is definitely not accepted by the factory. So before that, do you believe that this law will then be signed?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u106	I can only say that if President Yushchenko does not sign this law, I hope that the deputies will vote, because there is nothing to say about this problem. If Yushchenko does not sign, he is actually fully in a position to answer for those words, those promises he made during the election. So after that we just have to resign, he has to say honestly, there's nothing I can do, it's all words, slogans, excuse me, go to evidence, to bees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u107	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues! Please be prepared. Please prepare, sign up, three minutes off procedure. Orzhachowski, followed by Sergey Žizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u108	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orazkhovsky, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonian. I think that each of us national deputies is obliged today to take part in the vote and overcome the President's veto. When we were in the districts, we were glad to hear the Supreme Council's "thanks" from the voters. Thanks to the Supreme Council, she finally admitted that it was a sovereign debt to her population. And here, they say, we're here. We hear from the deputy minister that this will harm our Ukrainian people. We've done less damage in recent revolutions than we have done in the past, and we don't understand that most of the problems in the country are there, and we've brought trouble. So I think it's true if we vote and beat the veto today. That's what I'm calling everyone to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u109	Yes, please, Sergey Zizko, follow by Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u110	Sergey Žizko, faction of our Ukraine. The problem of the restored lost savings of Ukrainian citizens in savings institutions is one of the hottest. People put labor money into the future for their children, or on a black day. Almost nine years ago, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Savings of Ukrainian Citizens, which required the State to ensure the restoration of the real value of employment savings. He also guaranteed compensation at the expense of the State budget, starting in 1997. However, small sums were made available for repayment, and for 1996 it set the amount of $132 billion in debt. In early 2005, the Supreme Council passed a law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees and Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. Yet this Law is populist, for its authors clearly wanted to look convenient in front of the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u111	Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u112	Thank you. Please pass the word to Victor Teren-Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u113	Here's Terrena-Taran's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u114	That's it, thank you. Teren, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear friends, here is one, all speaking MP, everywhere still speaking MP, indirectly accused Julia Timoshenko of not returning supplies and talking about ruins and so forth. But it takes such a ruin of soul and memory to forget that Julia Timoshenko is the author and coauthor of the five bills, perhaps no one has produced so many bills for return. Including, Timoshenko's government was the only one who actually started to return savings, at least by way of re-assurance. So you have to have some kind of, let's say, basic conscience. And by the way, it was Julia Timoshenko who insisted on, please look at the Internet to make the GDP not even 0.5, and one percent of GDP from the previous year on the return of savings. And that's what people know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u115	Thank you. Question completed. Please, let's focus and really remember. Yuri Anatoliyovich came out, saying that recently the bill had almost everyone's friendly support. I don't think it's a big fault that we're admitting it as a sovereign debt. Because we're not saying we have to pay him off tomorrow. There's a few suggestions and I'll put them in order. The president's proposal is to accept it in a new edition and he's proposing it. Therefore, I am the first to put to the vote the President's proposal to enact the Law in the form he proposes. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:51:20]] For-129 Not accepted. The second proposal is a proposal from a professional committee that proposes to overcome the veto on this law. Please vote. [[17:51:48]] For 236 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Communists 55, Ukrainian People's Party 36, National Party 30, Our Ukraine 2, Block Timoshenko 29, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, Socialists - 23, Forward Ukraine! - 20, Social Democrats - 12, Reforms and Orders - 0, One Ukraine - 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 13, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, NDP, Trudova Ukraine - 2, non-fractional - 6. And another offer. You have a table in front of you where the President's proposals are partially taken into account. So I'm voting on the adoption of the Law on State Guarantees for the Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings in a New Edition, Bill No. 4475-1. Please vote. In a new edition with partial agreement on the President's proposals. [[17:53:01]] For 284 We repeated what we had recently adopted with such a number of laws. The factions. The Communists – 56, the Ukrainian People's Party – 37, the People's Party – 33, Our Ukraine – 5, Block Timoshenko – 34, Ukrainian People's Party – 17, Socialists – 25, Forward Ukraine! – 20, SDPU(o) – 16, Reforms and Orders – 2, One Ukraine – 6, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, People's Movement – 9, NDP, Trudova Ukraine – 3, Postfraction – 8. I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes, and let's do it, dear fellows. More quickly, we have a few more bills with the President's proposals. The Ukrainian Act on the Order of Appointment of Presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the Cessation of Their Powers, with proposals from the President. Registration number 5459-d. We've been discussing this project with you recently. So if there's any questions, please let's go to the Deputy Head of the State Television Committee, the radio talk by Peter Victor Mikhailovich on the question, because we've discussed it with you recently. Three minutes to ask, please. Please, Marcus Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u116	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. I wanted to ask you, why is it so rare to be recorded and shown by members of the opposition factions, especially the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u117	Well, Victor Mikhailovich doesn't write. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u118	No, I'll tell you. You know that the order of disclosure of the activities of the Supreme Council is provided for by the relevant regulations, and these rules apply directly to the National Television Company of Ukraine. Sadly, they have recently stopped preparing these programs. After our comments, they will examine. I hope this situation is levelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u119	Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Dry, you have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u120	Thank you. I think that this bill, which has an extremely important role in political life, can most professionally ask the National Deputy of Ukraine, Cherniak. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u121	Please, Vladimir Cherniak, continue your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u122	I am very grateful to you, Jaroslav, and this obliges me to work better, your high score. I'd like to say about what, really. The order of appointment of the presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the termination of their powers is very important; it was legislatively uncertain. It is defined in this law. There's only one question, I think, is why the President is against the law that he is deprived of the ability to influence this process. How do you think this compromise can be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u123	This compromise can only be settled legislatively. You know that the mandate of the President, the mandate of Parliament, is enshrined in the Constitution. So when it comes to the President having the right to influence this issue, whether Parliament should consider it, these powers of parliament and the President should be extended in the Constitution or amended directly, for example, in the Television and Radio Act. But this must be the norm of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u124	Thank you. Please, Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u125	If you don't mind, one more minute. You know that today Parliament is considering this series of bills that have in mind a change in the system of Ukrainian television and radio broadcasting, such as the creation of social television, the reorganization of the National Television Company, it is likely that these laws should be adopted first, and then, perhaps, taken into account there, in these laws. Because you're going to take the president today, and in a month or two, there's not going to be any TV companies at all. Therefore, the status of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the National Radio Company of Ukraine, needs to be brought back to normal. Of course, much depends on the manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u126	Please, Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u127	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Vaszczuk Katherina Timofievni.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u128	Please, Katerina Vaschuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u129	Dear reporter, I have a question like this. Of course, it is vital that, in addition to commercial television, the radio should be state - owned where the official state view would be displayed. Tell me, what position do you have here, because it depends on how long will we assign these leaders? Will social talk, social television, ever be possible? And the second question. How can this really be a point of view of the state, balanced, clear, not of the individual leaders of the state who work in state structures but work for their political powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u130	Thank you. Regarding the prospects for social television. World experience has shown that this is the most progressive and democratic form of television and radio broadcasting. But we need to understand that when we do this, we need to take into account our realities today, and if we are formally state. Socially, there can be many calamities here, so let's say the State Committee advocates doing this work in stages without breaking what is today. As far as national television is concerned. In general, I believe that if the state respects itself, it should have some optimal minimum of both the state press and the state radio and state television, where the state’s position is objectively reflected. As far as I'm concerned. In principle, Parliament and each session will decide how to explain the work of Parliament. There are laws that regulate the disclosure of public authorities and local self - government. In this regard, it is obvious that more control is needed to ensure that these laws are adhered to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u131	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Pravdenko Sergey Markovich. One minute to argue. If there are any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the veto was imposed on November 11, 2004. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, this is for you, colleague. Veto imposed by President Kuchma, please note that. Now there's a situation in the national television company, and we don't know who's running it, and we have to look into it. The bill proposes that the President nominates, and the Supreme Council sees this issue as an urgent matter. The appeal by the President of the National Television or the President proposes to review his written report and the result may be that the Supreme Council is releasing him, or 100 members of the Supreme Council are initiating a report by the President of the National Television Company and the Supreme Council either dismisses him or does not release him. Thus, the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine become essentially the supervisory board of the national television channel. It's the best supervisory advice not to come up with in our society, in my belief, because the influence of both is balanced, let's say, branches of power. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to support this also because this is a real step towards creating social television and radio in Ukraine is not in theory.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's take into account what the representative of the committee said, given that we are now looking at the veto of the previous president, we will treat you wisely and overcome it. But first, I put the proposal in the order of procedure defined by the Constitutional Court. First comes the proposal of the President, the previous President of Kuchma, to reject the bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:02:11]] For-27 I'm betting on the vote on a proposal from the veto committee, and I'm asking you to be friendly. We're approaching the election, let's vote. [[18:02:39]] For 253 The factions, please. Communists – 56, Ukraine – 29, National Party – 40, Our Ukraine – 5, Timoshenko – 31, Socialists – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, Forward, Ukraine! – 17, Social Democrats – 0, Reforms and Order – 1, One Ukraine – 10, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 8, People's Movement of Ukraine – 6, NDP, Labour of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 8. Are we going to mobilize or not? Who's to vote again? Please. [[18:03:39]] For 212 None. Dear colleagues, and if we do, let's take it in a new edition, the essence of which is what this is all about. The committee now proposes that the author, the subject of the hearing, be 100 national deputies to the hearing of the company’s presidents. We have, in fact, in all the normative acts, including the Constitution, at least one third of the people's deputies. So if we change the number 100 to 150 and we send the new edition to the president? No objections? Please vote. It's a new edition. It's 100 over 150. Vote. [[18:04:34]] For 238. Copy that. Yes, dear colleagues, the point of sitting determines the point of opinion. The Ukrainian Act on the Status of Investigators, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is being complied with. Registration number 4125. First Deputy Justice Minister Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna Please, let's sign up for a question, if there is, because here the idea fits, in principle, to accept in the new edition, the committee agrees. Please. Matthew Vladimir, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u134	I now give the floor to Eshchenko Vladimir Nikolaevich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u135	Ještenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u136	Fucking Communist faction. We are repeatedly approached by law enforcement officials in our seats. It's overworked, it's a new law, so the faction of Communists suggests that we put this question to a vote and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u137	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u138	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, the city of Zaporozhye, a faction of the Ukrainian political party. Dear Inna Ivanovna, well, as a former officer of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I find the most distasteful of the personnel pogroms that have taken place today in our internal affairs bodies. I think, for example, that this bill would have to be adopted without any change, because it's designed normally to interest people in work, because investigators are the nucleus, the brain center of any law enforcement agencies -- it's something that everyone needs to remember. I have such a question to ask you, however, please tell me what you think, if you leave this article unchanged, where it comes from that the investigator is intact, to grant him any rights as we have guaranteed the rights of the City Council MP. And with regard to the position on additional guarantees of social protection, what is your point of view? Intactness and additional guarantees of social protection for our investigators.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u139	Thank you for asking. As for the issue of integrity, I have a clear position on the fact that this is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly because of the fact that the exclusive list of those concerned by the issue of integrity is defined by the basic law of Ukraine. Some of the presidents of Ukraine, Ukrainian national deputies, what we have is a question of guarantees, including judges, in some part. With regard to the question of the establishment of additional social guarantees, this is not a question of the contradiction of a law, it is a question of the relevance and capacity of the State budget, the establishment of such guarantees. I personally have no objection to such guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u140	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u141	Tell me, please, that you have an interesting phrase that you have no objection to it personally, but you are here on a large scale not as an official, but as a representative of the government as a whole. Please indicate, as the observation states, that the introduction of this law will result in additional budgetary costs, the order of the figures involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u142	The figures of order, estimated to be 280 million dollars for the table where it was given, were the main problem with the fact that the bill that you voted for the President’s signature provided that it would become effective on January 1, 2006. The law, the draft State Budget Act, did not foresee such funds for the following year, so this observation and it was written in the President's proposals, which was primarily related to the acquisition of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u143	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Maria Marcus from the profile committee, one minute, just the thought of the profile committee, not talking about the battalions that were there, but the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u144	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act on the Status and Procedural and Social Guarantees of the Investigations of Ukraine, which has been brought back to the President of Ukraine with its four amendments, and I have also made three amendments with the aim of aligning the text of the law with the amendments made by the President of Ukraine. These suggestions are taken into account. The committee therefore proposes that this law be adopted in a new form and generally as a law. This law is long overdue; we have no competition in the stage of pretrial investigation. And so in order to ensure the status of the investigator in order to ensure his procedural independence, this law is absolutely necessary. You're not one time, maybe not just more references in this room, it's a petition to the law enforcement agencies, and most of them refer to exactly what's on the investigation. So I very much ask you, your honors, to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u145	Well, please, Manchulenko, he wants one question. Let's let him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u146	George Manchulenco 203 constituency, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter! My colleagues and I from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party tend to believe that the status of investigators should be regulated by law. We don't quite understand this coalition that's standing in front of us right now. The president proposes that this law be repealed as it already duplicates certain legislative rules, while there is a letter on the other hand signed by the Minister of Internal Affairs – Yuri Lucenka, the exact opposite content, so what is the position to maintain? What led up to this situation is the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Yuri Lucenko, how to be in this situation, it is very difficult for us to understand and understand. And we need to regulate the status of investigators, but we need to get out of some one-size-fits-all approach, not from the factions that we have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u147	So it's a respectable colleague! I want to make it clear to you that these proposals, which were made by the President, state that the status of the investigator is governed by the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences and the Law on State Protection of the Workers of the Court and the Law Protection Authorities. This proposal is completely incompetent because the Administrative Procedure Code says nothing about the investigator and his status. There is absolutely no language in the Criminal Code, because the Criminal Code is the norm of material law, not procedural law. And in the Criminal Procedure Code itself, there are only three articles that regulate the position of the investigator, and yet they're so imperfect and vaguely written, and we've been trying to remove this gap by developing a new draft of the Criminal Procedure Code. But only one God knows when he will be. And in principle, we tried to avoid duplication of the articles that are in the Criminal Procedure Code. So I made these three amendments to rule out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-04-m1.u148	Thank you. Please sit down. Now we're going to vote and I'm going to help Maria Andriyevna say, she said it right, but I'll put it simply. Veto was prepared by the Ministry of Justice, and the Law is required for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Here's the answer to your question. Yeah, it's all right. It's all right. It's all right. I'm putting the President's proposal to reject this bill first. [[18:12:56]] For the four of us. Of course, one Carmazin gave almost four votes, “against” is meant. Dear colleagues, let us then listen to the opinion of the committee of profile, we will accept this bill in a new edition, but with the wish that the investigators “be on the high” and that there be as little claim as possible to their work. We're voting for a new editorial. [[18:13:41]] For 264 The law was passed in a new order. Ukraine's Amendments and Supplements Act. Wait, please don't yell, well, we've got two minutes, we'll be fine. Ukraine's Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, with the President's Proposals of 15/07. In 2005, registration number 7540. Here are all the authors who have a bearing on this, both the President and the PIC propose that this bill be repealed. That's why I'm putting this proposal to a profile committee that matches the president's view of repealing this bill. Please vote. [[6:14:42]] For 171 Not accepted. But that doesn't mean anything, because if we haven't made any decisions, it's also a positive decision that the bill isn't supported. What's the point? If we didn't accept anything, it's not there. Again? Let's get this bill out of the way for cleanliness. It's a decision and a committee of profile, and a president. Vote. Anyway, if we don't vote it's going to be over, there's not going to be any other decision. [[18:15:28]] For 176 There are no other suggestions, so the Law did not receive support for cancellation, so it is not in nature; it is rejected. I see you have no desire to work. So, dear fellows, this is where we're going to end. Tomorrow we'll try to work, first we'll look at the ratification, then what's left today, and then we'll go today and Wednesday as far as we can. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
