ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:00]] The 392 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Hare John Alexanderovich. Let us welcome our colleague and wish him good health. Now for the announcements, dear colleagues. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dry Jaroslav Mihajlovich, from the Democratic Ukraine Deputy Group and its entry into the Ukrainian Dept. Yes, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I will inform you of the departure of Ukrainian national deputies Galijev Ernest Eduardoovich, Jaroslav Alexander Vladlenović and Jaroslav Alexija Vladlenović from the Group "Democratic Initiatives" and their membership in the faction of the People's Party. Yes, dear colleagues, according to the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council, today at the morning meeting is the next government day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But before that, we need to consider some organizational issues. Please, there is a need to exchange ideas. Sign up, five minutes. Vladimir Stretovic, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u2	Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Stratovic, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, we debated on the Conciliation Council for a long time yesterday whether we should continue our work for a week if we don't do the plan. That's why there's this proposal: to look at today's work, after tomorrow, and then to adopt the decision to continue the session until the 16th, because we've never in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism finished the work on July 8th. And the committee work should be replaced by the busy work in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u3	Thank you for this offer. We agreed yesterday that I would put a motion to vote today to continue our work from 18 to 20 hours. Let's look at the reaction, and then we'll figure it out. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u5	Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about this, as well as our constituents, especially in Konotap, that the so-called new authorities are intensifying political repression during the elections. In this case, the Communist Hinzburg was elected mayor of Konotap on Sunday. To this national deputy, Hinzburg was tried by a court and was not allowed to vote on July 1st in this case, in a court decision: there is information on the Internet that, as if Hinzburg were voting in the hall, she has no right to take part in the election of the mayor of the city. Such a judicial branch has no experience. A new authority is being bullied. It's not Mukachev's -- it's much worse. Because the administrative political resource against the communists is directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Andrew Schlell is invited to the presentation. As to the information, I gave the commission yesterday to the head of the Temporary Special Commission, Victor Musiaci, to study the matter on the spot. On his part, he gave a telegram, welcoming Hinzburg Olga to the mayor of the city. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u8	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. I actually wanted to work for the Supreme Council. I don't know if I can really continue it for a week, but I still encourage you to support the offer and work 2 hours longer than minimum. And every day, because the world's parliaments, I can give you information that the world parliaments are voting at 10 p.m., 11 p.m., and everything's fine, they're working because we really have a working day until 6 p.m., that's what we've accepted, but we can make an exception. I'd say work not even till 8:00, but until 9:00. I think it's going to increase productivity, because in the evening, as we know, productivity is increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u9	John Durres, faction of the Ukrainian National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u11	George Manchulenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u12	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Today we need to consider extremely important issues, including those related to Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party insists that we adopt the ad hoc procedure and report on this matter to the authorized ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So that we can have a full discussion, because we don't object to joining the World Trade Organization, but we need to clearly build rules to protect our national interests and our producers. That's the first question. The second question. To be able to deal with these problems, we either need to continue the plenary sessions for another week, or we need to extend the two hours of work each day. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party insists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to say that we don't need to make decisions ad hoc, because we need to report those who are authorized by the government, or ministers, and report on every law. Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Please, the microphone. Please, the microphone. You don't? Mikhailo Ratushny, faction. Gmira, I'm sorry. The bush before that. Sergey Gmira, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u14	Please, pass the word to Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u15	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u16	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Now there's almost a cut in the part of our ad hoc voting room. But let's make ad hoc to those who hang, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for two weeks with photos on your stand and violate the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Let's put all the halls together and make them ad hoc and their cards. And then we're going to solve other more problematic issues. Here's the proposition of our faction. Thank you very much. Get off the Supreme Council, get out of the concierge's hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! We exchanged questions of procedure and motivation for our work. Now we have to look at the issue of the formation of an oath and the termination of the powers of the national deputies, and then we have to move on to Government Day. But, honourable colleagues, given the suggestions that we need to review the bills, including the urgent bills initiated by the President and the Government, I ask your approval that we continue the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 20 hours, at least 20 hours. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote on the continuation of the plenary meeting in the evening by 20 o’clock. Please vote. [[10:10:47]] For 203 Thank you, dear colleagues. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 53, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 1, People's Party - 23 Block Timoshenko - 36, SPU - 22, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 10, Democratic Ukraine - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 15, Party "Industrials, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" - 10, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 10. Please mobilize, hold consultations, and I will put this proposal back to the vote in time. Dear colleagues, colleagues, on June 25, 2005, the Central Electoral Commission registered Dedenko Yuri Volodymirovich as Ukrainian national deputy in a multi-mandatory state-run election district from the political party block of the Viktor Yuschenk "Our Ukraine". Chosen on March 31, 2002, in a multi-mandate national constituency. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Volodymyrovich Didenko, is invited to make an oath. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u18	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine - Valentin Grigorovich Matviev is invited to consider the issue of the early termination of the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputies before the speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u21	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you all know that it was premature to leave life on June 22th our colleague, Plujniki Igor Aleksandrovich. Therefore, a draft decree is being made to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Plužnikov. Please support the decision, which states: To suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian National Deputy Plujnikov Igor Aleksandrovitch, elected in the multi-mandatory national constituency of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine in connection with death. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy Igor Aleksandrovič Plužnikova is being submitted to your consideration. [[Registration number 7758]] [[10:14:21]] For 316 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today at the morning meeting of the next Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 13 January 2005 set out its theme "On measures taken by the Government to improve the efficiency of State ownership management in statutory funds of companies privatized and incorporated by the State." The government appointed the Head of the Fund of State Property and Minister of Economy of Ukraine to report on the issue. You've been given the information and help you need. In accordance with the government’s date, a professional committee proposes such a procedure for dealing with the issue, more specifically, with such a rule of procedure. Informants should be given up to 10 minutes each and 45 minutes to answer written and oral questions, that is, an hour and a half. For presentations by representatives of the profile committee and the special committee on privatization issues, take up to 10 minutes and take the rest of the time to the debate. Is there no other offer? One point is that the Cabinet of Ministers is asking to identify a reporter from the Cabinet of Ministers for the First Deputy Minister of Economics of Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich. No warning? Then let us move on to the question. The report invites the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Valentina Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u23	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, national deputies, radio listeners. During the 13 years of independence, the State has tried almost all of the world’s known attempts to direct or indirect management of its facilities. At the same time, the lack of significant results was primarily not in successful or unsuccessful management attempts but in a real political desire to achieve positive results. Virtually all of Ukraine’s government schemes are used in other states, but much more effective. The implementation of the policy's effectiveness in governance of corporate rights of the state has been made more difficult by the state's accumulated corporate portfolio of small shares created as a result of the implementation of the mass system in the country, I repeat, by mass privatization, which has not been implemented by established legislation. Please show privatization data on the board. In the register of corporate rights, the state has 1,375 companies with statutory foundations with a state share. Of these, 1,243 are open and closed stock companies, 96 are limited companies, 36 are national stockholders and state holdings, and only 28 percent have a government share of more than 50 percent in the statutory fund. 34 percent have state ownership, a government share of 25 percent to 50 percent, and 38 percent have a government share of less than 25 percent, which makes it impossible for the state to fully manage and monitor the activities of such societies. With 1266 corporate rights, the State Property Fund has a statutory capital of 14 billion. That's right. At the same time, the government and the ministry have 107 corporate rights. These data show that the Fund has largely corporate rights of small and medium-sized enterprises. A separate place in the corporate rights portfolio is held by stocks transferred to statutory funds of state, national, and holding companies. Each of these companies represents a group that consists of dozens of companies whose state-owned shares have been transferred to their administration without a clear definition of the right, who owns them - a state or a specific holding. In the management of such companies, more than 300 high-level government stocks were concentrated. The legal uncertainty of the status of these corporate rights has caused companies to alienate themselves from state-owned stocks outside privatization. An example is the DAC of Patchpapyprom. The stock package sold the holding itself, and the cost of privatization was not directed to the budget, as stipulated by the legislation, but rather to itself. A similar implementation took place in the "Resources" DAC. In the structure of corporate rights, States continue to occupy a significant segment of businesses affected by bankruptcy, whose credit defaults were mainly created by the year 2000. As of April 1, 2005, 321 households or 23 percent of the total are still in bankruptcy. The government’s analysis of existing mechanisms for corporate governance shows a wide range of outstanding problems. The practice of artificial bankruptcy of farm societies has been widely distributed, the depreciation of the state share, the unwarranted additional issue of shares, and the creation of joint ventures with a state share, whose statutory funds do not provide State control over their assets. Unfortunately, this process of creating societies has been used by certain powerful financial and industrial groups to realize their own business interests, ignoring the interests of the state. It is unfortunate that today a system of joint ventures and privatizations has been established, when it is necessary to transfer the premises from one ministry to another, the Cabinet of Ministers' decision is needed, and on the other hand, to privatize or create a joint venture, you can have only one deputy minister or deputy minister's visa, and this does not require a Cabinet decision. Therefore, the Law on the Administration of State Property requires that we eliminate this system of privatization today. One of the schemes to lead to fictitious bankruptcy is to get loan managers in banks under mortgages, surpluses, and other unfavourable conditions. A clear example of such a device is "Secondiselmash", "Lvivsilmash." According to the information available in the fund from 2001 to 2004, a total of 60 billion dollars was forced to take into account liquid assets. And it's a shame that only 4 billion went into the budget. Therefore, the law on the imposition of a moratorium on forced enforcement. the implementation of property aimed at ensuring the economic security of the state, preventing the destruction of entire property complexes, and so please support it. This bill is in the session room. In addition, the issue of amending Ukraine’s existing laws, implementing legislation, how to pay taxpayers’ obligations to the budget and to state trust funds needs to be addressed as quickly as possible, with the highest possible control over the preservation of state property. And only with these changes taken into account will the bill be adopted. Such a bill is currently being developed and will be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers as soon as possible. In spite of the absence of a basic law on the administration of public property objects to the legal uncertainty of the status and authority of the executive authorities, which directly or indirectly exercise corporate rights management functions, the head of the fund’s management focused on the implementation of a systemic approach in the administration of public property. To this end, a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers was created and adopted, which provides for the creation of a register of government property and property on the balance sheet and the property transferred to the lease. A software and technology complex created by the Foundation will allow for full analysis, continuous analysis of the conservation and inventory of such objects. In the current year, the government is planning to do the most -- still fill the budget with corporate rights. Total number of dividends from business entities created by State participation, as at 1 / 06 By 2005, it was already 700.6 million dollars. The annual dividend assignment of five months in 2005 has already been completed by 131 percent. But the overall picture is much more negative. The results of some national stockholder holding companies today require a better one. Unfortunately, today we've suffered losses from a company like NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, which has reduced the net revenue by seven billion 118.6 million dollars. The "Resources" DAC is 187.6 million dollars. The Nadra of Ukraine is 30.6 million. The Government of the People's Programme and the "Owning of the Ukrainian People" programme, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, introduces a systematic approach to corporate rights management, which provides for the development of standard company statutes, regulation of administrations, contracts with business managers, etc. More stringent conditions have been introduced for the adoption of financial contributions and reports, the review of the composition of supervisory boards and governments, the implementation of the Systemic Law on the Administration of State Property Objects on the Legal Uncertainty of the Status and Powers of Executive Authorities, which directly or indirectly carry out corporate rights management functions, the head of the Fund’s management focused on the implementation of a systemic approach in the administration of public property. To this end, a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers was created and adopted, which provides for the creation of a register of government property and property on the balance sheet and the property transferred to the lease. A software and technology complex created by the Foundation will allow for full analysis, continuous analysis of the conservation and inventory of such objects. In the current year, the government is planning to do the most -- still fill the budget with corporate rights. Total number of dividends from business entities created by State participation, as at 1 / 06 By 2005, it was already 700.6 million dollars. The annual dividend assignment of five months in 2005 has already been completed by 131 percent. But the overall picture is much more negative. The results of some national stockholder holding companies today require a better one. Unfortunately, today we've suffered losses from a company like NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, which has reduced the net revenue by seven billion 118.6 million dollars. The "Resources" DAC is 187.6 million dollars. The Nadra of Ukraine is 30.6 million. The Government of the People's Programme and the "Owning of the Ukrainian People" programme, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, introduces a systematic approach to corporate rights management, which provides for the development of standard company statutes, regulation of administrations, contracts with business managers, etc. More stringent conditions have been introduced for the adoption of financial contributions and reports, the review of the composition of supervisory boards and governments, and the introduction of systematic training of State representatives in closed stock companies. The State Property Fund conducts continuous monitoring of the implementation of investment commitments. So far, the State Property Fund has developed and sent 11 bills to the Supreme Council, of which 2 have already been adopted in the first reading. And I would like to address you, fellow members of the national parliament, without the law on the State Property Fund, it is virtually impossible to work today. For failing to enforce enforcement today against me, as head of the holding fund, seven executives have been opened up and thanks only to the Ministry of Justice, these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u24	Allow the head of the holding fund to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u25	And I would very much like to draw attention to the fact that today those bills that we are sending to the session hall that are designed to cancel when the courts intervene in the decision when to sell objects, to whom, to what extent and at what cost they have no right to do so, because without these decisions being carried out without the decisions of the courts, the execution decision is immediately included, and for failure to execute the executive action against the management of the State Property Fund, criminal cases are opened. This is the sad reality we have today. So I would particularly like to ask you about the support and adoption of those laws that will enable the Fund to work in a stable way and to preserve the state property that will serve the Ukrainian people, the one that will serve our economy and will supplement the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the report of the head of the State Property Fund has been completed. Let us turn to questions and answers. In practice, let's do it this way. We'll ask one question directly from the national MPs, and the other question is written. I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the head of the State Property Fund. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Tkalenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u27	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! Today, you have analyzed the situation that has arisen in the plan to privatize various objects in our country. Recently, a group of members of the People’s Movement was on Donbassa, and we faced a situation where part of the mines or mining complexes were unwarrantedly leased into private hands, and this resulted in serious situations in a closed production cycle. Your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. I mean, so far there is a law on renting state and municipal property, which clearly provides for the mechanisms for transferring such property to a lease. Where the property transferred to the lease is ineffectively used, the Maintenance Fund has such a mechanism as the return to state ownership and the dissolution of the lease. I'd like you to give me specific examples on those mines, and then I'm going to take appropriate action on such unhappinessed tenants who are inefficiently managing the property that is transferred to or leased to them. This needs to be done on a case-by-case basis. My attitude today may be one thing. There is a law to be done. In the meantime, I will answer the question raised by the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Households, Property and Investment. How and by what method is an evaluation of the effectiveness of State ownership in the statutory funds of privatized state societies and societies created by State participation carried out? The Ukrainian State Property Fund conducts a quarterly analysis of the activities of privatization authorities in the management of corporate rights in agricultural societies. The results of the analysis clearly reflect such criteria and reflect such reporting characteristics as corporate rights structure, financial activity analysis, management analysis. Clearly, we also issued an appropriate order from the State Property Fund, which provided for criteria for assessing the efficiency of the administration. Such criteria are social, or, as it were, non-commercial, for enterprises that carry out government functions, economic functions, or commercial functions. If such enterprises are inefficient in management and debt on wages increases, payments increase, this work is defined as ineffective. This sets the cost-effectiveness ratio of such enterprises, its level is 001 percent, if it goes down, this coefficient is registered as a positive, if it goes up to the increase -- this coefficient is used as a negative and goes down to the court, and the corresponding sales contracts are broken. This is the information that's given to you by hand, the corresponding comparative tables, and you can read, like, analyze this kind of analysis in terms of both sectors and territories. We have provided such material to the members of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u29	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u30	Thank you. Your Honor, I have two questions for you. The first question is, is there a lot of talk today about NAC's damage to Naftogaz Ukraine, but I can't figure out what's going on around Ukraine's Naftogaz, more and more millionaires? What does the State Property Fund do to avoid this absurdity? And the second question is, please tell me, at your time as head of the Privatization Commission, you were asking questions about the return of the Crookstals to state property, to the people. Today, as head of the State Property Fund, you are preparing a new reselling tender. What have these rings ceased to be criminal? Are we still trying to leave this property in the hands of the same people that it turned out to be an illegal way? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u31	Peter Stepanovich, according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, NAK Naftogaz Ukraine was created by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, and is directly subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers. And as you noted in my report, I made it clear that we have 36 holding companies today. All of them have property transferred to the right of order, not to the right of operation, that is, they have the right to manage themselves, to make decisions about alienation, to sell, and even to keep the funds from privatizing themselves. I even said that in the report as a negative. Therefore, with the adoption of the Law on the Administration of State Property, we should put a dot. Or we're going to have 36 holding companies, it's actually a state in the state, because it's actually 36 other cabinets of ministers, because they're also making decisions without permission from the Cabinet of Ministers, decisions both by alienation and by implementation, and all financial plans. So it's like a negative, and I think the deputy minister is going to talk about it. And they don't apply to the sphere of government, NAK Naftogaz Ukraine does not apply to the administration of the State Property Fund. Unfortunately, today we have this situation of "seven babysitters and a noseless child," and today we have a number of government assets management structures. Everything about the question of the Crevices, my position remains unchanged. Today, there is a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare for sale. The State Property Fund today has one function: to carry out this position. My position remains the same: it's not necessary to sell Chrystal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u32	That's right. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u33	It's the only Ukrainian faction. What measures are planned by the government to ensure payment of dividends in societies where the state is. A tar stockholder? Unfortunately, I want to say that this is the most painful issue today for both the State Property Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, 14 million shareholders today are small shareholders who cannot influence the decisions of the general congregations in one society or another. The same is true of the State. That's why we sent to the Supreme Council a draft law amending some of the legislation on protection of rights. Shareholders. And I hope that the Supreme Council will adopt this relevant legislative document and allow us to influence today's dividend decision even where the state has more than one percent of the shares, ending 25 percent. There is practically no way to influence it at this time. So I think we're going to change the law and we're going to be able to influence it accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u34	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u35	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine". Valentino Petrovy, three short questions that you yourself have repeatedly raised in the media and supported the general public. Question one. Whether or not you're planning to conduct a socio-economic impact analysis, a privatized and non-privatized enterprise from the State Property Fund. That's the first question. The other one. I, as a majority deputy, share your concern about the court-martial that exists in Ukraine today, especially in matters of property, when the court, not the competition, does not decide the budget. We have these, by the way, MPs here and they're sitting here in court. And the third question. This room has repeatedly raised the issue of the property of trade unions. You know perfectly well that there's really a lot of money invested in individual industries, in the sanatorium, in the restrooms, and then transferred to the management of the factories. How do you feel about being the head of the government’s estate manager? Is it time to deal with this property, the property of the professional organizations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u36	Thank you, Jaroslav Petrovich. First of all, the first question. I mean, there was a public hearing yesterday from representatives of scientific institutions, labor groups, the media. And we've set up a public council at the head of the State Property Fund, where we invite representatives of the public to study both the issues and the social issues that you're talking about. That's where we invited the representatives of the union that I think the work of this body will allow for a wider involvement of the public in a detailed analysis of the consequences of privatization and the negatives that we have today. This has already been done. And I think that this institution, the public council at the head of the holding fund, is going to work effectively. And I think you can come to a meeting of this kind of public council. With regard to the inventory of the trade union’s objects. What I'm saying is that according to the President's mandate and according to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations at this time, I've already told you in the report, we're doing an inventory of state property. Similarly, we started work on inventory and professional property, because today we can't say that everything belongs directly to the unions. We have part of the company property built by the state, part by the company's contributions, part by the Social Insurance Fund. And if we're going to run such a registration today, and you've seen on the board that we've already created such a register, we're going to be able to adequately influence and predict this register as much as the property of who and what the owners need to create on the basis of this property. Not one official will be responsible for either the company’s function, but it will be possible to see at what cost and how this appropriate object is managed. You know, by the courts, I was saying by accident that I'm asking you not to take the MP's mandate off of me. There's only one thing I can say: he's sitting there with Minister Zvaricz, who can say that after one object, seven criminal cases were opened to me because I didn't sign the sale of the object to one of the people you called and thought in this room. But thanks to the fact that we have the Ministry of Justice, this action has not been done. Today, courts decide who to sell, how much to sell, and even at what price, and even at the prices of 2000.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u37	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u38	The Socialist Party faction: "How many enterprises have been created and how much has property been transferred to statutory funds?" During 2000-2004 62 farm societies were created by the State Property Fund. At present, 154 societies account for the total nominal value of state corporate rights, a state share of 4 billion 700 million. This is the number of joint ventures today. All these dividends are paid according to current legislation. Every quarter we conduct a survey of the dividends and the financial results of these enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u39	Yes, please, Alexander Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u40	Alexander Shevchenko, Dnipropetrovština, 39th constituency, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Dear Valentina Petrovna! I support your speech, and, indeed, with you coming into this position, much has changed, and this is what the people of Ukraine feel. And those 11 bills that are now being tabled, they're fundamentally re-examined. But it has long been known that the state is not always the best owner, and perhaps it is right for them to be co-owners and take the path of privatization. I have a specific question: State-of-the-art operations are now being transferred to the field of knowledge of our Ministry of Emergency Situations, and a system of work with Germany has been developed there. That's what they're called. Expert technical centres. It's time to privatize them so that they can work better on accounting motives and better fill our budget twice: for privatization and for the second time when we get constant income.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u41	I think this is a specific case, and I'm going to have to look into it. And first of all, I want to say, and in my report I said, we need to change the system of approach to privatization. And those bills that we put into the session hall, unfortunately, we've had a lot of privatization under the rules of small privatization, which is that large objects were privatized in the way and in terms, as I call it, kiosks, shops and so forth. It is therefore necessary to change this system, and it is not possible to set one standard for one object or another. It must be the only legal basis and the only rules. As for the privatization of the object you are talking about. That analysis that I did when I came to the Fund, I found that in order to transfer from one ministry to another, it required a Cabinet decree. On the other hand, to privatize an object, to visit an official in Kabmin, he passed a resolution, and went straight to the Fund, privatized. And if you look at the 1992 Cabinet of Ministers decree, which states that the Cabinet of Ministers is the authority that governs the public property, it should be the Cabinet of Ministers, not the visa, not the resolution, but the Cabinet of Ministers’s decision. And that's why I insist that the bill that we brought here be foreshadowed. Where's the budget? Please confirm the list of objects that are being privatized and see who is behind it and how we will control it, how privatization is coming. Let's take a decision from the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides for both the privatization mechanism and not to say what the official wrote and sold -- and that's it. So we also need to change the system that I was talking about in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u42	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u43	The Committee on Social Policy and Work: "What steps does the government take to inform the public about the state and efficiency of government ownership?" So what I'm saying is that the State Property Fund, it's created by the State Property Fund, where we predict it, and there's a special division of corporate governance on the site, chapter three, analytics. On this site, the information goes on and on, and we're posting this information, we're printing it in Privatization magazine and in the government courier newspaper. In addition, you can see that we are now posting information about privatization on the First National Channel on Saturday, we're reporting for literally 20 minutes on the work that is being done today at the State Property Fund, through the media, through the time that today is possible for the exit of the State Property Fund and corporate governance. In addition, as I have already said here, in answer to a previous colleague’s question, public hearings are held, a public council set up under the head of the State Property Fund. We are now carrying out a number of such measures, which will enable us to inform more about the pretentious work being done by the State Property Fund in the area of non-investment. We are now doing this work more widely, and every time we submit documents to the court, we immediately mix information on the State Property Fund website, and after the court decisions have been concluded, we also place it on the State Property Fund site so that people can see how the Foundation works today on pretentious work and the return of objects to state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u44	Please, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u45	Dear Valentina Petrovna! I have three little questions. One of them is actually already partly the answer you've given, but there's a lot of speculation about what you see, you've made a return to the state property of the Creatures in order to sell it again, and they're saying that you've seen the decision and so on. But you were just giving an answer to that question. If. Repeat it so that people can remember. The second question. Is that law that you're now proposing finally regulating the management of state-owned property in those enterprises that belong to, today, are assigned to the jurisdiction of State administration, because I fully agree with you that there can't be a few owners in state property. There has to be one host, and the management has to do it with help. With the hands of the State Property Fund. And the third. Please tell me you still have unapproved deputies, as far as I know. How can this be explained? You're actually the one fighting for order now, when a whole group of people should do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u46	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. In 2004, when it came to the question of the privatisation of the Chrystals, I was one of those MPs who wasn't afraid of being brought to justice at a time when it wasn't very easy and it wasn't very dangerous. Today, the object is returned to state property. Congregations are being held and some of the dividends are already budgeted for the state’s share that is now in the State Property Fund’s operational office. The decision to privatize "Cruvoristali" was taken by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. I didn't see a decision to privatize Creebristali, I was in the hospital, and I'm saying once again, my principle position remains that the Creebristali facility should be in the hands of the state, because it's one of the enterprises that has a completely closed business cycle. There is also another matter to consider. Each year, this combination provides revenue of 2 billion dollars. And if we're talking about privatization, the totality of this object could be in three or four years. So I believe that such an object should be in the hands of the State. But the decision is made, the political decision is made, and it needs to be implemented. With regard to the Act on the Management of Public Property Objects and Public Administration. In June last year, the Constitutional Court reviewed the constitutional submission of 60 deputies to the State Administration. So far no decision has been made, and such an institution as the State Administration, which was created by President Kuchma's decrees, is still in operation. Orders are not cancelled. So this institution, the Government's administration of affairs, is today, and it's acting on old orders. By this Act "On the Management of State Property Objects" we impose all laws on the administration of held property. I hope that the law will be passed and signed by the President and placed a dot on all the negatives we had about the Duce. And about the intercessors. You know, when you're court-martialed to sell objects that are desirable to individuals, that's the main reason for the delay today in Presidential decrees regarding my deputies. Indeed, I have to work until the third hour of the night, until the fourth hour of the night, until now, the President's decrees on the appointment of my deputies are not signed. You can see the benefits of driving a deputy or a head of the Semenyuk Foundation, and then saying you couldn't do it. It's easier to work when someone's pointing their finger. Unfortunately, today I can say that I do. Indeed, substitutes are not appointed. And even here, there's no one to help me in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u47	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u48	What is the state of the social and cultural spheres after privatization and during the exploitation of the objects of which they are: sports complexes, sanatoriums, prevention camps, children's health camps? I want to say that you and I have done a fine job in this room when you held parliamentary hearings about the preservation of social sites. And thanks to this determination, we now conduct inventory and preserve many social objects. And even during the inventory, we've learned a lot about these issues when social objects remain on the balance sheet of privatized enterprises, that is, they remain in the hands of the state. The enterprise is privatized, can use it, but it cannot sell and mortgage and implement such an object. So thanks to this determination. We've accepted and conducted such an inventory. Today, such a register has already been created in the State Property Fund. Sadly, though, when we began to conduct inventory, it became apparent that privatized enterprises had begun to raise their principal debt and had begun to calculate their balance sheet. I mean, the dormitories, the sanatoriums, the boarding houses, they started selling and counting as state property with the state. So we started a multi-pretentious work so that such objects could be returned to serve people so that they could be transferred either to municipal property or to the operational administration of the respective territorial communities so that such objects could work. My point is that the information on such objects is in the folders we have distributed. In addition, I want to say that 515 innkeepers were returned to state property, then transferred to municipal property, and given the right to those workers who had worked for a long time in enterprises, but were unable to obtain adequate housing, and were able to privatize these facilities. Yes. Unfortunately, this observation of the fact is very difficult, but I want to say that many of the hostels have been resold several times and even with people, and the people who lived in these hostels didn't know about this kind of work. So now that we're doing inventory, we're going to go back and leave it in the hands of the state so that the social sphere that's built for people, so that people can go to rest, heal, be preserved for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u49	Please, Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u50	Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian National Party Dear Valentino Petrovno, in your words, the technology of alienation of state property is very primitive. And this alienation, as we know, has led to the failure to tolerate the economy and the level of our social and all other levels, and vice versa, to the degradation of many areas that are in danger. What can the Supreme Council and we do with you to make this technology of return as simple as we can make it to the courts, or in some other way to simplify this procedure of return? What do I ask, because it's a very challenging question, judging from the process of returning the Crimsons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u51	Thank you. You know, there's one way in the holding fund today: failure to meet investment commitments. But it is only for strategic purposes. Yes, where there is a lack of investment, we turn to the court and return the object to state ownership. If there have been violations of privatization, this is an appeal to a court of law. And on this side is the Attorney General's Office, or directly the State Property Fund, and through the court we're returning to state property. This is also true of privatization sites that have been through certificates through compensatory, privatization certificates. Sadly, this cannot be done. I also want to say, often investment commitments, deadlines are over, you can no longer do pretentious work. So energy, even monopolistic objects, strategic targets are transferred to the private sector, and we're walking with an extended hand -- cut the tariff on gasoline, cut the tariff on electricity, because, you see, we're asking you, as it were, owners. There is a mechanism today: the adoption of a law in the sessional reprivatization chamber. Sadly, though, there is no support for this law in the session room, that is, a decision that has not been made politically. They're probably not ready for this yet, both for society and for the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u52	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u53	"What is the state of use and operation of hostels and small-family houses belonging to privatized enterprises and compliance with legislation on this issue?" I've already said that often these hostels were on balance sheets, they were accounted for as debts in those enterprises that were already privatized -- whether it's Watts or closed stock companies. And I think that today's work at the State Property Fund, and I'm very pleased that the Attorney General's Office is helping us in this regard, that we're trying to get back to state property and where there's a possibility that, according to the law on transfer from state property to utility, we're transferring these groups to the community and there in accordance with the decision of the territorial community, in accordance with article 43 of the Law on Local Self-Government, the territorial community decides to privatize these hostels to those who work on them, but this procedure is already clearly out of our hands, and that's why we're doing this right now. In addition, we have now done a detailed analysis of how many hostels we have left on balance sheets and how much more to pass on. Today we have 52 grand. 275 dwellings and hostels are on the balance sheet. Of these, we've already been able to transfer to the sphere of the commune area of 21,000 18. This is the work that has already been done and is a gradual process. The problem today is that the cost of maintaining social facilities in the operational administration of district, district, city councils, rural councils is not enough to sustain this area. So when we adopt the Budget Act, we're going to need it, and we're going to come to you with a proposal that the funds for the transfer of social objects and the maintenance of the social sphere in the district, district councils be allocated from the budget. And so that those who live in these hostels and small families can privatize the facilities, even though the rooms and those small, family - owned apartments are available to make use of their right to privatize their homes. And I think the right draft of the law that we passed, you'll support us in the session room. Thank you. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u54	Please, Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u55	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Valentina Petrovna, Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Zaporez. I have repeatedly asked you the question of the problem. It's in the city of Primorsk, Zaporozhye district, a resting base for Albatross. And thanks to you, at the last reception, you promised that order would be given. The situation is the following. Today, the company that used to belong to this base of rest begins to quietly choose, not without the help of the Maintenance Fund, but without the help of the State Reserve, which would help, say, win a metal unlocking tender there. The basis for recreation, commercial structures in their time, were adopted and brought to nothing. Today, this guide invests money and begins to restore the work of this base. But thanks to the paws of information that came out of the holding fund or the Zaporozhye region, this base is going to take over another commercial structure today. So where is the effectiveness of the Fund's work on this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u56	Thank you. What I'm saying is that after you spoke to me, we set up a special commission that took place. And they have not yet completed their work, because, in fact, the sale of this base took place in violation of the legislation in part of the fact that the object was on the balance of the enterprise and calculated by the tax mortgage as a social object. A commission will finish its work, we will start a pretentious job, and we will return this object to state property and inform you accordingly. The object can be used by any commercial structure, but it can be effectively managed and served by the people and under the control of the State. This is also the case with the Act on the Management of State Property Objects, which I hope you will vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u57	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u58	Catchure, 117th: "One of the mechanisms of shadow privatization is the transfer to statutory funds. the property of state-owned enterprises with a further dissipation of the government's share through the issue. Did the fund stop this mechanism?" I mean, I said in my report that the biggest problem is that we have a few privatization centers today and one of the centers is an additional issue. We have privatization today through the State Property Fund only 30-40 percent. Everything else goes beyond privatization legislation. In this way, through bankruptcy, through executive service, through a specialty, through a tax mortgage, through an additional issue, and through the acquisition of mortgage loans, and then there are no suitable objects. At present, after the objects where we saw that an additional release of shares had begun, or so on. An additional issue without taking into account the State's interests, we signed with the Securities Commission a corresponding agreement, where we foresee joint actions to prevent such decisions. The Act on Amendments to the Law on Privatization of State Property, which we filed in the Hall, eliminates this negative. I think I'm going to come to the session room to report this law, and you're going to be convinced once again that by putting such documents into the hall, we want to confirm once again that this kind of privatization through an additional issue should not go through. If in those enterprises where additional emissions are needed, it is necessary to provide for an additional amount of funds in the Budget Act so that such additional emissions are redeemed and that part of the government’s share is not reduced, for example, where the circulation costs are to be filled. And that's what we're going to do. I also want to say that, in many of the decisions we made on the extra show, we started a pretentious job and appealed to the court to avoid such questions. And that's where the State Securities Commission helps us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u59	Basil Gabrieluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u60	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Valentina Petrovna, I know your principles that you've worked with in the faction of the Socialist Party. We have never contacted the Public Prosecutor's Office, the various return authorities or the requirement to regulate the privatization of the Kremenchug NHRI. Do you remember how there was a de facto seizure of State property through various schemes of such a serious, strategically important facility for our country and the State, and what processes are taking place in the oil market? Unfortunately, I do not see the same active action today. I would like to ask you: how will you act in the near future, what your position, has it not changed and when will the State receive the strategic facility of the Cremenchug refinery? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u61	Thank you, Basilovich. You said, "We worked," as if I were dead. Believe me, I'm going to live a long time, and I'm going to work with you, and I'm going to work with you, and I'm going to set things straight in the state, too. Two: in the case of the Cremenchuck Oil Factory and, by the way, the law that we passed with you in this session hall, 318 votes, on halting the privatization of the oil industry and transferring it to statutory funds. This is a law that allowed us not to take over through bank loans, because of the additional issuance of shares of these remnants of enterprises, we still have a share of the state, that's 43 percent of the Cremencucci oil refinery, 25 percent of the NPP Galicina, and in part we still have in Skratnaft. So I want to tell you, according to the President's decree, yet Leonid Kuchma, a decree has been issued that has provided for the transfer of 43 percent of the shares of the NPZ "Galicina" 25 percent and 43 percent of the Kremencucci oil refinery to the NAC "Naftogazu". And today, the State Property Fund doesn't run these shares. The decision of the Constitutional Court that dealt with this issue has not been announced until now because there is not enough vote in the Constitutional Court. I think the NAC Naftogaz is currently in charge of this property. Regrettably, this function was taken away from the State Property Fund. We don't run these businesses. But my basic position is left alone, if we put all the oil in the hands of some of the other state's representatives, that's the result today. And what we've saved here with you is this opportunity to work with these businesses today, so let's adopt the Law on Reprivatization and get back to what we're saying. We vote and we work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u62	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u63	"Your report was criticized by NAC Naftogaz of Ukraine. Do you know? What in six months has NAC counted more payments than in all past years?" I want to say that when I called it bankruptcy, it's been since 2001, so I called it a total, because since the time of the corresponding transmission. So what I'm saying is that even those recalculations and dividends, and the cost is positive, but in five months, and the result is not going to be fast. Same as in the foundation, same as in the NAC Naftogaz. In principle, you and I need to get together as we continue to manage the holding company. In fact, Kabmin's functions are now performed by every relevant holding company, and it is not possible to influence their powers because their property is transferred to their rights of disposal. And so by adopting the Act on the Management of State Property Objects, we have to set up with you: we have executive authority, it will be strong, or it will be once again cleared of all functions in other holdings, in other equity societies, and so on. That's why you and I are in this room to decide. And I think that's going to be efficiency. Because there can be no such confusion in the administration of public property, including in holding companies. Legal status is not defined today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u64	Please, Paul Kachure. I don't see him. Then Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u65	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. I want to start asking questions about the public, our voters, that there is no Prime Minister in the cabinet today, and there is no Minister of Economics. Perhaps the question of the situation in our country today, which is postprivatization with the people, is of little concern, better to deal with the problems of WTO, to give up the whole of Ukraine and the people in the end. As for Valentino Petrovna, I'd like to ask you. Isn't that why they probably don't listen to you, and the President doesn't sign proper orders because they know about your compatibility today? And specifically, I'd like to ask you to answer that right now. As you think, it is time to deal with the privatized oil factories. They have become monopolies today, and they have practically abused people by setting up suitable products and so forth? And we now know that in the village there has been a little bit more of a signature of environmental decrees than the President, because I know the principle of the President's position and the support he has for today's State Property Fund acting exclusively under the Law, and we have support, and I personally have good support for the President in this regard. As far as milk factories are concerned, I want to say that these enterprises were mostly privatized under the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers in 1992-93. the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Kuchma. And basically these objects are, in fact, monopolies, they were privatized at the time in accordance with the Kabmin decree on the characteristics of privatization in the agro-industrial complex. Unfortunately, they were privatized today through vouchers. The resell took place on the secondary market of securities and representatives of the State Property Fund, and we cannot influence those who went through the secondary market of securities today. This is the fate of each shareholder. In addition, another point to be considered is that while holding the hands of the leaders at that time, farm managers often gave up on the share of the shares belonging to the collective enterprises. And at present all businesses, milk factories are in the hands of monopolists, the regulatory mechanism can be one - anti-monopoly legislation and the other - a reprivatization mechanism. Unfortunately, this mechanism is not legally defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u66	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u67	How many holding companies and what share did they have in total have a consolidated net profit in 2004-2002? And what is the amount of dividends they pay to the government budget over the years? What is the ratio of the dividend payment to the total cost of the major assets at the residual cost of the holding companies? According to the results of the 2003 work, the net profit of 21 holding companies is 1 billion 312 million dollars. Of these, 2 billion dividends were listed for the state share in 2004, sorry, 2 billion 62, sorry, 2 million 62,000 dollars. You can see this data, we've given a comparative analysis of the tables, which provides for each holding company a net profit and a recalculation to the corresponding dividends that were in 2003-2004, and how these holding companies are now operating and analyzing completely in the first quarter of 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u68	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna, sit down, please. First Deputy Minister of Economy Sergey Andrievich Romanyuk is invited to attend. Please have 10 minutes and 45 answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. More than a decade’s practice in shaping the state’s corporate sector shows that it has not yet become a tool for expanding market management and investment. Over the last years 2000-2004, the amount of dividends in government stocks was only 735 million dollars. This is less than one percent per year per capital and is the result of the lack of proper corporate governance of the state. Since Valentina Petrovna has detailed the problem of the corporate sector in her report, let me focus your attention on some of the problems of national corporate governance. The number of shares owned by the State today is inadequate for its organizational, human and financial capacity to influence the performance of enterprises, to make the most important decisions on business and development, to participate fully in investment processes. Especially burdensome are small packages that have not been found by the buyer in the privatization process. Management, which is nearly 40 percent of the total, distracts much of the management effort by minimal result. The government's income from such a package is low. And so today, in preparing a privatization project that's being developed, one way to solve this problem is to implement these small packages. The next problem is a constant change since the year 98, the corporate rights management system. In fact, there have been three major changes. Each change was accompanied by a massive transfer of authority from one authority to another and, as a result, prolonged periods of actual absence of management. Today, most of the government's packets, which is 92 percent, are in the management of the holding fund. Such a situation is not justified because it does not take into account the specificities of governance in various fields and areas of activity. The effective impact on decision-making is based on well - known manufacturing technologies, financial, investment, and human resources. In addition, in the merger of the Authority's Powers Fund, which is responsible for the effective results of privatization and for increasing revenues from the management of packages that remain in state ownership, some conflicts of interest have already been established. Therefore, a certain redistribution of administration to the central executive authorities is considered appropriate while increasing their responsibility for the results of such management. The next is an existing management practice. In general, it is limited to the presence of representatives of the State at annual general meetings. Business activity between congregations takes place without State influence. There is an urgent problem with the establishment of an institution of specially authorized representatives in a state that, on a permanent basis, would influence the activities of enterprises and be responsible for their actions within the framework of those corporate rights that they are delegated to them. The issue of government ownership, and corporate rights of the state, are not sufficiently addressed. So far, there is no single law that deals with general governance issues and creates a complex legal basis for its implementation. A significant number of legal acts of different legal forces are regulated by individual governance issues. In doing so, legal standards often do not complement but contradict each other but contradict each other. This has particularly affected government, stockholders, and holding companies. Valentina Petrovna had stopped at them in enough detail. Unlike private and even state enterprises, the legal status and management principle are not defined by the relevant legislative acts. These companies do not have a unified legal property status. This makes it impossible to establish a clear and transparent mechanism to control their activities by the founder. The most acute problem exists in companies, founders, and shareholders whose long - term office was the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The only authority that governs these companies on the part of the state is the monitoring boards. Experience has shown that they worked formally without interfering or considering the most important issues of holding. A large part of the observation boards at the beginning of this year were not legitimate because of significant staffing and administrative changes. This was particularly true of NAC Naftogaz, DAC Blood Polygraph, NAC Ukragroling DAC "The Bread of Ukraine" and so on. These and other conclusions were based on the preparation and decision-making of measures already being taken and to be used in the near future on the basis of prepared and adopted normative documents. Since the first months of work, the new government has been tasked with creating a software document that would expand and specify the position of the Government's Action Programme regarding the use of state property. This document was adopted in June of the People's Property Program. The main features of the programme are to improve the management system and to ensure the efficient use of state property that covers the news spectrum of existing problems. This involves optimizing the extent of public sector infrastructure, setting up a clear calculation of public property, effective legal provision of governance issues, implementing competitive management methods, and improving the system of distribution of authority. The status of this program is already being implemented. One of the mechanisms envisaged by the program is the identification of qualified persons to be appointed directors of companies by competitive selection. That is the competitive selection initiated by the government this year. It's designed to determine the leaders of large monopolistic enterprises, the government commission is competitive, for others. the identification of other directors of competition committees of ministries. A new standard form of contract has been developed with the head of the public sector company, which should also help to increase the level of management of these companies. The financial plans of major state companies have never been the subject of attention from previous governments. This year, the financial plans of seven companies, such as DAC “Ukraine’s Bread”, Ukraine’s “Ukraine’s” and Naftogaz Ukraine, Skretelek and others for this year were approved by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers after careful consideration or even several stages of this consideration. The financial plans of state companies are now controlled by the state. Their performance is mandatory, and dividends from activities should come according to established schedules, as well as income tax. Equally important is the introduction of investment plans for enterprises. A typical investment business plan that is almost completed will help produce the only approaches to making. The focus of government attention and the problems of joint ventures, on monitoring their activities. Since February 2005, a requirement has been laid down for the establishment of state - owned property rights based societies with respect to the size of the state share of at least 50 percent of the statutory fund. In order not to allow bankruptcy mechanisms and covert privatization, fictitious bankruptcy, the government has prepared an appropriate bill to improve bankruptcy. Finally, the Supreme Council has a bill on the administration of public property, and its preparation for second reading takes into account proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers. A special working group has been set up to cooperate with the Supreme Council. There is hope that the joint efforts of the Supreme Council and the government will eventually result in a law that will improve governance of government. The measures taken by the government to improve the efficiency of the use of state ownership, which is already in the statutory funds of agricultural societies, have some results, and Valentina Petrovna spoke about them. And there is confidence that further steps by the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the Supreme Council, to set up order in the administration of state corporate rights, will produce the expected results that society expects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u70	Thank you, Sergey Andryovich. Please sign up for the question. 45 minutes. Is there no writing? Yeah? We will answer only the questions of the people’s oral deputies because there are no written ones. On the board, please. Eugene Gorenik. Get ready for Alexander's Ally.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u71	Eugene Gornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Dear Sergey Andriyovich, here in the materials that were prepared for Government Day, is such a phrase that an existing old privatization system does not allow for the sale of small and insolvent stock packages. And that's what the legislative base that exists at this time is blamed. Well, that's the question: what changes are still needed in the legislative base, or maybe by the very process of this implementation, so that these little stocks, if they're not effective for the state, could be implemented? And the second. What do you do with these packets of state-owned shares when they've simply stopped being state-owned as a result of the issue, and there's a clear violation of legislation? How does the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Property Fund, plan to return these packets to the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u72	Thank you. Well, as far as small stocks are concerned, that's the result of the privatization that's already taken place, and the problem is that they're not actually interested in investor buyers because they don't influence the state to run these businesses. So privatization programs are now developing instruments that will allow these packets to be dumped into the stock market and thus sell them even. Shareholders, that is, to be sprayed among small shareholders. With regard to violations related to the dispersal of public stock packages, this issue, among other things, is the subject of consideration by a working group created by the Cabinet of Ministers, with the participation of the Attorney General’s Office, which deals with issues of privatization. And according to the decisions of this working group, certain actions are taken to restore the state's control over a particular enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u73	Alla Alexandrovska. Get ready for Cyril Polishku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u74	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I have the next question for you. As should be seen today for those enterprises that are not included in the list of facilities at the time. The return, while on the list of sites not to be privatized, was privatized by presidential decrees. I want to say, for example, about the Hartron AO company that I worked on for many years. It is also possible to refer to the Turboat equity society as Harkovsky. The Prime Minister recently stated that she would consider not privatizing with Turboat. I understand that the Prime Minister is probably not competent because Turboat is already a shareholder society and already 25 per cent of the shares are distributed to the employees of the company. That's the first question. What to do with those enterprises that have been invested are privatized by the President's decrees? And the second. Don't you think you should look at the social issue? We are talking about privatization of enterprises, and what is happening to the social sphere of these enterprises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u75	Thank you. The first question is extremely important, because according to legislation, you know, we have 2 lists of enterprises. The first list is companies that are not privatized. A second list of enterprises that are not privatized but can be corporate. In fact, corporate itself is a tool to make the enterprise adaptable to market conditions. There's more authority to run this corporate enterprise. And unfortunately, today this system doesn't exactly justify itself, and the more there are the facts that you've been talking about privatizing stocks of companies that aren't privatized. By the way, both of us, and in that package, we have stock companies that are not allowed to privatize. There's only one way out. According to the legislation, if the privatisation was done with the violation of it, bring back those stocks through the courts. With regard to the social sphere, legislation is in place today that stipulates that 50 percent of the provision of capital repairs, the restoration of these facilities should be from the undertakings they transfer, and the rest should be provided by local authorities. In view of the fact that this transfer has been extremely massive in recent years, and the possibilities of local budgets are seriously limited in terms of maintenance, there is only one way out, and it must be found. This is about increasing the capacity of local self - government authorities, financial opportunities primarily to support this social sphere. You know that housing and utilities today are kept from those revenues to local budgets that are not included in inter-budget transfers, but this is a small amount in terms of the local general budget fund, which is between 3 and 6 percent and, of course, this size of the funds is absolutely not going to serve as the base for all social objects. This is especially true in terms of water, heat, sanitation, capital repair, and current. So it's about expanding the base, the financial base of local self-government. This is, yes, yes, we're preparing these for introduction to the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u76	Kirilo Polishchuk, followed by Rabbit Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u77	Kirilo Polishchuk, the Christian Democratic Party of Ukraine. First of all, I want to thank Semenyuk Valentina Petrovni for the thorough report, and I want to give the word to my colleague Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u78	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u79	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine". You know, when he took his post as Minister Teryochin, he said he didn't understand what your Ministry employees were doing, what they were supposed to do there at all. I'm telling you one good thing, pass it on to him. What are you doing? Does the Ministry monitor the socio-economic consequences of privatized enterprises and the privatization process at all, once? And what are the parameters of this monitoring if you're doing it at all? The second question is "Criminals." I understand that the position of the Ministry of Economics is the same as that of the Ukrainian people. If the enterprise is taken from the owner and taken for the benefit of the State, it must remain there. Because if we sell, we'll suspect someone's doing someone's bidding. What is your position on the future of Chrystals?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u80	Well, with regard to the first question, Valentina Petrovna has already answered that the Property Fund is quarterly monitoring the economic situation itself on, in companies managing the shares that are located in the Property Fund. As far as the Ministry of Economics is concerned, we also do quarterly monitoring of the financial situation of state-owned enterprises. Since they are located in the administration of various central executive bodies, the procedure is: a request is made to the central executive authorities, they provide information, and the Ministry of Economics is carrying out this analysis, which is then submitted to the government. And at a government meeting, this analysis is being considered. As for the "Criminals," I can answer one thing: the government's decision on this issue is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u81	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, prepare Mikola Petrovich Noshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u82	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Office of Ministers of Ukraine is responsible for the administration of state property. Yet, many state-owned holding companies have been created by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, which essentially delegate the right to dispose of their property. It's one of the channels of plundering state property. Is it not time to make changes to these decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers so that the holdings do not manage the property but simply use it? And the second question. Do you not think that ownership should regulate prices as well? Today, you know that prices are rising, no one is dealing with this. Especially for agriculture today either buying milk or buying grain prices is unknown how it works. Do you not think that ownership requires price management because of your shares, shares in these enterprises?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u83	Thank you. Regarding the activities of national stockholders that are created by government decisions. Yes, when considering the financial plans of these shareholders, the government concluded that their activities were completely ineffective. And that is why steps are now being taken to improve the quality and management of these companies and to strengthen the quality of their activities. And in addition, it is now being prepared and adopted in the first reading of the Law on State Property Management, which regulates these issues and puts them under more strict control by the State. To some extent, they are needed because this is a cluster model for the organization of the production of entities operating in a particular economic sphere. With regard to the impact on price policy by ownership. You see, this tool is extremely complicated. First of all, we have antitrust legislation, and everyone has to work in market conditions, and the main task of the state is to create competitive conditions for everyone. And the price goes up exclusively because either the market is monopolized. And so let's say that in terms of sugar, there's a clear balance here that says what sugar is in the state, but it's focused on a couple of options that, using the situation, are now just increasing prices. The situation was exactly the same in 2003. We've analyzed it. And that is to say that when the government, more loyally by the Supreme Council, made a decision in May 2003 on the import of sugar-cheese quotas, the price even under the condition that this sugar-cheese was processed somewhere in September, because the Cabinet was adopted in September to implement these quotas, the price from May of the month went down. So it worked out that those who owned sugar realized that they could stay with them. So the situation today is, in my opinion, caused by the kind of monopoly of sugar that exists today, there is in Ukraine. Hence, there is certainly some influence on the owner’s pricing and price formation in the market. However, this cannot be a dominant key factor, and such a tool should balance and make a competitive environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u84	Mikola Nightshenko. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u85	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Sumska District. Dear reporter. The property of large businesses is of interest to the inhabitants of large cities. My voters in 160 counties, these are the northern districts of the Suma region, interested in the assets of the Silgoschemistry, the agricultural industry, the businesses of trade, living, the property of trade, the cooperatives that are all created by the work of the Ukrainian people. That's not what the reporters are talking about. And the question I have is, have you and Mineconomy considered a further share of enterprises that are privatized, that have no parts of the state, but the owners, three times already changed, do not fulfil the conditions of privatization? This is job creation, this is budget income, this is social infrastructure. I have these businesses in my district of six, and with their empty windows they show the wrong attitude of the government toward government property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. Well, when it comes to formations like reagrochems, ratisilgotechnics, they were privatized under a scheme of small and medium-sized privatizations by the year 200, and they've been handed over several times to new owners. With regard to the implementation of investment commitments, no investment commitments were made in privatizing such objects. This was primarily about large businesses. And the Property Fund or the State may ask for investment commitments only under the terms of the contracts in which the object was implemented. If there is no such agreement, there is no, as appropriate, requirement of the State for these objects. Although you are absolutely right: many privatized objects have extremely serious problems with working conditions, providing legislation on KZOT. That is why this issue should be addressed within the framework of laws that are regulated by these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u87	Vladimir Yavorowski, prepare Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u88	Yavorov, Zovkla, Viktor Yushchenka’s block, Vladimir Yavorowski Dear reporter, Valence, when he took the presidency, he threw out a beautiful slogan: "Let's share our poverty equally!" I have the impression that there might be a different password in Ukraine today, saying to the ex-president and his environment, "Let's share your wealth equally, if I don't compare it, at least in part. Today, we have heard what a rich people we are. Today, Valentina Seminouk has named the figure that has been privatized in Ukraine for 600 billion, I repeat: 600 billion! How rich we are! But the budget just went down to 40. I belong to those who oppose that word, the notion of reprivatization. That state will lose a lot if it goes for it. But what do you think you're going to do, after all, as a major deputy minister, that we're going to leave it the way it is, or that we're going to be able to get something out of this 600 billion?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. In my view, the key problem for such privatized enterprises is absolute closure and lack of access to their activities. In the West, these companies are called public stock companies. However, the publicity of our stockholder associations is not to be talked about. Not all of them carry out the legislative task of publishing reports on the work of the stockholder associations in accordance with the law. And so the main task is to put under social control the activities of any economic entity in order to ensure that it does not harm society in the pursuit of its own interests. This is prescribed in the laws of different countries. There is strict control of the various structures behind the activities of such societies, on the one hand. On the other hand, when an enterprise works legitimately when it tries to attract as much investment as possible for development, it opens up to society. And you know the loud scandals that have recently been with big stock companies in both Italy and the United States. They were just saying that in society, conditions were created so that society could control the very process of these companies. That is what we lack in terms of legislation. And as far as business culture is concerned, it's also what you're talking about, it's also the result of a low culture of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u90	Anatoly Orzhachowski. Prepare Sergey Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u91	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Your Honor, the previous reporter called the killer number: 56 billion dollars is the amount that was stolen through privatization of the state and the Ukrainian people. Most knownly, the village has been affected by the privatization of oil factories, the destruction of collective and state-owned agricultural enterprises, the repair and transportation teams, and today there is an attack on the common property of the territorial communities. I have a question for you as a representative of the Ministry of Economics. Why is the Ministry of Economics concerned today only about the development of the private sector in the village, rather than thinking about introducing state-owned and state-owned complexes in the village? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. Well, as far as I can remember, the country was, well, not much. There was a cooperative property that was the basis of agricultural production. And the colleges -- it wasn't state property either, it was collective property. As far as rural development is concerned, the government is now completing the Ukrainian village development programme, which envisions serious investment in rural areas, serious investment programs that will allow for the introduction of the typical investment projects that exist today in the world. So let's say there's an agreement already with Danish firms that will implement typical pig-growing projects in all regions of Ukraine. Extremely serious steps are being taken to improve the social infrastructure of the village. This is also included in the program. It is planned for a long-term period of involvement of all central executive bodies, and last week the Prime Minister of Ukraine held a special meeting dedicated to the presentation of the programme. It's already ending and I think she'll be a serious push before. for the socio-economic development of rural areas and, above all, for the improvement of the demographic situation in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u93	Sergei Matvienkov. Prepare Drachewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u94	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Honorable Rapporteur! Please tell me that there is a list of enterprises that are not to be privatized, which is what you should be guided. I would like to clarify, however, what principle we are losing on this list from year to year, as in Ukradprom. Before the law was passed, we lost half our enterprises. They were somehow, so to speak, stocked. Ship repair plants. The same Mariupol Ship Repair Plant. How it turned out today, let us put it this way, even came out of the register of individuals who are now in the register. Elevators. Today, we do not have any electorate that belongs to the State to which the State would lead these electorates. The first position is the Ministry's attitude on this issue. Second moment. Say, please, your views and understanding how the Ministry manages such a public sector as coal? How do you plan to carry out economic governance of this industry, organizational guidance? What are the prospects for this industry? What is planned by the State to create normal conditions in this direction today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u95	Well, with regard to the first question, with regard to the Ministry. Both lists of enterprises that are not subject to privatization have been approved by the Supreme Council and are formed or withdrawn or added solely by decision. Control of this list is really not enough, let's say, that allows it to be done. Well, there was a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy and it was fair to comment to the central executive bodies that the arguments for the withdrawal or inclusion of the list did not support any criticism. Today, we are changing the system of introduction and conclusion, and we are proposing that these enterprises should be inventoryd in order to bring about order, since there have been cases of irregular privatization, and in fact they have already been privatized. Let's just say there's a Ukríchprom that can't be privatized at all, it's already. I fully support you in this regard. With regard to the coal industry, the Ministry of the Economy is involved in regulating the development of the sector exclusively on the basis of its own authority. To this end, the Ministry is preparing a presidential decree to improve the coal sector. The Ministry is therefore doing so within its remit with regard to social and economic development, with regard to regional policies, with regard to public targeted programmes, the analysis of the effectiveness of their implementation, the work with depressed territories and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u96	Victor Drachewski. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u97	Victor Drachevsky, 35 constituency. Please say, in Ukraine today, very much privatized enterprises and those owned by the State. The impact of the Ministry of the Economy on both businesses and others. It can now really cooperate with privatized enterprises to increase the country's economic power every year, or you will say today that it cannot. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u98	The primary function of the Ministry of Economics is to create equal conditions for privatized, state-owned enterprises. And regardless of the form of ownership, enterprises must have the same rules of conduct on the market. This is the main problem and the main task, the primary function of the Ministry. Therefore, all the instruments owned by the Ministry of the Economy are aimed at fulfilling this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u99	Yuri Karmazin, Vladimir Leschenko behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, I have two small questions. Ukraine’s Act on the 2005 State Budget has set out the task of receiving dividends to the 2005 State Budget in the amount of 533, 2 million dollars. The annual 5-month target has already been completed by 131%. Why is this, this low level of planning and this small amount planned? That's the first question. The second question. From the property belonging to the Black Sea Sailing, 118 vessels, living vessels, living vessels -- I emphasize what would be the State's contribution to the state's revenue budget. None of this was planned, well, perhaps because secret orders were passed on there. Why the Ministry of Economics doesn't want to look at it and draw it anyway, so that these amounts work on the state budget, not just on the government budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, in terms of dividends, you know, dividends are paid on the basis of the financial year's work. And the dividend distribution is a function of shareholders' congregations. Therefore, the government could not foresee and planned without a detailed analysis of what had been done in 2004. But now the figure has changed, and today we're counting on this figure to increase by the end of the year. And this was revealed in the analysis by the Ministry of Finance of all financial plans of enterprises. Today, the Ministry of Finance has taken on, well, titaniumic work, it is currently working on the financial plans of all state-owned enterprises, including corporations. And for today's plan, for today, I know that there are already more than 200 of these businesses in work. Key shareholders, they were analyzed at a government meeting. And the whole government has been looking at each national company's financial plan separately at its meeting. And as a result, it was planned by the end of the year, and we know that by the end of the year, it's going to be much bigger. And it's already started and it's going to be done every year, starting this year. Sadly, this year no such attention was paid. As far as the Black Sea fleet is concerned, it is the competence of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Therefore, by virtue of our authority, we do not have an attitude toward this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u102	Vladimir Leschchenko. To prepare Paul Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u103	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear reporter, from the statements of both government representatives, I have come to realize that the state has dropped the issue on its own. There is no management of corporate rights, which is what you said in your report. The most important thing for all the governments that were today is to sell out everything that has been created for decades by the Soviet people. You said there was no legislative basis. This is an attempt to transfer responsibility to the Supreme Council. But the government has all the important influence on the solution to the issue. And so are yours. Go to Belarus and learn how to manage corporate rights. Why did they not previously create a legislative field? Who Is Opposing? What, though, prevents the government from managing corporate rights right now? Is there no wish or what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u104	To this day there is a desire. And Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, and I tried to show that today, at least this year, the situation is changing in a qualitative way. What I'm talking about is that there's been financial supervision of the financial planning of state companies. I'm talking about what's going on today in preparation for the contract procedure. I'm talking about a competitive appointment. I'm talking about changing the form of the contract today, improving, in order to increase the responsibility of those managers who work and manage de facto government property and benefit from it, because it was paradoxical, when a government company that has extremely large turnover actually makes less than one percent, there's even less -- half percent, there are such companies. So this system was a corrupt system, it was destroyed. And today the government is making arrangements for it. This applies to all the DAKs, all the NAKs. At the meeting of the working group, questions about the DAC "Ukraine's Bread" have also been discussed recently, literally in the past week. So the government is looking at every stockholder company that was set up to make it transparent, controlled and efficient in terms of budget revenue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u105	Paul Kachure. Prepare Alexander Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u106	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Sergey Andryovich, you can see how many issues relate to the effectiveness of corporate rights. I'm also in this part. You were talking about what a financial analysis was made. But the key problem remains the holding of competitions for the management of these enterprises. There was a great deal of promise. And yet, to this day, we speak only in the future. So I have a question: can you please tell me when the competition for positions in state-owned enterprises really starts? When will the press announcement be, and when will people be able to actually submit their nominations? And the second. You know, one of the mechanisms of shadow privatization is the transfer to statutory state equity funds, which is then washed out through emissions, additional emissions. What the Ministry of Economics is doing now to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u107	Thank you. Well, about the contests, I said that there is now a regulatory framework that allows all of this to be done. And it was created very recently. Now, let's say with respect to the contract, the Ministry of Economics has already given us a contract last week to register with the Ministry of Justice. And I can only say one thing: it will be soon. It won't be months, it won't be six months, it'll be soon. With regard to the transfer, there were, in fact, extremely many schemes, and not only those related to the further dispersion of the government package, but what was the point? Like a stockholder's company. A joint venture is created, property or stock is transferred there, and then it is owned by this new joint venture. And the state no longer has any. And so, by doing this twice or three times, the state completely loses its influence, as it did, let's say, on Carpatnaftochim. And for that. Well, first of all, this is the subject of a working group led by First Deputy Prime Minister Kinach, and no such case. is considered by the Office of the Attorney-General. A number of working groups have been created to deal with the situation, find ways to legally bring it all back, break the agreements that have been made with the breach of legislation, and bring those responsible to justice. I am directly a member of this group, and I have taken direct part in these situations. So I can assure you that the legality is being restored in relation to all of these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! It's a break, but we've only got three national deputies, so let's let them ask the questions, and then I'll ask the questions for as long as we're spending, for 30 minutes, we'll call it a break. Is there no objection? Then please, Bondarczuk Alexander, get ready for Victor Petrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u109	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Honorable Rapporteur! Today, we are discussing the problem of more efficient use of public property in the statutory funds of enterprises. Well, I do not believe that, as a result of this discussion, we will get any positive results, whether in the form of an increase in jobs that you promised the people when you took power. We are unlikely to increase our budget income. Why do I think that? Because it's part of the state property to date, well, the public part, it's a pitiful piece of that folk-economy complex that was in Soviet times. And don't you think it's time to ask the question, not about improving the management of this property, but about increasing that part? That's the first question. And the second question. What you're going to do to make sure that, as a result of privatization, you plan for more privatizations there, it doesn't get worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u110	I didn't hear the question. Thank you. As for the first, I support this part to grow, but it must grow by attracting additional investment. If we have a State, let's say we have investment, public investment in the State budget. Last year it was 20 and this year it was about 22 billion bracelets. These investments should not serve as a multiplier in order to attract additional funds from non-State actors, only as development takes place. Never in a market economy, the State is the main investor. The State must indicate the growth points in order to accumulate the entire core investment. With regard to public tariffs. So to date, you know very well that our industry subsidizes the population and subsidizes the population well; there are 2-3 times the tariffs for industrial enterprises that are higher than for the population. Therefore, when an enterprise transfers electricity to utilities, it thus, well, tries to relieve itself of the burden of this subsidy, the cross-subsidization. In general, it must be said that all tariffs must be economically objective, to compensate for the full cost of the services involved. And that's why, until we get the order in the tariff itself, the structure of the tariffs, and now that this work is done, because the government is already looking at the order in which the tariffs are set for heat, let's say, in the communal sphere. The order for water tariffs is already approved in 2001, but unfortunately, the companies that provide water do not use it, do not use it, do not use local self-government. So when we set up a tariff order at the right economy, when we put in place the appropriate energy-saving equipment, we can go out not only to increase, but to stabilize tariffs in housing and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u111	Victor Petrov. Prepare Vladimir Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u112	Victor Petrov, the Communist faction. Dear Sergey Andreyevich, this is Valentin Petrovna, unfortunately, not listening as you spoke, not listening to the answers to the questions. It would probably be right today for the Holding Fund, which does not control State property as much as it distributes it, to help the property pass over to clearly inefficient owners, to set a stop today and to say that all this privatization, which was designed as an instrument for the collapse of Ukraine's economy, did not justify itself. Bring the perpetrators to justice and start working for the economy. Well, that's a question for you. You know the Vinnicke area, you worked in the Vinnicke district. Sugar mills are very recent. contributed 30 per cent of the regional budget. Today, in recent years, 7 sugar factories have been destroyed, cut and sold in scrap metal. The Fascists destroyed only three sugar factories during the war. I'd like to ask you to tell Kabmina, the Ministry of Economics, that you can't destroy sugar factories. If the plant is destroyed, the settlement is destroyed, it will not be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u113	Yes, thank you, Victor Borisovich. I know this problem, I know it, and I am absolutely in solidarity with you that this barbaric privatization of sugar plants that happened when equipment was destroyed or was exported at the cost of scrap metal, it really was. This was a serious violation of privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u114	Please, Vladimir Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u115	Petrenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Sustina. In a violation of the law through the laundering of the stock control package, as discussed here today, public enterprises are being and are being lost. That's exactly what I'm saying. Our Oranta. Even Timoshenko, Prime Minister, acknowledged a violation of the law on the reprivatisation or privatization of the Orant. Specifically. Why is such intrusion allowed and what is being done to bring back to the State the national shareholder insurance company Oranta? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u116	You mentioned reprivatization laws, we don't have them. And as for this company specifically, I can honestly tell you that I don't have any information about her embezzlement, so I'll take care of it and then I'll answer you in person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u117	Yes, the list of those who would like to ask us a question is exhausted. Thank you, Sergey Andryovich. Have a seat, please. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u118	Take up jobs. We're continuing the meeting. The break's over. We're continuing Government Day. I invite you to speak to the head of the Economic Policy Committee, management of the national economy, property and investment of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, 10 minutes. They'll hear your voice, they'll be right there, Stanislav Ivanovich. There's a
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u119	Respectable Society! Dear voters! The contents of the reports, questions from national deputies and the responses of government officials clearly show the huge losses that Ukraine’s economy has already suffered in terms of unreserved liberalisation and its process of dispossessing and privatizing state property. We have to talk about this, because economic policy and an active government is essentially a liberal government, contrary to the Declaration on Social Priorities. One eloquent example. We have a government program called The Property of the People, if anyone has forgotten, is the slogan of the Yellow Socialist Revolution in 1917. But on the other hand, we have a very high level list of state - owned objects for sale. Real jobs, taxes, and important social infrastructures are included in the list of enterprises that make steady and substantial profits. Some determine the level of economic security of Ukraine. Perhaps some people will benefit from this sale, but not from the people of Ukraine. Just one question. When the economy of the state is finally under control, so-called investors. And that is to say, who then guarantees the creation of the five million jobs promised to the people of Ukraine. The analysis of official statistics strongly shows that the positive impact of the state sector on Ukraine's socio-economic development has decreased significantly over the past 15 years. In 1990, this sector provided a lion's share of Ukraine's government budget -- 52.3% of all budget revenues. In 2004, tax, non-taxable revenues to Ukraine’s state budget from state-owned enterprises and enterprises, with a statutory share of the state, accounted for only 7.1% of the total income. Between 52 and 7, nearly eight times the weight of the State’s contribution to the budget treasury decreased. In addition, the same treasury lost weight at 4: 00 p.m. during the same period. And in view of your attention, honourable deputies, the repeated demands of senior officials for mad footnotes to GDP in 2004, the overall impact of the real economic sector on social realities looks amazing. Is such a fall natural? As this comes out of reference materials and reports, the state has 51% of all statutory funds that provide only 16% of the total income tax. Let's take a more general indicator. According to the authors of the already mentioned People's Property Program, the state controls almost a third of the main production assets. So it turns out that half of the statutory funds, one third of the major funds are only going to give the budget 1/6 of the revenue. So government property is being used very ineffectively. The general reason is known. All independent Ukrainian governments have set and continued to pursue a single goal since 1992: the sale of national wealth under the conditions of the most advantageous to a particular investor. So-called pre-privatization training, often heavily left not only all government-owned balances and losses and social objects to the recently single production complexes. There's no cost-effective manufacturing left in government detention, that's all. This is followed by specific decisions, specific people whose names are well - known. It's about the actions of the authorities. But please tell me where the economic failures in the energy field are based, where there is theoretically a rather strong state effect, this is in the sphere that now determines the further fate of the state and its citizens. Of course, it's possible to write NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's fantastic debt before the State Budget on its former leaders. But how do you explain to small Ukrainians the chronic damage to the state's oil and gas sector, which is not widely known to high officials and well-known politicians, and the benefits that ownership has brought to the people here, which has given rise to billions of capitals. And now, as we know, it's a field for tools that reach billions, for example, in oil and gas exports. Who will be responsible for the extra workload on the budget as a result of the review of the calculation order for the Turkmen gas. And for the Russian gas that seems to be stored in our underground gas shelters. What the government has done in general to improve the efficiency of managing the power sector, such as nuclear power, where more than one million people have been fed. What are the achievements of the National Energy Company of Ukraine? Ask these rhetorical questions because we didn't get any answers. Instead, our voters with you are hearing a number of government statements about an irreversible increase in electricity and gas tariffs, which is at least 25 percent, as well as a report by Minnekonomica that the price of animal production and sugar has been ineffective. The government’s contributions to the Supreme Council, as well as the government’s reports, have once again testified to the fact that, despite the current legislation, the Supreme Council’s ruling, and the recommendation of parliamentary hearings, the government was not determined in the main direction of its economic policy. He has neither taken nor takes action to address the acute problems of socio-economic development. Moreover, the normal practice of government activity was to ignore the rules of current legislation, which also led to the collapse of the public sector of the economy. It is no wonder that in Ukraine, economic, financial abuse, crime, malicious abuse of rights are flourishing in such a position of government. In violation of the provisions of the Law on the imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of property adopted as early as 2002, the government does not make any proposals for changes to existing legislation to prevent abuse. Antilegal enforcement of property, including government property, continues at no cost. Think of it, fellow citizens, 56 billion loss of state property. That's the number that came out of the head of the State Property Fund. What state interests can be discussed when the authorities of the state tax administration speak to the initiators of a misappropriation of property belonging to a part of the state’s property, without prejudicial consideration of matters. The case law does not apply articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine that determine the criminal responsibility for bankruptcy and effective bankruptcy. If we wish in our Ukraine today, God’s temple in our courts can also be bankrupted. By the way, corruption in the courts is distinct from the materials of the World Economic Forum, which we conducted so recently in Kiev. Legends can already be drawn up about what is called the rehabilitation of businesses. Government structures are stubbornly sabotaging the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Things Rights and Their Restrictions, which has been in place since August 1st last year. With the legal provision, I emphasize, the creation of the Single State Register of Land and Real Estate makes it impossible for so - called opaque property transactions. To everyone who is known for breaking up property does not have a constitutionally defined and valid government response. The General Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice are not responding. And the Supreme Court of the Master is celebrated only by the fact that during the past few months the palace, which in its splendor has surpassed all the architectural achievements of the Tax Administration in the time of the so - called criminal regime, was built. This is state property in the highlands. So, dear colleagues, let's make another decision about economic policy. Perhaps even though it will finally benefit our government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u120	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. [[Applause]] From the commission he has the first deputy head of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization of Ludmila Fedorovna Kirichenko. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u121	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, appreciates the government’s efforts to improve the efficiency of government governance, and it should be objectively noted that today’s government is working for five months, so significant changes in this sector are not to be expected. Yet, even the measures planned by the government by June of this year have not yet been implemented. Yes, in order to implement the Cabinet of Ministers' programme "Meet People" in the current year, the government has adopted Decree No. 324, which was scheduled in May to provide for the development and adoption of a new state privatization programme and accelerate the adoption of a law on the administration of public property. What are the results? The new state privatization programme has not been developed. Today's information alone reports that the new privatization programme will also address the problems of governance of national corporate rights. Is it not clear how the government and the Holding Fund are planning to implement a new privatisation strategy without new legislation? After all, the government has not developed a bill on the administration of public property. And Bill No. 6027, submitted by the National MP, according to scientific expertise, is imperfect and requires substantial work. In addition, it concludes that the bill in question is almost entirely compatible with the law that was repealed by the Supreme Council as early as February 2004. The government’s working group on preparing proposals for the bill was scheduled to make a proposal to Kabmina by June 30, 2005, by order of 13 June 2005. Considering that there are three working days left by the end of the session, it is clear that by September the laws mentioned cannot be adopted. Next, the information provided by the government states that the legal uncertainty of the status of the State's corporate rights transferred to the statutory holding fund leads to the exclusion of public equity packages from the framework of privatization legislation. It is commendable that the government understands this, but no legislative acts that regulate this issue have been developed. That is why I would particularly like to draw the attention of a working group set up by the government. The government’s earlier law on holding companies in Ukraine should also be mentioned. It may also be necessary to create a working group after its completion. We also point out that the government in the People's Property programme is planning to create holding companies, and information on Government Day indicates that there is a reduction in the number of holding companies. So you might want to finally figure out the appropriateness of these companies. I can't help but mention the government's recent normative acts. For example, pursuant to the January 15, 2005, decree No. 50, shareholders whose statutory funds have state corporate rights pay an additional 30 percent of the profits. The question is, does the government feel that such fiscal management does not lead to a crisis in the enterprise? How can an enterprise privatize the means of production if the profits are almost completely eliminated and the credit resources are not available to enterprises through high interest rates? Despite the authorities ’ assurance that they should adhere to the Constitution, the practice of issuing presidential decrees on the administration of public property is continuing, although only government has such powers. For example, the President's decree on measures for the stabilization of the oil and oil market, which the government is entrusted with a vertically integrated company to manage corporate rights of the state in oil and oil companies, is a transfer prohibited by Law 2294, which you and I have adopted, and President's Decree of 27 May 2005 No. 850 on urgent measures for the development of the aviation sector, which the President is tasking to create a scientific association called Antonov. So in this case, we have to empathize with the government about taking his office as president. To conclude, there is no optimism about improving government governance. And that's not only because the above-mentioned laws are missing, but the main reason is that the authorities are not used to enforcing the laws and even the Constitution of Ukraine. The right to manage government property is taken over by all — from the President to the Heads of State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. The 17 national deputies were enrolled. So let's do this: let's propose that we speak first to the factions, then to the people's deputies. We have 17 national deputies signed up, and I think we're all going to get a chance to speak. Three minutes. Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Vadim Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u123	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party, Cherkaščina Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the People’s Party believes that the issue that is being considered today is important, but it is being heard with great delay. Problems in the management of state - owned enterprises or in parts of a state in established households really require careful consideration and action. The state is small and still has huge capital, these are stocks in state-owned enterprises or state-owned enterprises themselves. According to the State Property Fund, the share of state ownership is about 30 billion per nominal. If you look at the market value, this cost is 5 times the minimum. These companies are making big profits. This is the Crucifixion, the wine industry, the alcohol industry, the metallurgical combinations, our national companies Naftogaz Ukraine, the energy company, the Bread of Ukraine, Ukradprom, Nadra Ukraine, but there are virtually no receipts for the budget. It is not surprising when these businesses are leased or privatized. The rent even involves those who are not privatized. Today, there are a lot of options that allow private property to be taken away -- that's leading to bankruptcy, that's making additional emissions. In fact, I'm going to exaggerately say that there's been a cynical theft of state property. That's what we have with the big giants of our industries, that's what happened to small businesses, milk factories, sugar factories, elevators. To this day, we do not even have a register of state property rights. Please tell me, would you give a good host free of charge or rent such a huge amount of capital? At least the share that should come into the dividend budget should be at least 5 billion, not 500 million, as stated in the State Budget. This could have become an investment in our nation's economy. It is precisely these costs that are not enough for social programs, for free medical care, for free education. In its time, a corporate management agency was set up in Ukraine, but unfortunately the company was shut down. It must be noted that there are many problems today, including at the legislative level. At the same time, I want to point out that there has been more order in the administration of corporate rights lately, and that we have managed to put order in a number of businesses. There's work at the foundation with Valentina Semenyuk coming. At the same time, the faction of the People’s Party believes that it should be put to an end to the theft of state property by applying different schemes. We demand a substantial improvement in the system of effective governance of government parts, the selection of experienced managers, transparency, and changes in tax legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u124	Thank you. Vadim Gurov, from the "One Ukraine" party. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! For Ukraine, the problem of government ownership is extremely important. 14 years ago, the entire Ukrainian industry belonged to the State. Over this very short period of time, we have not only had to learn to manage state-owned enterprises in market economy conditions, but also to ensure that there are completely no more than the Soviet system of tasks, such as the search for an effective owner and the preservation of social security for workers. These tasks were internally controversial and often did not go well. That is why we must now recognize the extremely unsatisfactory efficiency of government ownership. This property, instead of serving the needs of society, often becomes a mechanism of personal wealth, a source of corruption, and shadowy privatization schemes. This is known to all, but none of the previous governments have ever begun to clean these august stables. So it's finally time to put things in order. And we. All actions are aimed at introducing transparent and effective controls over government ownership. What are these mechanisms supposed to be? First. The state share in statutory funds of farm societies should provide income for dividends. State ownership should work in the interests of society, such as making money to finance social benefits, salaries for teachers, doctors, pensions and various assistance to low-income citizens. By the way, in the 2005 budget, state-owned enterprises have to pay 50 percent of their net profit as dividends. i.e. dividends of interstate particles are a serious source of budget replenishment. Theories. What about practice? According to the government this year, revenue from the state. There were only 700 million dollars. That's 2.2 times what it was in 2004. It's like a lot, but at the same time, it's only 2.5% of the nominal, and I'm stressing the nominal value of the state share of statutory stock companies. So the profitability of government property is only 2.5%. Secondly, State participation in the management of enterprises with a share of state ownership should ensure that social obligations are met: more jobs and more wages. The main reasons for this state of affairs are the low professional level of governance, the lack of ownership of some of the woe leaders, and, in many cases, the outright abuse of officials. What do we suggest? First of all, the insistence on privatization of all parts of the state property of enterprises that have nothing to do with national security and secondly, we propose to support the government and accept the changes before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u126	Igor Shurma, the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine is invited to speak. [[united]] Prepare Yuhiu Zvigilski from the "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u127	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] What are the reasons for ineffective management? First of all, it's a low level of management in the country, it's a lack of systems to stimulate the management of the business for good work, it's a general problem of the Ukrainian economy, such as the shadow sector, the limitation of markets. There are also specific problems for mixed-ownership enterprises that are formed precisely to counter the interests of the state and the interests of the investor, which is better called a non-state co-owner. Today, processes are being developed that will have a negative impact on the development of a mixed form of ownership. First, it's narrowing down the notion of statehood. Is there any reason why it is considered that if the pursuit of public interests is to withdraw the maximum amount of money from the company into the budget regardless of whether it is beneficial to the enterprise or not? But it's a non-state approach. The company remains Ukrainian, works in Ukraine, and receives a salary. Isn't that in the interests of the state? That is why the question needs to be asked more broadly, not only about raising the efficiency of state-owned enterprises, but also about the urgent need to improve the quality of state-owned governance. The other one. In recent times, it has not been the market-based command and administrative methods of managing the economy at all, and especially with regard to attempts to shape such policies in relation to mixed-proprietary enterprises. Public administration is less effective than private government. Command methods can't be effective -- it's an axiom. The main challenges arise, as always, in the matter of ownership. The lack of legislatively defined transparent mechanisms of the State’s system of interests, co-owners and employees creates a situation where the enterprise is not comfortable with developing or developing in very distorted forms, engaging in shadow schemes, producing goods and generating financial resources. There is a need for a transparent mechanism to distribute the profits of a mixed form of property. It cannot be that an investor assumes an obligation to privatize an enterprise, and the state does not. What's more, when the state plans to delete the entire share of the profit, and the investor has to develop the enterprise at the expense of his own share of the profit. That's impossible. Not just because it doesn't suit common sense, but because reinvesting in profits is an increase in the statutory capital of an enterprise if the state doesn't take part in reinvestment. The social-democratic party of Ukraine is underscoring. [[united]] Effectiveness should not be proclaimed but molded. The fact that Ukraine’s market economy status had been postponed to autumn once again strongly confirmed a simple message: You should not invent any new model of the Ukrainian market economy. There's a generally defined market economy model. And by its rules, you have to form a policy on enterprises with a public share of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u128	Yuchim Leonidovich Zviagilski, faction of "Ukraine". Please, your word. Get ready for Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u129	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected members of the Government. With regard to the improvement of the system of management of personal objects, according to today's information and the People's Property Programme, the Government is on track. However, I believe it is necessary to make a few comments. First. The performance of the functions of the State as owner is not supported by financial resources. It's scary and unfair. Of the more than 16 billion bracelets received over the past five years from privatization, it has not invested anything in the corporate sector. The solution is not in the information, nor in the “Ownness of the People” programme. This puts an enterprise with a personality in a relatively poor position compared to similar objects of other forms of property. Second. Measures to improve the planning of human beings. Fortunately, the State cannot be limited to financial planning. They should also address the main aspects of productive activities. These are technical re-arms, technological improvements, updating and product quality and many other factors. Third. Strengthening the monitoring of the implementation of the programme's financial plans is necessary. But this control is not pre-emptive; it does not prevent negative effects in a timely manner. Operational monitoring of financial factors affecting production is needed. Fourth. The establishment of joint ventures with State participation only if they do not have more than half of the capital allocated to them amounts to more than 50 per cent. As early as 2004, Mintopenergo agreed to establish a shareholding society based on the mining mine of the Shakhta Westko. In March 2004, an order was issued by the Housing Fund and a procedure was established for the establishment of this society. Preparations, audits, delimitation and evaluation of contributions of founders to the Charter Fund have been undertaken. About a million bracelets were spent on this. Independent experts valued mine assets at one billion 250 million. Listen up, distinguished deputies, to one billion 250 million. A billion is mine, 8 per cent and 22 per cent is a State. The new leadership of the Mintopenergo and the Gosmein Foundation, following the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers'decree of 28 February 2005, does not confirm the approval of 158 for the establishment of a shareholder society. For more than half a year, no advisory decisions are net. We write in every instance, and no one wants to solve anything. Like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u130	Yes, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk is invited to speak from the faction of the Party of Industrialists, entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u131	Mikola Onischuk, faction of the political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The topic that is being discussed in Parliament today is, according to our faction, not subject to those clusters of issues that will be dealt with later today, especially when it comes to the introduction of Ukraine to WTO or to the consideration of another package of important bills, because it is well known that much of the property of the Ukrainian people today is being used in government ownership through a mechanism of corporate rights management that is not always effective. I'm going to point out that in terms of analysis of the level of legal regulation in the country, the relationship that relates to the administration of national corporate rights is the least developed. Not surprisingly, perhaps this can be explained by a certain pattern, since it is the possibility and access to profits through the corporate rights management mechanism. It is enough to note that today, despite the fact that Parliament has been proposing for the past five years to adopt a new law on equity societies, we do not have an effective legislative act to deal in detail with the issue of the activities of households, including the management of government parts in such societies. The same applies to other bills that remain on the shelves of the Supreme Council and have not become laws of Ukraine. It is worth noting that the problems that need to be addressed in the near future, which need to be resolved, also include the issue of inventory, the full and detailed inventory of state ownership and corporate rights that are now in the administration of the State. The head of the foundation spoke about this today, citing the corresponding figures, but they still apply to the general contours of this state of affairs and do not affect the sector's sectoral analysis, including the corresponding analysis of a number of problems that exist for a particular enterprise that works in this area. Obviously, the problem is also that there is, in fact today, no body that would have been authorized by the government or by law to carry out such inventory and to ensure that the State's respective control function on the efficient use of such property is implemented. It is evident that the documents provided by the government for today are of quality. This should be noted, for there is a clear picture of what to do and how to do it. It is important that these purposes be implemented in legislative decisions and specific government decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u132	Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party is invited to the presentation. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u133	Vladimir Černjak, Ukrainian People’s Party Deputies! State ownership in Ukraine is extremely ineffective. In this regard, we need to adopt this bill, which is a step in solving this problem. So our faction will vote yes. In general, I want to say that Ukraine could make a fortune by selling various criminal schemes on the international shadow market for the theft of state property. But until she does, and she probably won't, these schemes are working against Ukraine. Of course, this bill will not solve all problems. All I'm saying is that he's a step in solving these problems. If you look at the problem conceptually and put it in a broader context, you have to say the following about what you need to do next. We need to be very careful about handing over corporate rights to holding companies. In general, this needs to be done, but carefully, elegantly, because it weakens the state, the state's ability to manage government property, corporate rights. A second reading of the State Property Fund Act requires that the fund be in law. Until now, everything has been done to block the adoption of the Law on the Fund of State Property. And there's not that much left in the state of ownership, let's just speed up the adoption of this fund right now. In addition, a law on the administration of public property should be adopted. The adoption of this law is being blocked. And it is the adoption of a law on governance of public property that is a radical solution to the problem of improving the efficiency of government ownership. In addition, there is a need for regulations, such as a subcontraction of tendering for management positions of government managers. You and I know that one of the criminal schemes is that state property is kept in shape, but financial flows are being used by criminals to plant their people, and in preserving the form of state property, the theft of state property is taking place. So it's very important that we open up a transparent tender for a set of managers and managers. And we need to prepare a statute for government objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u134	Peter Simonenko is invited from the Communist faction. Let us now move on to the speeches of the National Deputies. Vladimir Puzakov will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u135	Dear voters, the question is confirmed by the communists that under the terms of searching for an effective owner, there was actually a robbery in Ukraine by the people of Ukraine. State authorities in independence did not control the efficiency of the use of national property at all. The state has lost control of 85 percent of the people’s wealth, and what has resulted to our people? The domestic gross product has been reduced nearly five times, the industry -- five times, agriculture -- eight times, the state budget's income -- six times, the average wage -- four times. But we also have to take into account that by destroying the state monopoly, the gateways that stood by the throne were able to create their own monopolies. [[otherwise they cannot be called today, coming out of the situation in Ukraine]] High - quality businesses have been placed in their hands at the cost of remaining prices, and they are practically controlled. The country was completely robbed. According to the State Committee on Statistics, the main funds in the national economy on January 1, 1991, amounted to $810 billion, privatized 85 percent, or 700 billion dollars. What did the State get? About 19 billion dollars, or 3.8 billion dollars, everything else is stretched in their own pockets. I think I should also take into account that in the 91st year, the profit from using national property was $186 billion, and in 2004 it was only $8.5 billion. Conclusion. There is no economic policy in the country. As a result, 40 percent of unemployment, ruined basics of social policy, low wage levels, constant price and tariff increases, epidemics, and much more. But there is another problem. Failure to pay the State budget for adequate dividends has, as it were, become an additional source of wealth. Yes, only the open stock company Dniproenergo, Kyivenergo, Kyivoblanergo, Energoat was not included in the State dividend budget in the amount of 442 million dollars in 2000-2003. Remember who was the prime minister when they didn’t pay! I mean, like the hero of one movie said, "they got their own hair confused with the public." [[It's your own!]] What should we do? We have repeatedly, the Communists, offered. First of all, there is a need for a thorough inspection of the use of privatized enterprises, i.e. inventory. And the second. On the basis of the Law, to nationalize the basic industries, to create an indivisible national property fund that will create a condition for social issues, and to explore today, including a small and medium-sized enterprise. I want to say it again. To carry out this policy, we need to change this system of power, and we need to change the approach to government at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u136	Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction, please be invited to the presentation. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u137	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The People's Property Program is kind of about creating conditions for the rational and efficient use of state property. But in my view, not enough attention has been paid to the analysis of the problems of the public sector of the economy, which require immediate solutions and ways to improve the management and efficient use of public property. In this situation today, the sugar plant in Kirovgrad was a race - running plant. In Soviet times, it was a high - cost enterprise that employed up to one and a half thousand workers, and the factory maintained the entire social sphere of the village. The working village of the Persecution flourished and the standard of living of workers and peasants was high. In 1994, this factory was founded by an open stock company called the Preegonov Sugar Plant, which was founded by the State Property Fund of Ukraine and a group of companies. And in 1997, Artemis was the owner of the stock control package. And, as we can see, after interfering with this union in the race sugar plant, it is probably right that this union should be held accountable for today’s price of sugar, that the plant was shut down and 750 factory workers and their families were thrown out in the street, and they were left with all kinds of means to exist. The amount of debt on a salary is about half a million dollars, a totally decommissioned social sphere in a factory village, a completely shut down power supply for a factory, water supply, and water supply, which can lead to environmental insecurity. The labor force is desperate, and the director of the conspiracies, in large numbers, is not thinking of finding a way out of a crisis situation. This must please him. But the government must listen to the voice of the people. Because Ukraine starts with such a race. The Pregonov sugar plant needs to be restored to state property immediately. This is what factory workers require. So the big mistake of the People's Property program is the reduction of government property, but at the same time it doesn't answer the question about the return to ownership of the people of those objects. that they have been privatized with a breach of legislation, as well as with the failure of new owners of their obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u138	Basil Nadrag. People's Party faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u139	Vassili Nadraga, People's Party faction. Dear colleagues, the situation in today's economy requires special attention to the corporate sector with part of State ownership. Today, we must say that it is not simply a matter of replenishing the State budget by coming from the privatization of the State, but we must also receive the maximum income from income in the form of taxes, dividends, rents, commissions and other payments of such enterprises, where the State has its share of property. There are a lot of problems in the management of State cooperative rights, and that is true. Contravention of an imperfect legislative framework has a negative impact on the efficiency of governance. There is no corporate culture, no long-term planning, no conditions for investor protection. The management of economic property in statutory funds, in which the state share exceeds 50 per cent, you can think of 10.9 different executive bodies. Accordingly, the results of this administration vary. Thus, a society in the administration of the executive branch has suffered a net loss of 568.2 million bracelets. While the society that is in the administration of the household fund received a profit of 255.5 million bracelets last year. There must be a point to speak and to make a single State body, a single State structure that deals specifically with these issues and has the authority to do so. Such a structure should be operated by specially trained managers, who would not only monitor the management of the enterprise, but would also develop, implement and be responsible for the implementation of the programmes. However, I would also like to refer to the issue of public property management in enterprises for which bankruptcy proceedings are initiated and the procedure for sanction is introduced. Under the law, public authorities have the power to manage public property of debtors whose property exceeds 50 per cent of government property, and they agree on the recovery plans. However, such harmonizations are not always national. As a result of such rehabilitation, disposed property is transferred to a new investor owner and the public interest is therefore forgotten and the State remains worn-out and morally outdated equipment. It is thought that it would be appropriate to consider establishing an authorized public authority to undertake investment activities that would prohibit the ineffective implementation of the sanctions plans and further restore the capacity of the State to pay and respect the interests of the State. It is therefore deeply convinced that the tasks of both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Deputies today are to create joint efforts in such a way that the efficiency of the management of those enterprises where there is a State share should be as effective as possible, including in the form of the results of their activities, which will be obtained in the form of finance by the same State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Please give me your word. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u141	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable national MPs, respected few-man government officials. Today, there is a question of government action to improve efficiency. I want to give you a clear answer. There are improvements, but we have to note that the measures taken by the government are clearly not enough to effectively manage government property. This should be noted. First of all, there has been no inventory of all assets so far. Until now, contrary to the government’s promises, the detailed program that we have been promised from this rostrum is not presented in the Supreme Council. And it's also a bad thing that we haven't passed the government law until now. I call on all the national MPs not to go on vacation until we pass two basic laws on government and on the holdmain foundation. We have nothing to do, and we have nothing to do with it. We're throwing one woman out there on purpose, I mean Valentine's Seed. Every day in Odessa, there's lights out in the area. Who owns an olanergo in the country? When will the government begin to order? The owners sit in Russia and turn off the light from our citizens. Normal life is affected, technology is damaged, and surgery cannot be performed. The damage is hard to say. And the owners, once again, sit far away. One of the ways I want to privatize you is by transferring state property to a utility with further privatization. When such privatization takes place, all these objects must be controlled. Then, when we get a register of government property, when we finally make it, when we see a register of what they were going to do during privatization, that is, privatization promises and obligations. When and who will control their execution. I would address these questions to the Prime Minister, but unfortunately he's not here today. And I'd like to draw your attention to these colossal objects that somehow reduce profits, and on the other hand, there are negative results, this is Naftogaz Ukraine -- 17 percent, Ukrreses -- 87, Nadra Ukraine -- 21 percent. It's tragic when that happens. And I'm sorry when I get answers, including from the new government, from the new holding fund, which, for example, was 50.1 percent of the government there. Now it's only 43 and 054. I'm writing, "Get out of the way." Naftogaz answers: everything's great, everything's great. We transferred to the fund according to the President's decision. So let's cancel already. I call on Victor Andryovich to call off the decision, all the negative decisions of that President. Let's look at that decision. And finally, but. [[Everything can't be said.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u142	Yuri Solomatin, a Communist faction, is invited to speak. Mikhailo Melniczuk will perform after Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u143	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the government of capitalist ministers is reporting on measures to improve the efficiency of state ownership in the statutory funds of privatised societies and societies created by state participation. To this report, if according to the 2003 National Tax Administration, there were only 834 million in Ukraine, including 300 of them in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they had already become over 1,600 in 2004! Here's the report! Under the slogan, "General!", i.e. nothing, the people's property in 1991 not only were the representatives of the party-, the state-, the masculinity, but also, unfortunately, the people. Most of the so - called small Ukrainians spit on their Soviet past and were in line to receive a voucher, a property or a pie, turned into a collective Liona Golubkova, who dreamed that he would live only on dividends. Ah, lying to me isn't hard, I'm glad to be fooled myself. The people got a hole in the bubbly, and the bubbly stayed with those who are reporting today, I mean government officials from this rostrum. The great Soviet nation, the conqueror, did not stand up to the ambassadors of the country's political wreaths and suddenly wanted to become the petty owner of the bourgeois European shire, but failed to succeed. Lionya Golubkov, or the people, remained with his nose or with a duel. The Communists have repeatedly warned of the dire consequences of political fraud, called the All-U.S. referendum of December 1, 1991, and the shocking transition to the market economy. He wanted the nation’s ominous independence and was pushed by a paper doll. Folks, you've been reduced from 52 million to 48 million, 7 million of our compatriots are moving in search of work abroad, you're out of power and property, and the drop in living standards is now 2-3 times. At this stage, the Ukrainian Company proposes to acknowledge Ukraine's national idea of the return of the nation's national property, the work is honest with itself, not with the new wealth, statehood, but with the State of workers and workers, justice. Justice for those who make this world with their own hands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u144	Mikhailo Melniuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please, your right to speak. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u145	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! We should note today the fact that the State Property Fund, which has recently led Valentina Seminouk, has adopted an uneasy farm for farming. We understand that today 80 percent of the government's shares are not sold in the process of privatizing the remaining enterprises. The corporate rights of the state in the portfolio form a package of open stockholding companies established in statutory funds of state holding companies. And these, in turn, are carrying out the alienation of government stocks. This has been the case in Ukraine in recent years. Many examples are available throughout Ukraine today. I'm only going to touch one area, the Cherniewsky region. Yes, under the cover of the fact that the people have to give everything they own to give away the shares of the enterprises. And the fact that today there is a finding that the people did not own these businesses, and today they are in other hands, and thank God, if there are about 100 cases of two or three cases, where there is actually a host who returns people to the workplace and pays for them, such enterprises need to be supported. But what I'm talking about today is that part of the government stock packages that I've been talking about, that everything is done to keep these companies from being profitable and not attractive to investment. That is why we feel that we need it today. To do it in Parliament: first, immediately, and once again, I support National Deputy Carmazin, a colleague, in that we should adopt the State Property Fund Act in the second reading. Thus, giving direction to the State Property Fund in order for them to carry out, on the basis of their activities, by law, a clear and purposeful conduct of the policies that benefit the Ukrainian people today. Secondly, we can't just give, wait for effective work from the State Property Fund. This position, and not only after that, is a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. And we also say that's not what's done in the state. You can't go back 180 degrees, but you have to go back that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u146	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. You don't? Please, Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u147	Eugene Gornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! One of the main causes of the economic collapse of the Soviet Union and the communist system was the achievement of all and all, of all productions, when, in a situation around the state, everything around me became ineffective. And today's nostalgic notes won't help. Monster's gone, "Bob's dead." But with Ukraine's declaration of independence, it hit another extreme, imposed or introduced here by a globalist myth of the seemingly absolute inefficiencies of state ownership and government administration, and the regimes of Kravczuk and Kuchma gave their former parties an unlimited opportunity to "receiv" the state of property and become oligarchs. There is now a period of sorting out wild capitalism and the subject under consideration is very topical today. How Can I Manage State Property in Ukraine? It is gratifying that we have heard from a report that despite the pessimism of Ms. Valentina Seminouk, 51 percent of the statutory capital of Ukraine still belongs to the State, but is this property managed effectively. The question is rhetorical, but we have to admit that most of the budget revenue does come from the public sector. The report cited an example of NAC, which reduced its profits by 7 billion dollars, but this was in the past year. Taking into account the information that the cleaning lady received $500 a month at Yanuković’s election headquarters in Zaporezí district, it is not hard to guess where the profits were. This same year, the yields from Naftogaz's NAQ increased 2 times over the last year, and in general, in the budget coming up, that's 10 percent of the budget. Conclusions. The People's Property Program, proposed by the government, should be implemented, but needs some details, namely: registration, effective registration of the holding; improvement of the depository system; adoption of laws on governance, including on the State Property Fund, is required at this session; improvement of the work with the Public Prosecutor's Office to effectively protect public interests, not as in the case of the Calusian Lukor, when the State's interests actually seem to it. The government must choose a tactic that can be translated into two words. First of all, don't cut chickens that carry golden eggs. Secondly, do not give the newly discovered and old oligarchs these golden eggs to steal as from the NAQ "Naftogaz Ukraine" And third. Feed such chickens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u148	Thank you. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. To prepare Valeria Pavlovich the Desert.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Honorable People's Deputies! Dear radio listeners! I'd like to focus first on two aspects. Clearly, there has been a great deal of talk about the concept of government property in the presence of the head of the State Property Fund. But we forget that property is communal. And municipal property is privatized under other schemes, and it's very difficult and problematic to control the privatization of municipal property. The prime minister of Ukraine has already been appointed. I fully agree with the fact that state-owned enterprises should remain only strategic enterprises, but their strategy must be determined by the state itself. When we take utilities, there are also strategic enterprises, but not on a state-wide scale, but on an area-wide scale, an area. And there should also be a defined list of objects that cannot be privatized because, in principle, they violate the social balance in a particular area or region of Ukraine. And unfortunately, district councils, district administrations do not judge or ignore their capabilities, and it is rare that a session of the Supreme Council, after careful consideration, allowed for the privatization of municipal property, not municipal property, but municipal property, although such a right is established both by a session of the district council and by appropriate commissions in the body of district councils, or district deputies. That's why the scheme works: first the state-owned enterprise converts it into a utility, then it's easy, easy for a privatizer's pocket to privatize. A great deal and a great deal of privatization is happening in the communal sphere. This is a smaller volume of one-off operations, but a huge volume of total sums passed through the privatization sphere of utilities. And remember, it's also a strategy, it's just a low-level strategy, it's a strategy, it's a strategically important enterprise for districts and villages. And let's say this is a simple example: we can take any town, district or district, where this area is practically repurchased to two, three people. And abuse is very rare. Well, I'm not talking about things like the strategy of an enterprise in the area anymore. Somewhere close some, let's say, sugar plant in Lviv -- that means destroying the whole sector. And in this respect, the closure of these factories is very often due to the inadequacy of the owners of one or the other factories. Therefore, there is also a need for careful and careful observation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u150	Yes. Valerius Pavlovich Desert Tenko. You don't? Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u151	The distinguished people's deputies, the distinguished radios, the communists have for 15 years maintained their claim, tried to convince and explain to the population that the privatization policy of the people's economy, the sectors of the people's economy, which had previously been State-owned, had not fully justified itself and had become harmful to Ukraine. As it is said, they looked at the water. There has been no benefit from the privatization of the people's good. And that's not going to happen again. Today, what's the reason? The reason, not strangely, but perhaps legally, is the origin of Ukrainian private capital. As this capital has accumulated, it will be said that it will be beneficial to the people in coffeehouses. In discussing today's issue, it has been very common that the people of Ukraine should receive the property that belongs to them. I would like to ask if people can name those industries where public property prevails. It seems that in Ukraine everything is already in hand. And the Ukrainian doesn't own any property. I want to bring in the facts. On more than one occasion, people have approached and said, ‘ This is how to understand that forests, land, and natural resources seem to belong to the people, and we cannot take advantage of them. ’ I usually tell them that you turn to the newspapers that are advertising the sale to date, they're as big as multi-page newspapers. In these newspapers, you can read that land is being sold, let's say, 20 hectares, that the factory is being sold, like, for thousands and so on and so forth. And that's when there's no law on selling land, not forests, not natural wealth, not rivers, not lakes. People to this day have no chance of even getting into those corners where they could once rest. And the current debate on this law is nothing more than to tarnish the crimes that have been committed over the past 15 years. Both communists today and earlier reaffirm that this can only be returned to the people's property by nationalizing the basic sectors of the people's economy and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who would like to speak in the discussion, have taken advantage of this opportunity. So we have every reason to say that we have followed through on this issue and we are exhausted. I'd ask if there's no final word. Yes. Please, out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, distinguished Volodymyr Mikhailovich, all the remarks made by the MPs, we will certainly consider, especially with regard to specific references to an object or object. I want to say that today, there was a question about the inventory of state property. The State Property Fund now has a register, a fully electronic system that not only provides the registration of state property, but also the result of the use and analysis of the economic work of an enterprise in both sectors and territories. Sadly, not all ministries have completed the submission of such documents. I think that both the Ministry of Defense and other ministries will do this work, and we will certainly, as provided for today's position on the State Property Fund, give you this information in the session room. The other one. I would very much like, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, taking into account today's situation, to contact the deputies with a request for the adoption of the State Property Fund Act as soon as possible. Believe me, working without this law, it's just, believe me, being on the phone all the time, or under court orders all the time. And that's why I'm just asking you to get this law adopted as soon as possible. Moreover, in accordance with the Constitution, the State Property Fund is accountable to Parliament today. All three institutions that are accountable to Parliament have appropriate laws. The State Property Fund is illegal today. So I ask you to support us in this regard. All comments will be sent and the answers will be sent to each MP and all information will be provided to make sure that you get to know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask the committee to elaborate a draft decision taking into account the proposals and observations and recommendations that have been made during the discussion of this issue and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we can say that the government day is over for today. Dear colleagues, we have 10 minutes to call it a break. How do you feel about this proposal: we can't now begin to consider the issue of not interrupting, we have a number of draft regulations such as the celebration of the 600th anniversary of the founding of the city of Chernivci, the celebration of the 125th anniversary of Vladimir Vinnick, the celebration of the 400th anniversary of the birth of Bogdan Hmelnick and the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the birth of Vadim Gethmann. If we had taken these decisions, voted, and declared a recess, there were no warnings? There's nothing there. You pick up, look, there's some paperwork on that. Well, we'll come, then we'll discuss it if we come. Let's do it this way. That's why I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Decision on measures to support the socio-economic development of the city of Chernivci in relation to the 600th anniversary of its establishment. Registration number 7010. Please vote. [[13:51:59]] For 333 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have this document in the chapter "For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making." Is there a need to discuss it? None. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Decision on measures to support the socio-economic development of the city of Chernivci in relation to the 600th anniversary of its establishment. Registration number 7010. Please vote. [[13:52:39]] For 336 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda a draft decree marking the 125th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian civil politician, one of the leaders of the Ukrainian Revolution of the National National Renaissance, the prominent writer Vladimir Vinnick. Registration number 7448. Please vote. Well, cancel the vote. Please. Change the vote. Shulga, please. Mikola Alexandrovich Schulga, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u155	Honorable National MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, our faction will vote on condition that such a controversial figure as Winnichenko, a prominent figure, has also made for the left movement in Ukraine if the title of the decision itself is not so politicized. Let's leave it to an outstanding public figure in Ukraine. We will vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u156	I think there's nothing here, dear fellows. Let's say "to celebrate the 125th anniversary of the birth of a prominent public figure, Vladimir Vinick." And the writer. "Excellent civil and political actor and writer Vladimir Vinnick. In such an editorial, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulation, registration number 7448, please vote. [[13:54:39]] For 329 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, taking into account the formulation of the draft regulation, we will make the relevant amendments to the founding part, and with that in mind, I am voting on the adoption of the draft regulation. Registration number 7448. Please vote. [[13:55:15.]] For 347 I'll take the order. Now, honourable colleagues, a motion is put to the vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decree to mark the 410th anniversary of the birth, which reads, "the famous Ukrainian hetman Bogdan Hmielnicki". Let's write it down without an epithets: "Draft Decision to celebrate 410 anniversary of the birth of the hemman Bogdan Hmelnick." Well, that's where the famous ghetto guy is written, well, yeah, maybe we'll write a famous one. It's not the epithets, it's the context. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Registration number 7577. [[13:56:14]] For three hundred They've put it in order of the day. Given the details, I'm voting on the adoption of the draft decree on the 410th anniversary anniversary of the birth of Hemman Bogdan Hmielnick. Registration number 7577. Well, "Godday of the Hmmelnick." It's clear that he's a hemman. Please vote. "Godday of the Hmmelnick." [[13:56:50]] For 343 Decision taken. Well, now for another determination. Dear colleagues, this is the draft of the Order on the 70th anniversary of the birth of a prominent politician and financier, Vadim Petrovich Gethmann. For reasons please, Peter Simonenko. Then Bitchkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u157	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you: in this situation, let us understand what is behind all this, we will be very careful and very careful. I would not like to think of the deceased, in our good tradition, to say some things. I would ask the authors to withdraw this draft so as not to force today to talk about some unkind acts that have been carried out during a given period. I would very much like to ask you not to do that and film this project, please. Because we're going to have to talk about some things in the open, and they're going to be very unhypocritical. I'm asking the authors of the project. Please film this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u158	The author of the draft decision, Sergey Bichkov. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u159	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you for putting this important Jubilee project to the vote so quickly. July 12 is 70 years old from the birth of a prominent Ukrainian financier, a banker, an influential politician who, if not for a tragic death, was among us in this room. During his headship at the National Bank, he laid the groundwork for the introduction of Ukraine’s national currency - bracelets. The State Treasury was in operation. Complete formation of the statutory fund of the National Bank. A National Monetary Stability Fund has been launched and an official reserve of the National Bank of Ukraine has been formed. A Ukrainian Interbank Exchange was created. Under his direction, she placed first place among all the markets in our country. He was elected twice by Ukraine’s national deputy, and a tragic death became one of the most resonant crimes in Ukraine’s history. This murder shattered belief in existence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, come on. Well, let's do it this way. Sign up for three minutes, please, for reasons of vote. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u161	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues, surely the dead cannot take the line, surely the dead do not answer. I would like to add that Wadim Petrovich and I accepted the Constitution if anyone remembers it in this room. I would like to remind you that he also built and tried to help with the construction of both churches and schools, and today people remember him. And trying simply to cast a shadow on a person without all the evidence of the base, let's not do it today. There is the author of the decree, he has offered it. There is a proposal to vote for it. Let's define by a majority of votes, and we don't have to throw any shadow at the person who was here in this room with us. And other grades for those or other processes that would prefer, who's the greater patriot of the state, who's smaller, will tell the story. After death, though, people are appreciated. Thank you, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u162	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u163	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I also suggested that, as a result of the fact that there is no tradition of speaking ill of the deceased, I suggested that you take it off. Because, of course, history still gives us a reason, we all witnessed how the Ukrainian currency was made, and where did those who produced the currency come from, and then we looked with you for an answer to the same $200 million. Then, as they took $580 million into the offshore zone, like, say, savings where and how they disappeared, what they did to the bank, what they did to the bank, what they did to the bank. So I came to you, as the author, and I asked you, please have a last name today and don't ask us to keep talking about things that require immediate intervention by the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u164	Valentin Zubov, faction of Block Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u165	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Valentin Zubov, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko Party of Fatherland. Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u166	Andrew Schlell. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u167	Thank you, Valentin. I would like to point out that it's really not worth discussing, because the size of the Gethman figure is so powerful that the dwarfs who try to cast a shadow on him are simply not worth discussing. It is just the sun of our political culture standing so low in Parliament that we can try to cast shadows. The size of this figure cannot obscure any attempt to tarnish it. I ask you to save now and put it to a vote and vote, because it is worth the story before Ukraine's future honour at the national level of this great person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-05-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. Only I'd ask, my dear fellows, to abstain from the sun, because we're all deputies, it's a shadow that will fall upon all of us if we speak humiliating words to each other. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote the inclusion of a day-to-day draft decision with such a corrected, corrected decision. I only ask the authors to listen if they agree. "To celebrate the 70th anniversary of the famous politician and financier." Not famous, "knowingly," I think it'll be important enough to continue to say here in the preamble: "The 12th of July is 70 years old from the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian financier, politician and public figure, national deputy of Ukraine," not the "Deputy of the Supreme Council". The refinements are made there. And then there's the text: "and do the carbing again" not the "jubilee coin" but the "jubilee medal." That's what I asked the National Bank, because it's got a signature on it and that's what the National Bank thinks will be enough. And they've actually released the medal. In view of this, I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's Supreme Council decision, registration number 7610, to mark the 70th anniversary of the famous politician and financier Vadim Gethtman. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:04:17]] For 203 The decision is not taken. In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 74, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 4, People's Party - 16, Block Timoshenko - 32, SPU - 10, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDP (o) - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, "One Ukraine" - 9, Party "Industry, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" - 8, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 8. I'd like to have a consultation, if that's between the factions. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 4:00, we'll continue our fruitful work.
