ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u1	Dear national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with article 104 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the newly elected President of Ukraine takes office from the moment of taking an oath at the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By a decree of 20 January 2005, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to hold a special session on the occasion of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine on 23 January 2005. The President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, and the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk, former President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Human Rights, Head of the Rakunk Chamber, Acting Prime Minister and Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Official foreign delegations arrived at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Estonian Republic is President Mr. Rytel. Canada is Governor General Mrs. Clarkson. Latvia is Mrs. Wicke-Fryberg's president. The Republic of Moldova is President Mr. Voronin. The Republic of Poland is President Pan Kwasniewski. Romania is President of Mr Besescu and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mr. Ungurian. The Slovak Republic is President Mr. Hasparovich and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Kukan. The Hungarian Republic is President Pan Madl and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Shomodi. The Azerbaijani Republic is Prime Minister Mr. Razzadze. The Netherlands is Prime Minister Mr. Balkenende. NATO Secretary-General Mr. Scheffer. The Austrian Republic is the head of the Federal Council, Mr. Pam. The Kingdom of Belgium is the head of the Senate, Mrs. Lizen. The Republic of Belarus — Head of the National Assembly of the House of Representatives, Mr. Konoplov Georgia is the head of Parliament, Mrs. Burjanadze. The Lithuanian Republic is the head of the Seima Pan Paulauscas. Macedonia is the Head of the Assembly, Mr. Yordanowski. The Federal Republic of Germany is President of the Bundestag, Mr Tirze. The Russian Federation is the head of the Federation Federal Assembly Council, Mr. Mironov. Turkmenistan is the head of Majlis Mr. Atayev. The Czech Republic is the head of Parliament, Mr. Sobotka. The Republic of Kazakhstan is Head of Majlis Parliament of the Pan Muhammadian Parliament. The Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is the head of the leadership of the country's leader, Mr Bashir. China is the deputy head of the Permanent Committee of the National Assembly of the People’s Representatives of Pan Lu Yunsyan. The Turkish Republic is Vice Prime Minister Mr. Ali Shahin. Republics of Uzbekistan Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Usmanov The Swiss Confederation is Federal Councillor Mr. Calmi Ray. The Republic of Bulgaria is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr. Pasi. Serbia and Chongoria is Foreign Minister Mr. Draskovic. Republics of Slovenia, Minister of Foreign Affairs, acting Head of the OSCE, Mr. Rupel The United States of America is Secretary of State, Mr. Powell. Tajikistan is the Foreign Minister, Mr. Nazarov. The Kingdom of Sweden is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Freyvalde. The States of Israel are the Vice-Speaker of Knesset, Mr. Noodleman. Armenia is the Minister for Trade and Economic Development, Mr. Chsmaritan. Iran is the Minister of Industry and the Pan Jahangiri Mine. Italy is the Minister for Coordination and Implementation of Mr. Skyola's Government Programmes. Cyprus is the Minister of Interior, Mr. Christ. Luxembourg is the Minister of Justice and Defence, Mr. Frieden. Norway is the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Hiroten. Finland is the Minister of Environment Pan Enestham. France is Foreign Trade Minister Mr. Loos. Croatia is the Minister of European Integration, Mrs. Grabar-Katarovich. OBJECJE is Secretary-General Pan Kubish. The Council of Europe is Secretary-General Mr. Davis. SND is Executive Secretary Mr. Ruchailo. OCOS, Secretary General of the Permanent International Secretariat of the United Nations, Mr. Japaridze UN-Second Secretary-General of the United Nations for Political Affairs, Mr. Turk; The European Parliament is the Deputy Head of the European Parliament, Mr. Wolski. The European Commission is a member of the European Commission on External Relations and European Neighbourhood Policy, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner. The Kingdom of Denmark is the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Saundergard. The Kingdom of Spain is the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. González. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Minister of European Affairs Forin Office Mr. McShain; Portugal is the State Secretary for European Affairs, Mr. Alemayda Santos David. Ireland is Secretary of State Mr. Lenichen. The Greek Republic is Mr. Stylianides, Deputy Foreign Minister; Japan is the head of the Association of Ukrainian-Japanese Friendships, Mr. Yanagisawa. Special guest is Czech President Mr. Havel. Representatives of the diplomatic corps, public organizations, the media and trusted individuals of the newly elected President of Ukraine are also present. Thus, honourable national deputies, distinguished guests, we have every reason to hold a solemn meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please meet the newly elected President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka! The ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the submission of an oath to the Ukrainian people by the newly elected President is open. To announce the results of the election of the President of Ukraine, Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich, head of the Central Electoral Commission, is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to announce the results of the election of the President of Ukraine, on the basis of the Central Electoral Commission's minutes of the re-election of the President of Ukraine, held at the meeting of the Commission on 10 January 2005, at 23 hours 10 minutes. According to sections 1, 2 and 3 of Articles 84; parts 7 and 8 of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act 85; parts 3 of Articles 14, parts 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of the Implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act on 26 December 2004 on the basis of the minutes of the territorial electoral committees on the summary of the re-voting within the respective territorial constituencies and the minutes of the Central Electoral Commission on the summary of the re-voting within a separate foreign constituency, the Central Electoral Commission established: - the number of electoral ballots produced - 38 million 301 thousand 133; - the number of electoral ballots received by the territorial electoral commissions - 38 million 300,000 772; - the number of electoral ballots received by the electoral boards - 38 million 260 thousand 415; - the number of voters on voter lists at polling stations - 37 million 657 thousand 704; - the number of unused ballot papers - 9 million 187 thousand 150; - the number of voters who received the ballots - 29 million 73 thousand 276; - the number of voters who took part in the re-vote - 29 million 68 thousand 971; - the number of ballots declared invalid - 422,000 492; - the number of votes cast for each candidate for the post of President of Ukraine: Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich - 15 million 115 thousand 712 votes, representing 51.99 per cent in relation to the number of voters who took part in the re-vote. Janukovic Viktor Fedorovich: 12 million 848 thousand 528 votes, representing 44.20 percent in terms of the number of voters voting. Thus, according to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on the Speciality of the Application of the Ukrainian Law "On Elections of the President of Ukraine in the Re-election of 26 December 2004" was re-elected by Yushchenko Viktor Andryovich, President of Ukraine on 26 December 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u3	Please sit down, dear friends. The Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mikola Fedosovich Selivon, is invited to take the oath of the newly elected President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The newly elected President of Ukraine, Yushchenk Viktor Andrijevic, has met all constitutional requirements for non-compliance with the office of President of Ukraine. According to his statement, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ceased its mandate as Ukrainian national deputy. It does not include positions in public authorities, unifications of citizens, any other paid or entrepreneurial activity, any part of the governing body or the supervisory board of an enterprise that is intended to receive income. There are also other circumstances that make it impossible to make an oath. I will now give you the text of the oath of the President of Ukraine to the people, the content of which is defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. Please make an oath and fasten it with your signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u5	I, Victor Yushchenko, by the will of the people elected by the President of Ukraine, taking this high office, solemnly swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people, upholding the rights and freedoms of citizens, upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, and fulfilling my duty to all fellow countrymen, and upholding the authority of Ukraine throughout the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u6	Dear participants in the special session! Competing Guests! Dear compatriots! The newly elected President of Ukraine, Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich, swore an oath to the Ukrainian people in accordance with article 104 of the Ukrainian Constitution and took office as President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] From now on, the exercise of powers by the previous President of Ukraine, Kuchma Leonid Danilovich, ceases to exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u7	I ask the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to give the President of Ukraine Mr. Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko a witness on the entry into office of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u8	The President of Ukraine is given a certificate of the entry into office of the President of Ukraine of this content: "It confirms that Viktor Andryovitch Yushchenko was elected in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine by the national will of 26 December 2004 by the President of Ukraine for a five-year term, swore an oath to the Ukrainian people at the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 January 2005 and took office as Head of State."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u9	I ask the Head of the Central Electoral Commission to hand over Victor Andrievich Yushchenko's ID to the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u10	Mr. President, your honor, Victor Andryovich! The height and festivity of today’s long - awaited moment is felt by the whole of Ukraine. And by handing you the testimony of the President of Ukraine, the Central Election Commission warmly and warmly welcomes you to this highest but most responsible state post. "Many are called, but few are chosen," says the Book. It was your destiny to become the chosen one by going through difficult trials and by winning a decisive victory in difficult and, indeed, unique choices that the world did not know. Ukraine did not take the easy path until the outcome of the elections came to be legitimate. But this way has changed us all, strengthening our sense of justice and self - worth. The prophetic words of Lena Kostenko: "When man is a people, then he is a man," have come true for you today, Victor Andryovich, and for our state. The elections indicated that we have a great nation and worthy of its leader. It is well known that politics thinks of future elections, and a statesman thinks of future generations. May these words be a guide to your next activity and to this responsible crossroad of history. So I sincerely wish that you would have sufficient national wisdom, strength, spirit, and obsession, untiring force, at this peak. May your creative energy, purposefulness, political farsightedness bring happiness and well-being to our country, and may you, along with your faith and confidence, force, the people of Ukraine enter into the political future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u11	I ask the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mr. Mikol Fedosovich Selon, to convey the official symbols of the head of state, Mr. President of Ukraine, and Mr. Andriyovich Yushchenek. [[Applause]] I invite Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka to take the official post of President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The word is given to the Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u12	Mr. President Victor Andryovich Yushchenko! I report: there is a calm socio-economic environment in the country, macroeconomic stability is ensured, and there is every opportunity for further development of the country's economy. According to the 115th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Government is in charge of the newly elected President of Ukraine, Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich. I wish you good health and success.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u13	Honorable participants in the Communion, distinguished friends, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the creation of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I hereby entrust the current composition of the Government with the temporary continuation of my mandate before the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on which I issue a corresponding decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u14	The President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko, is invited to speak on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u15	Reverend Fathers, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Honorable National Deputies, Highly Honourable Guests, and dear Friends. I speak for the first time from this rostrum as President of Ukraine. Before that, I had the honour to stand behind this rostrum as head of the National Bank of Ukraine, as Prime Minister of Ukraine, as leader of the "Our Ukraine" faction in today's parliament. From this rostrum I had to speak sweet and bitter words, be in a tight mood and be in very happy moments. And every time I went up to the parliamentary rostrum as a scaffold. Because I wanted every word of my word to strengthen our great home, a democratically independent Ukraine. I am happy that my work was sloppy. It has added to the work of my political brothers, to the work of our Parliament, to the work of the Ukrainian people, to the work of every citizen. In my opinion, this is the case when we build a wall and the wall builds us. Today’s event once again demonstrated that the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian state had taken place. The citizens of Ukraine have won fair elections, and the transfer of power has taken place legitimately. It's a great national victory. [[Applause]] Built by millions of Ukrainian hands, democracy has endured a test of strength, endured an unforgivable test of the Supreme Council. During her trial, she found the strength to stand up for justice. Parliament was with its people, supporting its aspirations and expectations. You, the honourable people's deputies, have defended Ukrainian democracy, protected the unity, unity and independence of our Ukraine. Thank you very much for this. [[Applause]] Thank you very much to every national MP in this room. Today I want to offer you my hand. Today I want to give my hand to every national MP, every faction, every faction, every faction, every faction leader, and call you to cooperate. We have the only goal -- a rich democratic Ukraine. I'm sure for every national MP who's in this room, Ukraine is more than anything. This is a good subject for our work together. I am convinced that our work, dear friends, will continue. We work together with the people and for the people. On such a day, my dear friends, I am looking for a way for us to be among the people. I now invite everyone in this room and the national deputies, guests, friends, all of you to attend today and now, after closing this session, to the field. I want to continue with my people's oaths in these high walls. I call on you all: let's go to the community, she's waiting for us, and let's be together!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-23-m0.u16	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen! Now we have all the legitimate grounds at the same time, consolidated, along with the entire Ukrainian people, to welcome Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka with an oath and an admission to the post of President of Ukraine. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Dear national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen! I declare closed the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of taking an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine and the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
