ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:09]] 416 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 15 December 2005. 34 questions in the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 10 laws and 13 decrees were passed, nine bills were adopted on a basis, one bill was intended for redrafting, and one bill and two draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of the President’s proposals, three laws have been passed in a new edition. Yesterday we were unable to make an effective decision on the issue of the 2006 State Budget project. I am convinced that this is a direct and direct fault of the government. We had to accept the income, expenditure, deficit and transfer, as required by the Budget Code. I'm asking the budget committee, along with the government, to work with the government to work on this issue and prepare it for Tuesday. Otherwise, we have to think about how the country will live after the end of 2005. Announcement now. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovic into the parliamentary faction “Trust of the People”. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, on the basis of the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of 14 December 2005, I am informing you of the change in the full name of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, to the title “Deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block” – the abbreviated “Faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block”. [[political parties “Universal Union of the Fatherland”, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party]] [[political parties “The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland”, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party]] Huh? “The Council” has been excluded. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes for the national deputies to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. I'd like the deputies to sign up for the speech. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Yeah, did you sign up? Please have a list of the national MPs on the board. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Anatoly of the Writer’s Office to the President of Ukraine regarding the announcement of the city of Kirovograd as a zone of ecological emergency. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:29]] For-92 Request not supported. Jury Solomatin and Igor Shurma to the President of Ukraine on the non-information and response to the request of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to establish the illegal involvement of a citizen of the Russian Federation with refugee status in Britain of Berezowski in financing the election campaign of a candidate for the President of Ukraine, Yushchenka. [[10:07:14]] For-162 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:34]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Victor TURMANOVA to the Prime Minister on the critical state of affairs at the State Holding Company Donbas Shahtobud. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the rightfulness of sending a note to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerning the suspension of Ukraine's participation in the SND mission. RAISES TO THE prime minister for the recalculation of pensions for military personnel who have been released from the ranks of the USSR Armed Forces. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister on the development of legal and regulatory instruments relating to the provision of free housing for teaching workers in rural areas. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, Attorney-General for the gross violation of the Ukrainian Water Code, ignoring the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers “On measures to improve the water management situation in the mining companies of Krivbasu” in connection with the disposal of contaminated sewage from the reservoirs of enterprises to the Ingulac and Saxagán rivers. Ms Olga KOBEC to the Prime Minister regarding the failure to comply with the Presidential Decree of 12 July 2005 on additional measures to perpetuate the memory of victims of political repression and famine in Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Head of State Customs, on some of the problems of Ukraine’s environmental development. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for the crisis situation in the Kirovograd Group “Heat power plant” in connection with the non-payment of wages for seven months. Group of MPs to the Prime Minister for non-recovery to the State Treasury for the State budget for gasification of the population in the Donetsk Region. [[KOMAR, VASILEV, KUGLOV]] MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the real subsistence minimum for 2006 and the elimination of violations of the Act on Living Minimum. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the purpose of the gasification of the village of Kutishte in the province of Žitomir. RAISES TO THE Prime Minister for the recalculation of pensions for civil servants in connection with the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 24 September 2005 No. 953 “On the amendment of Appendices 3 and 50 to the Cabinet Decision of 13 December 1999 No. 2288”. Alexia LELJAK to the Prime Minister about the situation in the lemon acid market. Larissa POLACO to the Prime Minister on the situation surrounding the children's specialized anti-tuberculosis sanatorium in the village of Simeiz. [[Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Gregory OMELČENKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the holdingmeine Foundation, for the State's damage to nearly 3 billion dollars during the privatisation of the Open Shareholder Society, Orion. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Prime Minister for the verification of the economic activity of the shareholders’ association, the company “Science” and its ability to pay dividend shareholders. A group of deputies to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the construction of a kindergarten in the village of Stepanka in the Cherka district of Cherka. [[TRAINING, TRAINING, ESTENKO]] Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Prime Minister for the protection of the right to housing of a veteran of internal affairs. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister on the need to review the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 June 2005 No.560 “On the Approval of the Procedure for the formation of tariffs for services with maintenance of buildings and buildings and instigating areas”. MICHAYLA ACCOMMODATED with the Prime Minister on the situation and the provision of information on the commission of a terrorist act on 9 December 2005 on a state-owned facility, the State Enterprise Progress. FIXA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Ternopil State Administration for non-payment in the Ternopil area of single cash assistance to participants in the Great War. Mr. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, for the medical care of children with Goshe’s disease. In 2004 and 2005, Vladimir JAVORIY to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the real growth rates of the internal gross product, which had been distorted by the previous authorities to hide real business in the economy, which were used by anti-government forces to restore the Qutsmu regime. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Health, for the financing of the medical sector in the Kirovograd region. Kirila POLISHUKA to the Prime Minister for the delay in allocating funds for the gasification of the village of Mala Starica Borispil district. The Minister of Education, Minister of Education and Science in relation to the failure to implement Article 57 of the Education Act in the Donetsk Region. Mr. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the non-execution of effective legislation on State guarantees and social protection of participants in hostilities in the Plain region. Vladimir WOJŠA to Prime Minister, head of the holdmain Foundation on the threat of bankruptcy of the state-owned enterprise Onufriev Horse Factory No.175 of Kirovgrad Region and the liquidation of debt on payment of wages to employees of the enterprise Anatolia PISTORY to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyrovograd Regional Public Administration on environmental hazards in the Kirovograd region in connection with the critical level of pollution of the Ingula River. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister, Attorney General, Minister of Health for the Elimination of Debt on Salary Payments of Medical Workers of the Central City Hospital of Kirovské Donetsk Region Alexander TKALENKA and Refata TZUBAROVA to the Prime Minister for the use of land and funds not included in the list of items transferred to the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation under the basic status and conditions agreements in Ukraine. Teams of deputies to the Prime Minister on financial support for the private agricultural enterprise “Prolysok” in the region of Kirovograd. [[TRAINING, TRAINING, TRAINING]] Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister on the implementation of Presidential decrees on the financing of the National University of Ukraine, the “Kyiv Political Institute” and the National Aviation University, in a single line. Vladimir NECHIPRECK to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the illegal involvement of representatives of the Ravenna District Administration in the activities of the Sports Club, the Double Club Trophimova. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the illegal alienation of state property for the benefit of Aeroworld Air Force in Borispol Airport. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the financial and material state of the Hersonian boarding schools. Vassila ADRAVIA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds to ensure the operation of the unique archaeological monument of the North Black Sea, “Olvia”. Mr. Vladimir ĆENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Melnik on the gasification of the village of Babak in the region of Cherka. Yurya BOJKA to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko for the looting of the First Christian Cemetery in Odessa and the establishment of a historic memorial park in its territory. MICHELLE RUDIC to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, Head of the Government of the Social Insurance Fund, for the temporary loss of employment for the provision of children with New Year's gifts. Deputies to Deputy Prime Minister Melnik on the location of the Delhi State Fisheries Inspection Authority. [[DOUBIC, OLUICA, NOVAK]] Anatolysa Rachánsk to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenk, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Minister of Emergency Situations and People's Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for non-response to parliamentary appeals regarding the use of sanatoriums in the cities of Sakiya Eupatoria for a year. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine for the continuation of Birjak's position as head of the Grand-Biloser District Administration in connection with his comments by members of the Board of Trust and an assessment of the actions of the Interstate Prosecutor's Office on this matter. John TOMIĆA to the Attorney General on the renewal of the investigation of the death of Avias-TNC. Deputies to the Attorney General on the illegality of law enforcement. [[SLAUTA, RIBAC, ZUBANOV]] Katerina SAMOLIK to the Attorney General on the facts of the release and implementation of the poor medical medicine “Ascorbinic Acid” of the production of a limited liability “DniproFarm” with no documents of the Ministry of Health. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the Attorney General for the protection of the constitutional rights of a citizen of Kucherenka. Mr. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General for violating the previous investigation procedure of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Odessa area. John GAVRILUK to the Attorney General on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request and the parliamentary appeal for a complaint from the Director of the private agricultural company Chance Plus Jaremka. Victor KYRILLOVA to the Attorney General for bribes in the Luhansk district government. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General on the misconduct of officials of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster in Headship. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General’s Office regarding the introduction of a criminal trial in the order of exclusive conduct. RAISES OF BOHATIR AND LARIS POLICO to the Attorney-General on the verification of the results of the Court of Auditors' audit on the use of State budget funds allocated to provide preventive and medical measures to overcome the tuberculosis epidemic in 2002-2004. Valery CONONOVA to the Attorney-General on the acquisition of party property and the use of a service position to prevent the activities of the Luhansk Regional Organisation of the “Trudova Ukraine” political party as the deputy head of the Luhansk District Council of Holenko. Catherine SAMOLIK to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the situation around the area of the Sport and Health Complex of the Herson Higher School of Physical Culture, located in the territory of the Yaltin City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the legal assessment of the beating by co-workers of the protection firm Chris, women officials and employees of the production cooperative of the Hersonagro project. IOFFE to the Attorney-General on the legality of detention and detention in the investigative isolation of the Secretary of the Dolin Paradise SDPU(O) of the Kirovograd region. VADIM MISSURA to the Attorney-General for an objective, impartial examination of the request to bring officials to justice of the magazine “The Minister of Taxation of Ukraine” guilty of gross violations of legislation. JURIA DIDENKA to the Attorney General for the abuse of officials at the Novobus Cannery Plant of the Mikolai district when it was sold and ignored by law enforcement authorities. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the Attorney General on the return to the property of the Sport and Health complex “Change” in Yalta Beach and adjacent territory. Jury CARMAZIN to the Attorney-General, President of the National Academy of Sciences, the Presidium of the National Academy of Sciences for the Violation of Interested Officials of the National Academy of Constitutional Rights of Citizens for Work and Health, as a result of the illegal capture of the Children's Health Medical Complex of the “Wimpel” Medical and Prophylactic Complex “Feofania”. A group of deputies to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister for the illegal removal from office of the Vinnicki City Head and for the discharge of the post of Head of the Vinnicki District State Administration of Dombrowski. [[SOOLOV, KARNAUH, KOSIOV]] EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General for the review of the recruitment of staff of the County Hospital for Disabled Persons and Repressed Ternopil District for abuse of office as head of the institution. GMIR to the Attorney General for dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request for violations of the legislation and constitutional rights of citizens by the chief editor of the newspaper Magistral. Kirila POLIČUKA to the Attorney General for violations of the safety of shipping in Ukraine’s waters. Alexander MARCHENKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Board on the unlawful involvement of members of the police and prosecutors of the cities of Herson, Feodosia and Jankoa in the activities of the Freedom charity. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice for the Non-execution of the Court's Decision on the complaint of the Public Organisation “The Society of Disabled Workers” of the holding company Paulo Grad Wrought. Vladimir ZAJIJA to the Attorney General, Head of the Cherkas District Public Administration, on the payment of salaries to the employees of the “Photoprilad” plant. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister for Construction, Architecture and Housing for Gross Violations by the City Council of the Kyiv Region of Constitutional Rights of Peoples of the Buildings on Kyivska Street and Krávenka Street. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Minister of Transport and Communications, Head of the Suma District State Administration, for the prevention of the liquidation of the Tubdispancer of the Konotap station railway hospital and for the transfer of him to the Conotapian Central District Hospital in Sumsk district. Valery BORZOVA to the Ministry of Health, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, regarding the improper medical care of residents of the Fastew and Zguriv regions. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister for Economic Affairs on the organization of work with the state-owned company JELDORRestaurant and the failure of the court to execute its decision on the repayment of arrears of wages. Larissa UZAČANKO to the Minister for Education and Science, Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing on the conditions for the upbringing and training of children at the University of Mirotin in the province of Dulbunovo. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Board, Head of the Public Prosecutor, on the verification of the functioning of an organized criminal group. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Health regarding the fate of the disabled at Zaporozhye district clinic who suffer from renal insufficiency. Oleg BESPALOVA to the Minister of Education and Science, responsible for the commitment of the Head of the Budget Committee to finance from the payout budget to pedagogical, scientific and other categories of teaching staff under Article 57 of the Education Act, taking into account the level of inflation. Group of deputies to the Minister of Fuel and Energy for the threat of energy crisis in Ukraine. [[KOMAR, VASILEV, KRUGLOV, AND OTHERS]] MICHELLE MELNIKA to the Ministry of Defense for Repaying Military Personnel’s Reservoir. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Minister of Agrarian Politics for an extraordinary state of crisis that took place in an agricultural enterprise in the Odessa region. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Minister of Defence regarding the unsatisfying response of the leadership of the Head of Housing and Exploitation and the Muchakov Housing and Exploitation Department to the family of former military personnel from the town of Beregovo Zakarta. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Minister of Agriculture Policy, Minister of Finance for Payment of Remuneration on Wage Pay to Workers of the Valley Solventory. Larissa VAZANKO to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports for the provision of affordable treatment for children with a painful dose. Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Ministry of Health for the attempt to close the Novostrelstian Hospital in the Jewish district of Lviv. Ms. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister for Family, Youth and Sports about providing information on the adoption of orphans by foreign citizens. Alexander KAMENYA to the Ministry of Health regarding the protection of the population from the harmful effects of noise during construction and repair work in residential buildings. Jury DYDENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the delay in investigating a criminal case based on the assassination of the former head of the National Stock Exchange Holding Company, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Minister of Justice regarding the improper execution by the Cherkasian City Executive Service of the Lord’s Court’s decision. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI to the Ministry of Health for the collective appeal of women, health workers, and City Council deputies to provide medical equipment for the city’s gynecological department and other health institutions. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General for the robbery of the Vice President of the Ukrainian Social Guarantee Fund of the Armed Forces and veterans of the Armed Forces, Counsellor of the Defence Minister of Rajevski. Leonidas SERGEANT to the Minister of Fuel and Energy, the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the environmental situation that threatens the life and health of the population of the Taramsk city of Dnipropetrovska. Ms. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Head of the Odessa District State Administration, for the failure to pay one - time cash for the birth of a child. Eugene Filindash to the Head of the Donetsk district government for violation of the right of a veteran of the Great Homeland War, a disabled group II for housing. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Head of the Czerka District State Administration on the gasification of the village of Katerinopil in the Cherkas region. JEREMY TO the Head of Simferopol’s District State Administration for the solution of Akishova’s housing problems. Anton KISSE to the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market for violations during the privatisation of the Open Stock Exchange Company of the Arcis Renovation and Transportation Company of Odessa Region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Head of the Supreme Court on the appeal of a citizen named Ermolenko. Leonida KADENUKA to the Head of the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration for the purpose of halting funding from the State Budget for the release of Zorile Bukovney. [[“Zora Bukovini”]] John MIHOVIĆA to the Head of the Zacarpathian district administration for the protection of the rights and conditions for the education of Roma children in the town of Vinogradovo Zakarpatsky. Igor YUCHNOVSKI to the Kyiv City Head, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Minister of Education and Science for the Inadmissibility of Construction in the Territory of the Kyiv National University of Technology and Design and the Needs for Resting Area in the Region. Valentina MATWEYEVA to Kiev City Head on improving the living conditions of the family of a veteran of work, a preschool teacher, No. 418. VICTOR ANTEMUCA to the Head of the Vinnick district government to improve sanitation and ecology in the village of Sosonka in the Winnicki district. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Head of the Supreme Court, Minister of Justice for the purpose of addressing the inhabitants of Mirgorod Poltavsk district of Morinz regarding the gravity of the case. OLEXIUKA to the Head of the U.S.A. on misuses in the area of holographic protection of documents and goods and compliance with the licensing conditions for the activities listed. Mr Wojša to the Head of the Department of State for the enforcement of penalties for the debt owed to a company with limited responsibility for the services rendered. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Head of the State Committee on Forestry for Wheel and Hussen Technology in Forestry. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Head of the U.S.A. about information on the blackmail of Ukrainian politicians by the Russian Federation in order to put them in the service of Russia’s interests. VADIM MISSURA to the Kiev City Head on the threat to life and health of the people unable to live on the street of the Saperno-Sloby Pass. VALLERY TO THE Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the prevention of violation of the rights of residents in the construction of a residential complex on Shamrill Street. Yulia IOFFE to the Head of the Wallin County Administration for the increase in passenger fares within the area. FIXA to the Head of the Sevastopol City Public Administration for the unsatisfactory work of city housing and utility services in the Balaklav district. Mr. Mikoli Katherinczuk to the Head of the Poltava District Administration, Head of the Poltava District Council for the Renaissance of the Holy Uspen Cathedral in the city of Kremenchuk. SERGEANT ŽIŽKA to the prosecutor of Kiev for failure to comply with court decisions and violations of urban legislation. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Prosecutor of the Cherniewec Region for the violation of legislation by the management of a limited-liability association “Bregomet Forest Company” of the Visniki district of Cherniewec region in part of the payroll calculations. OLEXIJUCA’S branch to the prosecutor of Kiev for the purpose of delaying the investigation of misuses in the area of holographic protection of documents and goods and of complying with the licensed conditions for the conduct of the listed activity. Victor MIRONENANKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Education and Science on the need for the preservation of the Kerchen Educational and Advisory Centre of Kharkiv Economic and Legal University of Internal Affairs. JANUARY to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Health, for the provision of medical care and for the immediate allocation of funds for the treatment of the resident of the village of Kondratiev Jankoj district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Music of Mikli Viktorovich. Thus, honourable colleagues, 118 parliamentary inquiries have been made. Factions: Communists – 26, “Regions of Ukraine” – 15, National Party – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 9, BUT – 4, SPU – 9, UNODC – 6, SDPU(o) – 21, National Block – 2, “Trust of the People” – 3, “Reforms and Order” – 5, “One Ukraine” – 3, “Industry and Entrepreneurs – no, National Movement of Ukraine – 6, “Afterfraction” – 4. Let's move on to the speeches of the national MPs with statements, reports, queries, information. 30 minutes. George Boiko, Communist faction. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u2	George Boiko, Communist faction. I give the floor to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u3	Thank you, Georgi Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Cibenko, Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today is the next anniversary of the birth of one of the prominent generals of the victory of Mikoli Fedorovich Vatutina. It is bitter and painful that today, in the 1960s, the year of the Great Victory over Fascism, in the year of veterans, the flowers at the foot of the monument placed only representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine. And it's not surprising, because in today's bourgeois-nationalist power, it's a very different priority today: they think of UN-UPA soldiers who shot Vatutina and his fighting brothers in the back. The second thing I'd like to say is, my dear colleagues. Yesterday, the State Budget of Ukraine voted. He was not accepted in the second reading. You know, I'm not surprised at this because for three months while the budget was within the framework of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine has consistently done so that this document, even after the improvement of its budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will not be accepted. And clearly, why? Because it is highly desirable to use the funds of Ukraine’s state budget as its own electoral wallet for the purposes envisaged for the political forces that are part of the government. How can we vote in favour of the financial constitution of a country in which the so-called increase in the minimum wage is based on a basic pension, not even covering inflationary processes. Because it's clear to everyone that tomorrow's 350 is much less than today's 322 bracelets. How can we vote in favour of this document, which does not eliminate the imbalance in the pension insurance of military pensioners? For even after the changes made to this article by the budget committee, article 38.1. I am no longer saying that the Government is consistently conducting a non-implementation course as a valid document of the Law on the Social Protection of War Children. It is all the more surprising that in their time as deputies both Mr. Yushchenko and Mr. Yehanurov voted in favour of this document. Today they are destroying it. Because it's quite clear that what they call compromise today is not really such a compromise. Because Ukraine's youngest citizen, who refers to it, is now a retired child of war, so he already has the right to travel in public transport. And to pretend that this is being done as a compromise is just inappropriate. The Communist faction requires a substantial improvement in this document for the people of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u4	Igor Mikhailovich Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Get ready, Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u5	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The situation in the domestic oil and gas complex is, unfortunately, recognized as a deep crisis. This is the result of irresponsible state policy in relations with strategic, energy partners of the Russian Federation and Turkmenistan. Further delay in solving the problem threatens Ukraine’s energy security and then its sovereignty. The parliamentary faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party claims. [[united]] The state of crisis in the country's oil and gas complex became primarily due to, firstly, the unprofessional nature of most of the newly appointed fuel and energy managers. The other one. Their self-removal from solving the most pressing problems. Third. Their focus is on loud statements and assurances against petty work for the life of anticrisis, and they are directly related to the violation of current legislation and corruption. The faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine of the United States has constantly warned the Ukrainian society and the higher leadership of the state about the damage of the fuel-energy-based faction. First of all, it is through parliamentary inquiries, including the name of the President of Ukraine. To our conviction, the tangible impact on the fuel-energy system of the state has been caused by the activity of a special figure of the Ukrainian politics of the direct NAC leader Naftogaz Ukraine, Mr. Yvchenk, the head of the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party is another emphasis. [[united]] Under the leadership of Ivchenka NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” carries out a openly destructive financial and credit policy. Expert analyses indicate that the financial situation of the company at the moment is critical. And the company’s involvement in large foreign loans is often unaccounted for. NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine”, its leader is already threatening the loss of the domestic gas transport system and the bankruptcy of the company itself. Society must be alarmed. Because the likely bankruptcy of such a company as Naftogaz Ukraine is the collapse of strategic sectors of the economy. Under the conditions indicated, under obvious threats to the national security of the State, its sovereignty is not understood by the position of superior leadership of a state that not only does not respond to dangerous trends properly but also maintains all possible means in key positions of professionally unfit people. The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine of the United States calls on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to use the constitutionally defined control function and to listen to information from the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine about the financial, economic, personnel policy and preparations for the autumn-winter heating season of 2005-6 years. The relevant draft decree is prepared by the faction and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. I think we need to listen to Yvchenk, not Minister Placzkov, because Ivchenko is the deputy minister who provoked this whole situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u6	Rabbit, faction of the People's Party. Prepare John the Rabbit instead of Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u7	Victor Rabbit, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, sevastopols, I wish to draw your attention today to the unprecedented decision of the Ministry of Defence to destroy the socio-cultural sphere in the town of Sevastopol, in particular, despite the repeated treatment of the city council, the physical, sporting public of the city to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, on the intention to sell one of the oldest and only stadiums in the city of Sevastopol of the Ukrainian Navy. Such intentions are carried out and are put on auction. This solution today will lead to the destruction of the only sports stadium in the town of Sevastopol, with more than 400,000 inhabitants. Today, I would like to point out that, on our part, there have also been repeated proposals to transfer this facility to the property of the city's communal, communal property, so that it can be used for the benefit of the Sebastopols, for the benefit of the city. And such appeals by the city administration, the city council, were addressed to the Ministry of Defence. I wish to draw your attention to you today, my distinguished colleagues, and to address and consider an official request to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence and the Head of the State Property Fund for the suspension of such actions and the decision to comply with those requests of the City Council, to retain this facility in the territorial property of the city of Sevastopol, which will serve, first and foremost, the upbringing and the growing generation, to create the necessary conditions for a physical culture from sport in the town of Hero Sevastopol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u8	John the Hare instead of Valerius the Assadchev. Get ready for the girl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u9	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party is very concerned that a number of very serious, specific problems in the education sector are being brought to the attention of the government and the parliament. There is much to be said about how to evaluate the students ’ knowledge, but no one thinks about how to improve the real conditions of schooling and the work of teachers. This is especially true of the teaching conditions of schoolchildren and the working conditions of teachers in rural areas. These are the problems that have not been solved for decades and that have now essentially led to a war between government authorities and school principals. First, quite often, sanepidestants present perfectly fair requirements for the quality of the student’s diet, and this is good. But on the other hand, how can you provide sanitation when you don't have a separate bathroom at school for washing dishes, I don't talk about washing cars anymore. The very bad things about schooling are the right dishes. To be honest, schools are provided with low - quality containers, often unfavourable. Inadequate vessels are very often beaten, and the cost of filling them is not allocated. The other one. Very often, government - controlled authorities tend to claim school principals because students sit behind parties that do not match the growth of students, which leads to premature fatigue, weakens their health. They don't really know in the Ministry of Education or in the Cabinet of Ministers or in Parliament that most schools haven't been updated by parties for decades. I don’t remember such deliveries to schools that would be oriented toward individual growth of an individual student. Third. It's like five-year-old kids, the authorities just waved their hand because there's no way to provide them with books, especially in Ukrainian, parties, appropriate standards, devices. Four walls, kids and a teacher, that's all the provision of the education and education process of five-year-olds. Four. Large fair claims are presented to the directors of rural education schools. Once again, this problem requires considerable financial support from the State to buy those lamps and pay for the electricity consumed. But if there was money for it, so this problem wouldn't have been solved anyway, because the rooms are old and the wiring just can't handle that kind of load. Fifth. Very bad things about providing schools with sports equipment, maintaining sports facilities. Six. Problems in schools. Most of the schools are built, as the story says, long ago. In some places it might be possible to improve the facilities by transferring the infrastructure to schools. Finally, I want to draw attention to the problem of external student testing. Tests must be published immediately so that the students can prepare for them in advance. After all, in rural areas there are no computers or conditions for further training, and there are no educational disciplines. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party believes that the Parliament's Budget Committee, the Ministry of Education, the Cabinet of Ministers should form an education budget in such a way as to significantly improve the teaching of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u10	Alexander. Omelyan Pussy, I'm sorry, the Communist faction. Get ready for Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u11	I beg your pardon to pass the word to Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u12	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u13	Thank you very much. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Today, a parliamentary request was made by Ukrainian deputies Solomonin and Shurma to the President of Ukraine regarding the ignorance of proposals and the failure to provide information and response to the request of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of establishing the illegal interference of a citizen of the Russian Federation with refugee status in Britain of Berezovo Boris Abramovich in financing the election campaign of candidate for President of Ukraine, Mr. Viktor Andryovich. Unfortunately, however, he won support for this request only 162 votes, mostly factions of Communists, Social Democrats and the “Regions of Ukraine”. [[United]] I mean, I didn't get the required number of votes 226. What's the matter? What's the matter? The need for Parliament's control function is due to the problem of illegal, hidden foreign intervention in financing Ukraine's electoral campaign, which was carried out prior to the 2004 presidential election campaign in the form of financing non-state, not government, which exists on foreign land. The preceding parliamentary elections in 2006 are also a topical issue. Open sources of information published in September 2005 revealed the fact that the citizens of the Russian Federation of Berezovsky, so - called the promotion of democracy in Ukraine, and the development of institutions called civil society during the 2004 presidential elections, were funding. In doing so, the funding was in favour of the opposition candidate of President Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich. The purpose of the work of the Ukrainian Interim Investigation Commission is to establish the legality of such actions. The commission therefore invited and heard from the National Deputy Ukraine, the first President of Ukraine, Kravčuk Leonid Makarović, the ex-Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the election headquarters of the Immortal Roman Petrovic, the other active persons of the election headquarters of Zvania, Tretjak. Sadly, she refused to meet the TSC and to give testimony to Mrs. Timoshenko, Julia Volodymyrna. We have written to the President of Ukraine with certain questions, but until now he has not answered our call. The appeal of the Interim Investigation Commission remains unresponsive. In this regard, on the basis of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, Mr. Shurma and I addressed the President of Ukraine. And I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, once again to put our request to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u14	Mironenko instead of Nosenko, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Komara instead of Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u15	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Mironenko. Respectable compatriots! The President, the Government of Ukraine did not support the requirement of the Communist faction concerning Gosbudget, economic development, job creation and foreign policy. As a result, the situation in the economy is deteriorating that we see everything already. And when the communists demanded Ukraine's entry into the Single Economic Area, its refusal to join NATO, we warned, because Russia is a strategic partner, asking for its wishes to be taken into account. However, the President and the Government have refused to take Russia's wishes into account, but at the same time, world prices demand low prices. World gas prices are established legally. It is precisely the current foreign policy of our State, the anti-national policy. Can the people of Russia actually date the economy of Ukraine by being insulted at their addresses? It should have been suggested that a nationalist should be sent as a negotiator who categorically opposes the creation of a single economic space and advocates Ukraine's entry into NATO, which would undoubtedly seek the economy of Ukraine, but would also ensure some confrontation between Ukraine and Russia. The Communist faction recalled that such policies would legally lead not only to a deterioration of relations but also to a rise in gas prices. This will legally lead to an increase in prices for everyone, a deterioration in the economic situation. And everyone understands that. And it is time for the President and the Government of Ukraine to end this criminal policy, which is a daily disaster to the people. The faction of the Compartium of Ukraine requires that all that the Communists have introduced with regard to the State Budget Act 2006 be taken into account and that the confrontation policy of relations with Russia be terminated, that Ukraine enter the Single Economic Area, which will ensure both economic growth and the improvement of the standard of living of the people. The faction of Communists requires that they finally listen to the voice of the people, to the wishes of the people and not deceive them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u16	Mikola Komar, please “Regions of Ukraine”. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u17	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Party of the Regions warns you of the intention of the current authorities to enter your pockets to force you to pay for her mistakes. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has reviewed the Kabmin tariff growth schedule for electricity and gas for all categories of consumers. A party of regions warns citizens that if the authorities can implement their plans, electricity tariffs for the population will increase by 20 percent by 1 quarter 2006 and gas by a quarter. But that is not all. Orange officials promise to continue raising tariffs by 10 percent each quarter. Here is such a New Year's “gift” prepared for the “little Ukrainians” of today's government, showing how indifferent it is to the interests of ordinary citizens. [[in quotes]] [[Also in paws]] Without realizing that wearing orange ties was not enough for professional government leadership, the Midan authorities could not think of anything smarter to cover up their helplessness than raising prices for the population. Not only did the oranges show their nonprofessionalism in negotiations with Russia on gas prices, as the previous speaker spoke about, but they also decided to play with the voters by fueling anti - Russian sentiments. And the payment for these steps lies with citizens and businesses, especially chemical and metallurgical ones, who suffer the most from rising energy prices. Without a long - term strategy for the country’s development, the authorities were once again engrossed in touching holes. She does not realize that even by extracting the last juice from a semi-contaminated economy, she will not be able to hide her incompetence and helplessness. This policy leads to an increase in Ukraine’s dependence on other countries, not on the intelligence and employability of the Ukrainian people. We urge the country’s leadership not to translate the burden of artificially created problems on the people’s shoulders, to display wisdom and pragmatism in resolving the gas dispute, and to avoid political radicalism in purely economic matters. The “Regions” party is strongly protesting the shocking rise in gas and electricity prices for the population and industry planned by the new authorities since early 2006. We condemn attempts to make the economic problems of today's government a problem of the survival of millions of ordinary citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u18	Zara Katusheva. Anatoly to Orzhachowski is given the right to speak. Please prepare the Davimucci.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u19	Dear colleagues. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. In recent times on our political olympus, we have heard numerous statements, assurances, from which there is nothing more than helplessness, irresponsibility and attempts to harass the neighbors. The latter were Ukraine’s conflicts with Uzbekistan and Russia on gas issues. The faction of Ukraine's Company considers it irresponsible to note by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Ukraine stopped its participation in the SND mission, refusing to invite representatives from neighbouring countries to the parliamentary elections. I am confident that today’s nonprofessional authorities will not stop at claims such as the need to build a nuclear shelter in Chernobyl or the hastyness of its manufacturer’s surrender through unprofessional measures to combat avian influenza, the introduction to WTO. The desire to raise the image of the President and of “Our Ukraine” has led to restrictive measures on exportation of domestic products from Europe and WTO. True, the new Ukrainian liberal elite is demonstrating a position both of historical nihilism and of contempt for its people. Instead of impressing the world with achievements for the benefit of parents, it follows a course of destruction with the tactics of the burned - out earth. Under Soviet rule, the population was confidently moving to improve living conditions. Today, under orange rule, the traffic line went much faster. There are already voices that it was unnecessary to allow people to privatize apartments, and today they are looking for ways to find a mechanism that can be used to take citizens into their homes and transfer them into private hands. Here's the whole Ukrainian democracy. Mrs. Yushchenko and Yehanurov criticize Belarus and its leaders. You'd learn to farm in your neighbors. Because there's an increase of 17-18%. In 2004, Belarus sold only 24,000 of its tractors to the United States. It solves its own economic problems positively without joining the EU and, unlike us, is a self - sufficient country. The UN has taken them to developed countries, but we are to the dying. Belarus does not create problems for its neighbors, nor does it claim to be their territory, nor does it claim to be their own path of development. What can you not say about us when calls for a change in the present system of things in a sovereign state are being made at the highest level? We can’t tell ourselves, either, the basic order, and others we try to teach them how to live. And all of this is for the sake of the Western hosts. Mr. Yushchenko, Yehanurov, and your entire orange team should know that Ukraine's economic resuscitation depends directly on increased cooperation with Russia and other SND countries. Economic cooperation with the West is secondary and has only an additional function, since it is designed to provide raw materials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u20	Jaroslav Kenzior, please, instead of Davimukka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u21	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honorable Fellows of the People's Parliament, the Honourable Voters, all who are now listening to the speeches of the National Deputies of Ukraine, must be under the impression that this is not a meeting of the Supreme Council, but a meeting of the Russian Duma. Because all the problems, all the speeches that would relate to the problems of Ukrainian-Russian relations with gas supply, here today in the speeches of the Communists, Esdeks, Regions -- the absolute position of the Russian parliamentarian, where Ukraine is being swindled, the Ukrainian authorities are being vilified, the authorities are being accused of being unprofessional, as if they were fueled by anti-Russian sentiments in Ukraine. It was understood that the non-professionality of power here was replaced by the fact that the Ukrainian authorities had finally become real advocates of Ukraine's national interests and did not want to be just a Cossack in the interests of political Russia. For some reason these distinguished gentlemen, who care for and protect Russia and Russian interests, do not say that Russia should also move to international prices, to international tariffs, when required by us, to transport gas, based on the Russian Black Sea fleet, to distribute once the only allied property. None of them mention that Russia needs to be forced to return 136 billion of our citizens' stolen savings to Ukraine. None of them say that Russia, as a successor to the Soviet Union, has committed terrible crimes against the Ukrainian people, destroying millions of Ukrainians, has to pay, compensate for all these losses to the Ukrainian state and to the Ukrainian people, as the Jews of today’s Germany did. And so, the venerable halloweens of the Moscow Empire, the people will give you an assessment. Because everyone understands whose interests you stand for. In short, the Ukrainian Parliament should eventually have all these accounts, the claims to be presented to Russia in honour of the Ukrainian Parliament, at least this part that cares about Ukraine, should be addressed to Russia and presented to them with these accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u22	Vasil Calinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u23	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, our faction of the People's Party, the People's bloc of Lithuania, has repeatedly drawn the attention of government officials to urgent issues. There are two categories of people in the country who need constant attention and assistance. These are children and older people, especially disabled people. In many cases, how are their daily problems solved? Let me give you some specific examples. At my personal reception, I received an application from citizens of Minaev Ivan Ivanovich, a resident of a townlike village called John of Odessa. He's a member of the battles of the Great Homeland War, the disabled of the first group. For the debt of electricity, I want to emphasize, just 18 bracelets, by the way, which no one can explain how it came about, it's off-duty to the house. The district court, where the veteran had turned, had stalled the case. The appeal to the High Court of Appeal did not work either. He now appeals to the national deputy to resolve the question of the completion of the court proceedings regarding the payment of moral and material damage as a result of a mundane, callous attitude toward his service duties as a member of the Rés. Or a second example. Re-appealing a voter from a city-type village called Ivanovka from a citizen named Martinenko Maria Ivanovna. I quote literally. “Please assist in receiving my mother’s contribution, a participant in the National War, 93 years old. In Savings, it has 3,000, 240 dollars, minimum pension, the cost of medicines.” And the next call from Citizen Bodnar Zinaida Ivanovni of the village of Perkrestovo Frunzewski district. This is a longtime mother, a retired woman, who is sick. Please return its deposits for house gasification. By the way, in this same population, 9 members of the battles of the Homeland War who have no money to pay for the gasification of their homes. It is essential that all of these issues be resolved in Kiev through the Supreme Council of Ukraine, through the national MPs, because the legislative base is sufficient. Why, then, is the executive authority in the center, and where does it not take place? Why is it so heartless, I would say, an immoral attitude toward our elderly veterans, wartime participants, war invalids and laborers? Please consider my statement as a request to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich and to address the questions raised, to inform the questions raised. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, time is up. Here's the announcement I'd like to hear. According to Part 4.2, two regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am informing you of the creation of an interfractional association “Our Ukraine” consisting of the faction of the political party “National Union “Our Ukraine”, the faction “National Movement of Ukraine” and the faction “Parties of industries and entrepreneurs of Ukraine”. We still have a dissatisfaction with the answer, so let's do it now, because all the documents and the dissatisfaction with the answer have been prepared. Mikola Rudzkowski, please. None. Andrew School, dissatisfaction with the answer. Will Andrew School be performing, or have you forgotten? Then there's Igor Shurma, please. And the storm's refusing?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u25	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I asked the MPs about paying for the work of young intern doctors after they graduated from higher education institutions, especially medical universities. So today, there's a bad practice where an intern doctor gets a certificate, a diploma goes to work, and as long as he gets a specialist doctor's certificate, he works a year and a year and a year and a half and doesn't get a single copy. I call this example for the reason that I tried to analyze what prompted the President of Ukraine on the day of his celebration on the Maidan Independence to say that corruption starts in the doctor's office. So I'd like to remind Mr. President, hoping that maybe he'll print it out for himself, remind him. If you think that corruption starts in the doctor's office, then the authority, including today's, is touching because the intern doctor goes to work and doesn't get a penny. And the President of Ukraine would have to know that this doctor needs at least transport to get to the workplace. Today we can say there's an explanation that there's no such money to pay intern doctors. They are not because there is a bad system for the distribution of young professionals after they have completed their studies at a higher education facility. I'd like to highlight one more. The deputy minister of finance, who was sitting on a profile committee, said that there could be no such thing as a young specialist receiving 380 dollars. So I have to say that the family doctor in the village gets 380 bracelets. Victor Andriyovich is still obliged to pay for gas, light, water, and then consider himself a local intelligence, the elite of that inhabited area. This is also due to the fact that there is a bad practice of getting young specialists to work at 0.5 and 0.25 bets. You can't survive for 120, 150 bucks, and that's in medicine. There is a discreditation of the diploma. And so under such circumstances, Victor Andryovich, you are obliged to apologize to the doctors for accusing them of corruption. Because no one is responsible for the reforms of your Minister Polishchuk. And you don't give him credit. And now, with regard to the speech of the previous speaker, there are MPs here who lobby for Russian interests. Those MPs, I want to say to the speaker, they want it to be warm, and you, Mr. MP, did not sit in your doghouse and freeze out there, knocked out by a foreign fan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u26	Yes, dear colleagues, let us move on to the consideration of matters according to the schedule of meetings. With regard to the suggestions made in the speeches made by the national deputies, I would ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. The report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of illegal arms and military property trafficking and their illegal transfer to other countries is under review. Report to the head of the commission of inquiry, Sinchenko Sergey Georgievicz, please. We agreed on it this way, dear colleagues. It's not like we're gonna have to report for seven minutes. Seven minutes, we've made our decision. Please, don't be ridiculous, you didn't want to report it, you have a special position right now. Reports are given to all, let them all read, honourable national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u27	Sergey Sinchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The following commission for the verification of arms and property trade is formed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the third year of independence. Only now is a public report on her work. For the first time, the former head of the commission of inquiry, Ignatenko, was deeply puzzled by the sharpness of the summary report prepared by the experts in 1998, even refused to deliver it. For him this was done by the commission’s secretary of the national deputy of Ukraine, Malevsky Alexander Thoković, second vocation. He also transferred written material to the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and he addressed some of the documents to the Attorney General. Since this was almost the last day before the completion of Parliament’s second vocation, the marked mass was not received, and it was printed only on the pages of some opposition newspapers. The Attorney General's Office has commissioned the commission's materials to verify the facts of their military unit, where they were buried safely after some imitation of the investigation. The second pillar of the Follower’s Trade in Arms of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was met by disaster. In the summer of 2000, the then majority of the commission headed by your humble servant was simply eliminated without any explanation. However, the reasons are on the surface when you carefully consider the materials that are given to you. The topic of the commission drew close to the scheme that Ostap Bender described as “the withdrawal and the introduction of the customer’s monetary marks, ” in this case from the State’s execution. Activators at that time were people who were closer to the superior leadership of the country. Many of them continue to do so, and under today’s authority, they have only changed the host. Some comments on the written report. You can see what a colossal arsenal of weapons and material values came to Ukraine as a legacy of the Soviet Union: nine thousand tanks, 11 thousand. Bronemashine, 18,000. artillery systems, up to three thousand nine hundred aircraft and helicopters, full rocket armadas, 176 intercontinental ballistic missiles with their strategic nuclear warheads and separate approximately two thousand 883 units of tactical and tactical nuclear warheads. Strategic military bases and warehouses contained huge stockpiles of weapons, military equipment, food, ammunition and other military assets, designed to provide at least five military fronts with a 10-million-dollar army. Foreign sources estimated the cost of all of this to be 89 billion. United States dollars. The left side of all this wealth was sold out, stretched out, exported, including abroad in 1992-1997. Like one famous movie hero said, it's all stolen from us. This was facilitated by the absence of any law governing arms exports. The laws were replaced by presidential decrees, government decrees, including those that were closed. Stolen, sold for a price of more than $32 billion. It's for some official research. The time for the uncontrolled arms trade in Ukraine came in 1996 when the trade was accepted. Took part in about 114 firms. In chapter 3 of the report that you have been issued, the “Unsullied Sale” gives an example of participation in this process and our brother, the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is still the first democratic, as it is called, calling. But the main task of the commission of inquiry was to investigate the situation of illegal arms transfers, ammunition, dual-use items to countries where there are military conflicts, human rights violations, and Ukraine’s obligations as a member of the international organizations of the United Nations, the OSCE, a group of nuclear suppliers of the Wassenar Accord, that is, in areas where the international image of Ukraine is at risk. The first violations -- read chapter 4 of the report -- involved the supply of large arms in Croatia and Muslims in Bosnia. Clearly, this was not at the official level. Arms supplies were carried out in the shadow sector and, according to experts, they were politically motivated and motivated only by financial considerations. At that time, it was different. Only 20 percent of the arms trade operations at the time were carried out by organizations officially authorized by the State, the rest in the hands of shadow structures. The strict secrecy of the number and designation of organizations that were entitled to arms trade allowed Ukraine to have a significant shadow sector. All that was going on in this regard in the state was well known by only one person, the former Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Mr. Gorbulin. One of the topical topics that the commission has been working on, which still needs further study, is the issue of accounting with the Russian Federation for nuclear weapons charges that have been exported to Russia and getting an answer to the main question about their real quantity and cost. The difference between Ukraine’s number and Russia’s nuclear warheads consisted of 250 units. These are the records of our commission. We have all the types of military warheads on these issues. The other one. It's the cost of a tactical and tactical weapon exported to Russia, which, by the way, could be at warehouses without any particular cost by 2010. The estimated cost is $450 million. Our experts valued about a half billion dollars. Only five years after the removal from Ukraine of tactical nuclear weapons between the governments of the Russian Federation and Ukraine, an agreement was signed on October 30, 1997, on a mutual debt charge for energy supplies and fissile materials. This was the beginning of the next criminal epepoch, but already with active persons. The rules don't allow me to continue to analyze everything you've written about is in the report. There is a cut, an extension of all the issues that the commission of inquiry dealt with. I'll just tell you what I'm offering. First. We propose to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the lack of organizational measures to stop the definition of abuse of arms control and property of the Ministry of Defence and other military formations. Determining the necessary introduction into the functions of the State Property Fund for the sale of military towns and the lease of basic funds for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. To draw attention to the lack of monitoring of international obligations to prohibit or restrict military and technical cooperation with individual states in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. And the Attorney General of Ukraine is obliged to make sure that his subjects are justified and legitimate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u28	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Ten minutes. Yes, please, George Buiko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u29	After listening to your report, Sergei Grigorovitch is saddened that the arms and property trade and smuggling of the Ministry of Defense have reached such an extent that it is only a wonder why we have done nothing before. You've pointed out that in fact, the official government organizations that did trade did not do more than 20% of the operations, but all the other shadow structures. What should we do? Why is the Attorney General silent? Why is our commission in charge silent? Why not one criminal case involving the theft of arms and property by the Ministry of Defense has not been brought to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u30	I tell you, and you give an example of when, on a different point, did it end, any criminal case resonating with the court? There are no such examples. I'm going to give you an example of this, well, in the action plan of the Attorney General's Office. The gas brokers between Ukraine and the Russian Federation were not only state-owned structures, but even football clubs – the KIC of Kiev. They stole government property worth 42 million dollars. They were expelled, released from the position of investigator, which led to the end of these crimes, and the trial did not take place. And now the Attorney General's Office, in answer to this question, listen carefully, writes: “In the course of the investigation, a criminal case has been committed against the fact that more than $42 million of U.S. government property has been seized by undetermined persons in 2000 in the settlement between NAK Naftogaz Ukraine and Inter-International Energy for the natural gas provided and the present investigation is ongoing.” I mean, they don't know who stole that money. There are contracts, there are criminal materials, just no one wants to see it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u31	Boris Rykov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Sergey Grigoryevich, it is known that all the materials of the interim investigation committees of the 13th and 14th Committees on Arms Trade have been handed over to the interim commission of inquiry. Please inform us that at least one of the reasoning facts has been completed since then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u33	There's a lot of evidence. These are all the materials that I gave you in the report, they basically apply, most of them refer to the previous years. There have been many criminal cases, many of them. In particular, we went to the Attorney General's Office for the disarming of the 43rd Missile Army. This was the largest missile army in the Soviet Union, where strategic nuclear forces were based. This is a book called Zero Option, written by journalist Anatoly Benj and military counter-intelligence Colonel Peter Tvarun. Here's all the material on 470 pages is a criminal case. She's in the Attorney General's office. What else? On our initiative. What else, please tell us, is needed for our law enforcement officers to complete the examination and bring the materials to trial? I think they're just getting involved, politics getting involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u34	Anton Ruzicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u35	Anton Ruzicki, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine”. Please give the floor to the Deputy Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u36	Please, Katerinczuk Mikoli's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u37	I have a question for you. Please tell me that you have been dealing with this problem for almost a long time. And I'm convinced that all these facts that you're stressing today could probably be a court case. As a national MP, I think you're able to put this information in court and gain the status of fact. Because right now some of the national MPs were in there doing the Ministry of Defense smuggling weapons. This accusation is very serious. And I'd like you to answer that very question today, is the Ministry of Defense involved in arms smuggling today, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u38	Well, I think you, as a lawyer, realize that the expression that the Ministry of Defense is involved in smuggling is absolutely illiterate, not a legal answer. To say that the officials of the Department of Defense are not involved, no, like, co-workers of this process, I can't. Without them, no such, no international treaty goes through, but with regard to the first chapter of the questions that you said, I propose and, in principle, we have written it down. Let's send the files of the commission of inquiry to the Attorney General's Office one more time and then we'll track them down and try even here to check what the Attorney General has done to keep them from being buried with these materials. I absolutely agree with you to prove them in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u39	Vitaly Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u40	Thank you. Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u41	Please, it's Oleg Belarus's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u42	Sergey Grigorovich, your report is too serious for this report to be closed and tied to a knot. Why don't you suggest we set up a special tribunal to investigate these crimes? $33 billion sold out government property, no cash, no money went to the State Budget. Do you answer the question of where the money was being shared, who stole it? And don't you make a mistake when you say politics? It's not politics, it's a mafia of equal state corruption, which has grown with the mafia of business. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u43	Oleg Grigorovich, I agree 100% with your proposal that even a tribunal is needed for all of our materials, but I'll tell you, the authorities are changing, and the law enforcement authorities are changing, too. And one team came in, so everything, temporarily frozen the case, another team came in, freezes the others, raises the others. Now there is no objection to just one fact, for Paul Lazarus. He's being investigated, he's fine, he's not bothering anyone, he's not "resisting," let's say. And if you call at least one policy that you really have, we all know that there are materials to bring to justice -- you won't call it. Because it's really politics and our courts work that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u44	George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u45	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party Sergey Grigorovich, I'm looking at the chapter of your report, the twenty-first Military Transport Aviation, there's virtually no information here. So I'm officially telling you that in 1992 there was the largest group of military-transport aircraft in Ukraine, 192 airplanes. Think about the figure: 192 planes, including those “IL-76” planes, are brand new fighter planes. So for the time being, if there are three dozen planes that are on the wing, they say, that's very good. Where did the rest of the planes go, who was using them, where they went, who was pushing that number of aircraft on military-transport aircraft, who was specifically responsible? The facts are, people are alive, it wasn't done by one person, it was done by a whole circle of people, responsible officials and materials that could be obtained legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u46	I agree, but only under this section of Military Transport Aviation must we create a separate unit. In fact, I would suggest that we need a committee of our own in security and defence to be divided into two and one of the committees that deals with defence and KPC, to make a subcommittee that would follow up, to keep monitoring this issue. It's just that in a commission of inquiry where there's practically one head and plus an expert, we can't do that. And the function of the committee, the control function of the committee provides a more or less legal approach to this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u47	Stepan Davemuk
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u48	Stepan Davimuk, People’s Movement of Ukraine Dear Sergey Grigorovich! It is known that there were also military intelligence officers in state structures involved in the arms trade. Why do you think they were so deaf and blind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u49	Please tell me, could any supply from our country be made abroad without the control of the BSS? I don't think I could. So clearly those who work on these sites, they didn't just look through their fingers, they just contributed to the military disadvantages you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u50	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Have a seat, please. Yes, Your Honor, we have a draft Order No. 8601 on the results of the work of the Interim Investigation Commission on the verification of illegal arms trafficking, military property and their illegal transfer to other countries. I'm voting for a decision in general. Please vote. [[11:25:22]] For-179 Not accepted. We didn't make it. By factions, please let's take a look. "Regions of Ukraine" – 25, Communists – 34, National Party – 22, "Our Ukraine" – 14, Block Timoshenko -18, Socialists – 3, National Block -15, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Republic – 10, National Movement – 10, "Trust of the People" – 10, "One Ukraine" – 8, "Reforms and Orders" – 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, Postfraction – 8. Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. [[11:26:21]] For 283 We're back. I'm voting for a decision in general. [[11:26:42]] For 290 It's been decided. A report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being submitted. [[on the verification of the situation in Ukraine’s grain and bread market]] Reported to the co-chair of the commission, Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich. Please, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u51	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The interim commission of inquiry was established on April 3, 2003, during a period of fierce increase in the cost of bread and bread - making products and threats to food security in Ukraine. The Commission’s work was to verify the implementation of current legislation, to ensure public interest in the conduct of agrarian policies by executive authorities, and to verify possible abuses in the grain market. The main period of verification of the situation in the Ukrainian grain and bread market was 2002-2003, but the commission continued to carry out its monitoring functions for a further period. During the commission’s work, more than 100 replies were received from authorities, owners, public associations, and questions posed to the commission about the situation that arose in the Ukrainian grain and bread market. Appropriate procedural actions have been taken with respect to officials responsible for the agrarian bloc of the government in 2002-2003. One of the Commission’s priorities was price policy in the grain and bread market. Yes, the commission informs: starting in the year 98 after the abolition of the government's order for grain, the formation of agricultural and food volumes for public purposes and their implementation from state resources in accordance with the Cabinet's decree of 19.12. 97,832 “About urgent measures to stimulate the production and development of the grain market” should be done through the market-based commodity market, i.e. at market prices. In 2000, with the aim of stimulating the production of grain and the support of agricultural producers, a substantial reduction in the negative effects of seasonal and conjunctural price fluctuations on cereals and on-farm products was issued by Presidential Decree No. 832, which was entitled “About urgent measures to stimulate the production and development of the grain market”. A mechanism of fixed grain purchase, or added mechanism, was put in place directly. Above all, however, the lack of funds to finance mortgage operations and unattractive mortgage prices has hampered the development of mortgage purchases in 2000-2003. The factors that affected the price situation in the grain market in 99-2003 were different. Yes, the special feature of the commercial circulation of grain in the internal market between 99 and 2000, which led to price increases, was: the first, a significant reduction in the supply as a result of the decline in the gross harvest of grain and the reduction in its transitional surpluses; the second, active export operations with grain and the non-regulation of exports abroad. The trend in grain prices was also maintained in the first half of 2001. At the same time, there was an intensification of the market trade in grain related to the establishment of order and which export mechanisms were in place at the time. Factors affecting the pricing situation in the 2nd half of 2001 and 1-3th quarter of 2002 were: The rapid filling of the internal market with grain resources as a result of the receipt of high yields for 2 years; active implementation by agricultural producers of grains in the market in the first months after harvesting, the main reasons for which were efforts to obtain funds for bank accounts as soon as possible; the absence of effective mechanisms for State regulation of the cereals market. The above factors have led to a 30 - and - 20 - percent average decrease in prices for non-market grain crops. The rapid increase in grain exports since early 2003 has been influenced by favourable external conditions, insufficient demand from domestic consumers, and low domestic prices. The revitalization of export operations has spurred the rise in domestic grain prices by the end of 2002, early in 2003, which increased by more than 150 percent in the out-of-market market during this period. According to the State Committee on Statistics, there were in all categories of households. 30 million tons of grain was collected in 2002. The number of food grains used for food production was about 23 million. However, the old - fashioned mechanism of calculating the gross grain harvest leads to significant errors in its determination. In monitoring the state of food supply, the population of the Minagropolitics is overstated. increased by 9.3 million tons of crops in 2003, believing that the so - called households had gathered this number, they were added to the congregation. the gross grain harvest. This is 24 percent of the total, of the total. In addition, statistics on the building congregation have often been falsified. The results of the examination by the commission indicate that the adjectives regarding the gross grain harvest were complete in each area. Uncertain facts of abuse of officials have been revealed. 150 criminal cases have been violated. Reports were often distorted directly by the authorities of the State Department. The fact that false information about the scope of the 2002 Grains Meeting has been most evident in the statistical bodies in Odessa, Ravenska, Kharkiv, Cherkaske, Chernigiv. This situation continued after the 2001 - 2003 period. When there's a very large crop, there's always a low price, there's no public policy -- the situation is clear. When, on the contrary, there is no crop, prices go up, our country suffers. That's why we're proposing a draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u52	Thank you. Any questions? They will be. Come on, let's write it down. Vasil Vasilovich told us so clearly – what else is there to ask? Please, 10 minutes. Slatta. And this one knows what to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u53	Slata Victor, faction of the Ukraine Party. So I wanted to ask the reporter that the commission hasn't stopped its activity yet?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u54	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u55	No, it's not. So you've been doing this for a year now? Because we're back in 2002-2003. Once again, all the grain has been removed, at no cost to the state, and now 700, 750 dollars have already been shipped from ships that have not been unloaded. And you remember, then one of the vice-premiers even fell. So let's do this right now. A land without bread could be in 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u56	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. You know very well how one of the experts in this direction, which, unfortunately, is always repeated, has been since 1998. There is no State policy that is serious in this direction. And as long as it's not, they'll always be looking for the goat's release, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u57	Omelyan Parubok
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u58	I give you my word to Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u59	Vladimir Novak, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u60	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Vasil Vasilovich, I know you as an objective person. I've listened very carefully to your report, your commission, and I want to say one thing: you're saying all of these facts, and you're saying the conclusion is that the state has already robbed the peasant.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u62	He was deceived, in fact, even by the unfortunate purchases made by the state today, and it turns out that they don't belong to the state, to the purchase of grain. The grain that was purchased. The state doesn't belong. You can explain, then, how does the chairman of the commission come to the conclusion: Why does it work out this way? Why are we already on the same rakes, as you say? Why did the peasants lose faith today in the fact that the State would one day protect his interests, that the State would do anything to make it easier for the peasant to grow grain? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u63	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, thank you for a very serious question. In my mind, I've been working in this area, I know how DAK “Ukraine’s bread”, the State Shareholder’s company has been bankrupt, as farmers are being bullied today by what they call the reform of the agribusiness complex in 14 years, which it has led to. You don't want to say such very puffish words from this big rostrum, but in fact we have to have a strong state, we don't have a power, we don't have a response, and that means there is no answer to that question, as far as you're concerned. Because in order to work, to work seriously in this area, there must be experts, with a state position to do so. Unfortunately, it's quite different.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u64	Vasil Calinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, you have quite rightly noted in your speech and in your report note that price policies have a major impact on the stability of the grain market. You know, when the Law was passed, and it was adopted, on State support for agricultural production, there was the creation of an agrarian fund, a state fund, I want to emphasize, an agrarian fund. So I'm here to ask you. You studied this situation last year, this year. What needs to be done to implement this law and to have the State Agrarian Fund working, which needs to stabilize the price policy in our nation's grain market. I am very grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u66	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, can I say what I think? Because it takes brains and everything, and everything's gonna work out. Unfortunately, we've got you today seeing the Derezers, the state stock company, and there's still a fund. And in general, 300 bracelets are being bought into peasant grains today. On the other hand, they're selling it for 650 dollars and they're buying 700 dollars right now. Today, there is no clear understanding of swans, cancer, and hammers. And until it's in the only fist, until there's a responsible one, we're not going to change this situation. Unfortunately, you know that a tool today, such as the State Shareholder's Bread of Ukraine, is being privatized. I mean, if we say that the security of the state is the food security of the state is one of the main ones, then we have to have a tool in the state. What does the State have today? It doesn't give money, it doesn't give a clear sense of what should be done to the executives, it means that the executive is meant to be, the law, and then it's going to work. So you have to give money to do that and clearly see how they're going to work, control these costs, and so that it's not directly related to the businessmen who are between the agro-industrial complex and the farmers and the exporters or the importers there. And it came directly to the manufacturer. It's not there, it's not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u67	Vasil Vasilovich, a question of the past. Are there any grain traders with parliamentary badges?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u68	Adam Ivanovich, you know that. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u69	Sergey's weak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u70	Sergi Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Vasily Vasilovich, I listened very carefully to your speech, and I didn't understand one thing. You didn't mention Volin in part that I was also directed to you by a temporary commission to make a statement about the abuses that were in the Wallin region when the former Head of the Board issued an order, in fact setting up a procreation, namely the task of who, how much grain to give, including seed. And we wrote about it. At the same time, I will inform you in addition that the MPs initiated several parliamentary appeals, requests to the law enforcement authorities. In the end, they were able to cancel the orders in part, which was directly contrary to the current legislation of the President and the laws of Ukraine. But I'm curious, but you mentioned here, one word was applied, which, well, probably not very parliamentary, so who did your commission try to bring to justice and they were held accountable under the current legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u71	Thank you, Sergei. I'm sorry we, I didn't really call your area. It's one of the main places where it's always faked and it is. As far as we're concerned, we've been trying very hard to work in this direction, but, you know, unfortunately, the direct faction of “Our Ukraine” did not vote in favour of the temporary commission of inquiry in order to give the status directly and mandate for the serious work of the interim commission of inquiry. We know today the functions and capabilities of the interim commission of inquiry, which, in most cases, remains our efforts of deputies, is meant by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to do better for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u72	Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u73	Please give the floor to the national MP, Sas Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u74	Oh, that's why Sergei Sass was so worried. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u75	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovitch, National Deputy Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vasil Vasilovich, well, of course 2002, 2003 is long gone, it's important for history. You know that in the current year, one third of the necessary winters are sown. A large portion of them are now in a disgruntled state, unknown to be in the spring. We had the Minister of Finance in front of us, and he said that the accounts of the Ministry of Agropolitics are every day up to 200 million dollars to be spent on the purchase of grain, the same agrarian fund, it's not being purchased, and if the grain is being purchased, it's only the sixth class. Can you answer the question of what will be the price of the bread in the spring and, nevertheless, what will Ukraine have in 2006 after the provision of bread?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u76	Thank you for being so active in this important, to our deep conviction of the Commission on the subject, i.e. the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, directly, the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, I am as active as the head, I want to testify, I was not on the side of the executive power both at Kinah, and at Yanukovich, and at Julius Volodymyrovn, and at Yehanur. And we have the consequences, you know, when a big crop, prices are falling, the agricultural producer is "destroyed". Those who make money in this market have huge profits. In 2006, I think there's going to be a mandatory increase in the price of bread and bread, and there's going to be a food shortage. We will import, or import, and spend a lot of money on it and say, “We have to save the state! ” That is, to return to the food security of the state at a serious level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u77	We're not going to import because it's here, most likely. Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u78	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I agree with you that the crisis in our agriculture is already such that we cannot figure out what to do today, although much depends on the state. Today, you are right to say that the activities of mediators are on the increase, not those who want to engage in grain cultivation. As an example, in Hersonish alone today, more than 200 entrepreneurs and farmers have given up on such activities, it is a tragedy. So I have a question to ask you, don't you think it's time for experts, judicial authorities to make an expert report on the decrees issued by the presidents of our different times, including Leonida Kuchma, who introduced this system of reform. And the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u79	Thank you. You ask a profound question, and I can say that history will certainly take that into account. We are convinced of that with you. Here we need to look deeper and wider at our beliefs. Because the threat will be, the election will speculate, it will be. And they'll always use both the decrees and the unwillingness to work, and most importantly, I want to say, for the last time, to our deep conviction, until we return a government order with such a price that it would be convenient for the agricultural producer and, directly, the money that came to it would be the destruction of the state, in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u80	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich, sit down, please. As we can see, the commission worked fruitfully. They've prepared a draft decision that's the whole point of getting a report on the commission's work. She was thanked for the work she was doing, and the recommendations made by the Cabinet of Ministers expressed the need to use it to avoid making similar mistakes. And the third point is to hand over to the Attorney General's Office the temporary commission of inquiry materials that indicate that there is a violation of legislation in the Ukrainian market for grain and bread. I vote in favour of such a decree as a whole. Registration number 8605. Please vote. [[11:47:30.]] For 213 Dear colleagues, we're not there yet. Who's there to come back? [[11:47:52]] For 227 Yeah, we're back to 227. I'd like to ask you to support the draft of the ruling in the same way or more. Vote. [[11:48:14]] For 224 Dear colleagues! Let's finish the work of the commission, and that's what we're proposing. I've done my job, we'll make a decision, we'll thank you. We vote friendlyly, vote hard, it's a decision to shut down the commission. [[11:48:53]] For 232 So we accepted the report, we thank the commission for its work, and we think that it did its job, stopped its work, and that is to say, did its job. A report from the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being submitted to determine the reasons for the creation of debt for loans entered into by the State or under State guarantees. Head of the Commission of Masters Vladimir Jakovic. Please, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u81	Vladimir Masterskin, National Block of Lithuania. A report from the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reasons for the nonrefundation of debts incurred by the State or under State guarantees. The interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council was designed to determine the reasons for the nonrefoulement of credits, and it was mainly for the development of proposals on how to repay them, and how to prevent them from forming such debts. Foreign loans under State guarantees were involved in credit lines opened on the basis of relevant inter-government and inter-bank agreements. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 1 92, number 2561, and 1703, Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In 93 C.E., the Cabinet of Ministers was granted the right to speak on behalf of the State for foreign loans. Following the adoption of the Ukrainian Law, the “International Treaties of Ukraine” in 1993 and the Constitution of Ukraine, all international agreements on foreign loans were ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The guarantees provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are silent and without delay, and they make up Ukraine’s debt as a state. The priority of the 92-93 project was to use the existing productive potential to reduce social tension in Ukraine. But it didn't take into account the reliability, the technical-economic justification of the borrowing companies, the size of the loans often-intensibly did not match the ability of the borrowers to pay them off. Only after the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers dated 17.08.95 under number 655 and the order of the Cabinet of Ministers dated 07.12.95 VAT did the State Export Bank of Ukraine “Ukreximbank” as a bank agent begin to enter into collateral contracts under these foreign loans. Nevertheless, Ukreximbank entered into only 17 contracts with creditors of 65 contracts of a formal nature. The 48 debtors of the mortgage agreements were not at all formed. In addition, the bets were made two or three years after the guaranteed loans were granted. Decisions on granting loans to legal persons, such as residents of Ukraine, the right to engage foreign loans under State guarantees, which were preceded by a national expert on projects based on essentially administrative methods and assessments, without competitive procedures, without any personal responsibility for possible negative consequences in their use and return were accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or by a small group of officials of the Monetary and Credit Board of the Cabinet of Ministers. Foreign lending companies were chronically underexpenditured, resulting in additional production capacity created by the inclusion of these loans being used incompletely, inefficiently or at all. In 97 C.E., then Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Victor Pinzenik produced a shocking statistic. I ask you to listen: More than 70 cents of every dollar of credit has already been paid off by the State budget. To date, this figure is 90 cents of each dollar that is borrowed has already paid the State budget. Only since 97 did the central executives start making the right decisions. The debt crisis that Ukraine has experienced has resulted from the lack of a legislatively defined strategy to manage the state debt of the state-owned critical indicators of its size, as well as the inefficient measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance to borrowers to carry out their financial obligations under foreign loans. Ukraine's State Budget Act of 1998, 2003, except for 2001-2002, the State Tax Service is recognised as a body for the collection of late debt on loans to the State or under State guarantees. However, the mechanism for contracting such debt by the DPA authorities is not regulated by valid legislation. [[I'll miss it.]] Thus, about 48 percent of the loans are still not available in the State Budget. Proper arrangement of credit agreements has led many businesses today to make use of appropriate commercial credit, without any legal liability. According to the financial and economic activity of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the borrowers are divided into three groups. The first group is companies with a satisfactory financial situation. The second is companies with an unsatisfying financial situation. And the third group of businesses that lead to economic activity and are located. They say they don't do business and they're in a state of bankruptcy or liquidation. So what are we proposing? First, to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the establishment of an authorized authority to ensure the recovery of the budget that has been spent on repaying the loans involved under State guarantees. We propose that this body be empowered to take measures to repay foreign loans, to establish an active control system, and to carry out a comprehensive study of issues related to overdue debt for foreign loans, and to develop proposals to improve financial policy. The other one. To extend the limitation period for non-refundable loans entered into by the State or under State guarantees. Third. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking, together with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, hasten the adoption of the State Debt Act of Ukraine to regulate the mechanisms for repayment of loans received under guarantees and all matters relating to government debt, which set out the procedure for the formation, repayment and servicing of public debt. [[Registration number 1229]] By the way, this is the requirement of the Constitution, the 95th article of the Constitution, which states that only the State Debt Act has the right to use the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the volume of lending and repayment of loans. Four. The interim commission of inquiry is working on the necessary changes and additions to the Criminal and Economic Procedural Codes of Ukraine, in particular on implementation. We invite the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Supreme Council's Professional Committees, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and all interested experts in the State's monitoring law enforcement agencies to join in the process of relieving the budget with the credits they have received from the state-guaranteed enterprise. Fifth. Until the establishment of the competent authorities for the recovery of budgetary resources, the Interim Investigation Commission shall continue to work with specific borrowers and shall work out proposals for a solution to the issues related to the non-refundability of this debt due to the government's deficit in decision-making. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u82	Thank you. Is there a question? Let's sign up. Please, 10 minutes. Pomorenko Grigory.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u83	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Yakovic, will you call me two or three companies with a satisfactory financial situation, for which the state is accounted for from the State Budget, whose debts? That's the first one. And second. The decree should contain some commission or recommendation from the Cabinet of Ministers. They're gone. And the third. The easiest route the Cabinet of Ministers had in the 2006 budget project was to sell those debts for 50 percent of their price. If the state cannot take what it has to take away, the brothers who will sell these debts for 50 percent will come, not 100 percent, but more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'm paying attention to everyone. We have a report from the investigating committee. Accordingly, there are 24 pages of text. Secondly, on your particular question about the first group, the so-called, satisfactory financial situation that is not being calculated today, is VAT “Centrenergo”. The second is the National Broadcasting Company, also the Borispol Airport, which received loans and is being repaid by the state today. Third, what do we think today? First of all, those legislative acts that we are paying attention to today must be adopted by the Supreme Council. The most important factor that affects us today. The fact that with a satisfactory financial situation, the enterprise is not accounted for is that today it has no criminal responsibility for the non-refundability of loans taken under the government's guarantees. Accordingly, we propose today to supplement the Criminal Code with an appropriate article so that we today understand that any civil servant, or any entrepreneur who has taken guarantees, is responsible under the state, including the criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u85	Oleg Yuhnowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u86	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Volodymira Jakovic, you have examined in detail the situation of the return of your own loans made under State guarantees, but please tell Volodymira Jakovic, these funds are practically fully recovered from the state budget of Ukraine, given that a number of the structures that have taken these loans do not already exist today, in view of the fact that the technology that was actually used for these loans has also exhausted its depreciation term, does it not, do you not think, that it would be appropriate to transfer these materials to the Attorney General's Office, which should also be involved in this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u87	Thank you. In fact, the report of the commission of inquiry was submitted to the Supreme Council a year and a half ago, the first position. Second position, we've long handed these materials over to the Attorney General's Office. Thirdly, and thirdly, you know, I'd like to take a moment out of this lobby to protect those borrowers who took the money and didn't have the opportunity today, I'm not saying that all of them, but mostly they don't have the ability to account today. The point is, the loans were borrowed in the 96th, 97th, respectively. Imagine, the borrower took a loan, so let's say, a million dollars worth of credit at $1.6 per hand. Appropriately today, he had a plan to return. It's been there for eight, ten years. Today, instead of paying 1 million 600,000 dollars, he needs to pay 5 million dollars. So I have a question: is the state also responsible for this or is it completely self-inflicted? As for the help of the borrower, he may also be able to give it back. Third position. That today about 70 percent of the harvest is harvested by combines, and this needs to be said for justice's sake, is collected by combines purchased for guaranteed loans. I agree with you that much of these combines are out of date. But at the same time, this is also an important point to understand what was going on with this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u88	Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Yakovich, in view of the fact that we are being listened to and watched by Ukrainian citizens, is it still necessary for you to report not only because of the report we have been given, what is the amount borrowed by the State, how much of these loans have been returned, which are taken under the State's guarantees, who are these structures, and are the members of the national deputies to the relevant structures that have taken the appropriate loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u90	Then you have to take some time so that I can hear all this data. As you can see, there's quite a lot of them here. But for today, I can say two digits. First. The total amount of loans that have to do with guarantees is about $4 billion. Today, there is no return of $1 billion, or $1 billion, 600,000. As I said before, today about 90 cents of guaranteed loans have already been returned by the state. And unfortunately, this system, given the problems that I've been talking about, the non-regulation of legislation, the non-regulation of regulations, is exactly what's causing us to find someone who's responsible and to take them back to the state properly, that's a big problem. So, as a result, we are stressing once again that we need to make changes to the relevant laws that could address this issue today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u91	Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u92	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the “Reforms and Rows” party. Dear Volodymira Yakovic, we first came upon this robbery of state loan guarantees in 91, when he was taken, borrowed a loan for a program of American corn, chemicals and so on. Well, it's been 91 years since, you see what time, and we constantly, constantly, well, put the state in situations where those who take international loans don't give them up. You have named the number 48% that cannot be returned. Yeah, that's what Ivancho asked. Shouldn't you be systematizing, first of all, who's taking. Secondly, as I recall, the Supreme Council does not normally agree on such loans, so who gives this consent, like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u93	Thank you. That's an absolute good point. Let me start with maybe some of these. I, despite the fact that the commission of inquiry, when doing so, concluded that loans should be issued in the future. Can you imagine? Why? Because, in principle, the state today has serious positions related to the problem of energy security as an example. And the only way that today would be possible to engage loans to make it possible to structurally rebuild the economy with the aim of reducing energy consumption, is through guarantees. But the scheme that was designed and that led to such a shameful practice did not, in principle, allow these loans to be granted at all. What is the point of that scheme and what we propose to improve. The scheme was as follows. As a condition, the entrepreneur went to Italy, took a corresponding commercial loan, and placed it in production in Ukraine, and the state acted as a guarantor. Our proposal is to improve this scheme. Please make a deal with any country's proper commercial coverage, but this loan must be guaranteed by the commercial bank of Ukraine, any commercial bank. And the state is already responsible, that is, it is accountable to the state, and the commercial bank will be dealt with accordingly by an entrepreneur. And so, if we improve this scheme, then there's no problem in terms of cost-sharing, including loans, under guarantees. What's more, I'll tell you today, despite this shameful practice, Ukraine has a serious position on government debt. We have a debt-to-gross ratio of less than 20 percent today, so we can raise debt today, regardless of what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u94	Sergey Doroguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u95	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to the national deputy of Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u96	Vladimir Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u97	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymira Yakovich, I understand from your report, the report of the commission that in Ukraine civil-law relations under the State guarantee were replaced by administrative, in fact, actions, methods. I mean, whoever's closer to the authorities has come, decided on the question, took the loan, and put it on the state. Don't you think this is one of the schemes for robbing the state? That's the first question. Second, the commission is making a proposal to create another body that will return these loans, that is, such a mobilisation center, that's what you said. We don't have enough, we have a state tax inspection, administration is more loyal. We who lack power? And there's no tax administration? Why us?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. I'll try to answer briefly. First. Any decision on the granting of loans was made subject to the ratification of the corresponding credit of the Supreme Council. The other one. Unfortunately, there is no body today, and I know that the Department of State Debt has recently established a group that is engaged in the recovery of these loans. But consider that if an entrepreneur has an irreparable loan of $50 million, the legal service today is enough to create any legal obstacle to keep that loan from coming back. Appropriately, if we set up a working group that would, on the one hand, have a legal basis to do so and have a financial basis to do so. You're in the 2005 budget for the first time since my insistence, including we've imposed such a rule that not only does the State Tax Administration pay back these loans, but it would also have financial support for this issue, as it doesn't sound strange, but at least 5 percent of that amount will be allocated to legal escorts. Because there are millions and millions of dollars in the price of questions. And today it is very, very difficult to hire a lawyer, including government funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u99	Yes, the discussion is over. We have draft decree 8603, let's take it. I put to the vote a draft Supreme Council Resolution on the Report of the Interim Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on the situation of debt repayment to the State for loans granted to enterprises and under State guarantees. Project number 8603. Please vote. So let's stop the work of the commission, vote and say thank you to the commission. [[12:10:09]] For 206 Ivancho, the microphone there, some offer is wise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich! The second paragraph of our ruling reads: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine should contact the Committee on Finance.” That's it. Make a commitment to the Committee on Finance and so forth. The Supreme Council will address the committee. It's purely editorial. I'm asking you to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u101	Ivan Vasilovich. If you don't mind, you're absolutely right, we'll write: “The Committee on Finance and Banking will review the draft Ukrainian State Debt Act on second reading.” Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! That's right, we did it, for a twig and nothing else. And I propose to make an offer to the Attorney General's Office, first of all, to send to the Attorney General's Office all the materials that are there, and the Attorney General's Office should certainly look at these materials and take action. We give ourselves assignments, laws, laws. That's very good. And who will be responsible for the embezzlement and the fact that the State has become a hostage of all of this, and so are the citizens of Ukraine? So I suggested that I include a paragraph on the assignment of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Let's do this so that we specify the second paragraph, as Ivan Vasilovich said, and instead of the third paragraph, write that the commissions send the materials received in the course of the work to the Attorney General's Office to take the necessary measures in accordance with the applicable legislation. [[The commission will do it without us, let's say.]] Please vote on such clarifications as the decree. [[12:12:41]] For 239. It's been decided. Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, it's been a long time since we've made statements. So four factions want to use it. The People's Movement and Our Ukraine and the People's Block of Lithuania and the People's Party. Yeah, from the People's Movement and Our Ukraine, who's speaking? Tissuenka, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u104	Alexander Tkachenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine Declaration by the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine on the need to bring to the world rent rates for based on the territory of Ukraine of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. The presence of a powerful foreign military group of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine has a direct impact on the political, economic interests and poses additional risks to the national security of our state. Contrary to the signing of the Treaty on the Divisional Options of the Black Sea fleet, the Russian Federation voluntarily seized and used 75 land plots of more than 150 hectares and 86 fleet infrastructure objects on a free basis. A large part of them are subordinated by commercial companies. It should be noted that the payment for the Russian base in our territory amounts to a little over 97 million a year. US dollars, which is not in line with world price practice, have been reduced by tens of thousands of times. For example, the United States pays up to two billion dollars a year for rents much less than the capacity in Germany. Our military experts estimate that Ukraine loses up to three billion dollars each year. And in eight years, the official Russian military base has been undercalculated into our budget for 20 billion dollars. That's what I'm talking about. It's also worth adding that the Russian Federation refused and refused to pay the rent of the area from 91st to 97th. This is 4591 objects and over 20,000. hectares of territory in which the Russian Black Sea fleet is located From the initiative of members of the Ukrainian People's Movement in the Supreme Council, a draft Order on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the status of implementation of the basic agreements on the status and conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine was introduced. However, there are forces in the Ukrainian Parliament that do not advocate national interests and block the inclusion of this decree in the agenda of the session. The faction of the National Movement of Ukraine requires the National Security and Defence Council, the Supreme Council, the Government of Ukraine to organize legal relations and bring into line with the world's price practice rent based on our territory of the Russian military base. We believe that solving this problem can be a serious factor in bilateral negotiations between Ukraine and Russia on gas issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I think the more these applications, the warmer we'll be in the winter. Yes, please, who? Seeds. Don't shout, please, your voice and your nerves. They'll be good for you. Before the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u106	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina, 74 constituency, Carpathians, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Humanity policies of the new authorities have repeatedly been subject to serious criticism. The People's Party faction publicly demanded that the President put an end to the persecution of political motives and human resources in the wake of the brutal violation of the constitutional rights of people in places. Yet, nothing fundamentally changes. Today I am forced to draw the head of state's attention as a guarantor of the observance of the Constitution of Ukraine and of the rights and freedoms of all Ukrainian society to the situation that has arisen in the remotest mountainous region of the Zakartat region of Wolowitz. Today, the district authorities organized a powerful press release to the chief physician of the district hospital, Vasilev Stepanchuku. In the summer, the district authorities presented an ultimatum – either you are leaving the ranks of the National Party and heading the election headquarters of “Our Ukraine” or you are releasing the chair of the chief physician. I would like to point out that in this mountainous region, because of the specificity of the risk zone, the authority of the chief physician is particularly high. Basil Stepanczuk worked at the district hospital for 22 years. For the past three years, he has been the head of the district hospital. He is well - known and respected in every village. Ironically, this factor is working against it today. The Carpathian authorities do not want such a powerful competitor. She reanimated the Stalinese with her slogan: “Whoever is not with us is against us.” This policy has already opened a list of victims in the Wolowitz region. After a completely groundless discharge, the director of the school in the village of Huklive Volovetsk district of Zakarpatsk was put to death. Who, let me ask, will be responsible for leading a teacher to suicide? Sadly, this tragic incident did not become a lesson for the new authorities at Zakarpatta. On the initiative of the governor, whose direction was taken by the head of the department, Mr. Turjanczyk, against Stepanczuk, today, the entire administrative machine is working hard. In September alone, 12 inspection teams visited the Wolowitz district hospital in a 20 - day period. In fact, the hospital is now living in a state of revision and fear. Today, the hospital, which serves 25,000 residents in the area, has only 5,000 dollars a month for medicine. This money is not enough even for surgery. On a bed in the Wolowitz region, the budget allocates less than two dollars a day, and only 80 copies a day to feed the sick. During the winter season, climbing to the hospital is a problem, but they do not want to know about it in the Zakarpat district government. Dear colleagues, the faction of the People’s Party is outraged by the brutal persecution of the political motives of Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u107	They broke up. Now we continue with the reports. A report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of violations of citizens’ rights to freedom of conscience is being heard. Head of the commission Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich. Wide from motive, please, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u108	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian People’s Party, and a member of the interim commission whose report is scheduled to be considered. I would like to say that only five of the 15 members were present at the board meeting when the report was presented. The commission was completely prejudiced. Me. As a member, I was not warned twice about this commission and, for some reason, I was present once because I had learned from other persons who were sitting on this committee, and on another occasion I was not present. So I think it is absolutely wrong to consider a decision from a commission signed by only four deputies, members of this committee from 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, let's not get to the verdict yet, let's hear the report. When we discuss a determination, when we discuss a determination, there is a separate thought, and Kosovo will be heard, and we will be determined. Everything is determined by vote, not by vote. Please, 7 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u110	Thank you. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, Orthodox believers, report to the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the violation of the citizens' right to freedom of conscience, which was created by the Supreme Council on 3 November this year, when, in particular, other regions of Ukraine, the executive power became directly, cynically and openly involved in church affairs and all of this led to long-term conflicts among believing Orthodoxs. A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of citizens’ rights to freedom of conscience has studied material on the causes of interfaith relations, almost in fifteen regions of Ukraine, such as Donetsk, Zitomirsk, Hersonsk, Kyivsk, Sumski, Ternopil, Ravensk, and other areas of Ukraine. The Commission carefully approached everyone without the exception of complaints and complaints. The Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took part in the examination of the references made by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Department of State for Religious Affairs and other public authorities and structures which dealt with these problems regarding the violation of the right of citizens to freedom of conscience. The Commission, together with the bodies and structures listed above, has carried out a number of violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukrainian laws on violations of the citizens’ right to freedom of conscience. If, according to the conclusions of the Donetské, Žitomirské, Hersonské, Sumskia and other areas actually have conflict situations among the believing communities of the OPC and the OPC of the Kyiv Patriarchate, and in fact has not been found in these areas by direct intervention of the executive authorities, there are indeed gross and systematic violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of the right of citizens to freedom of conscience in the Plain and Ternopil areas. After examining the evidence gathered, the commission informs you, the honourable national deputies, and the Ukrainian people of the following. The decision of the Ternopil State Administration, headed by Mr. Stojko, is biased with regard to the religious communities of the UPC. An example of local authorities in interfaith conflicts surrounding the property of the Canonical Ukrainian Orthodox Church may be the situation in the village of Rohmanov in the Ternopil region. There is an interfaith conflict in the village over the use of the sacred temple of the Holy Trinity, where there has been virtually six months under Parliament a tent of Orthodox believers. The OPC religious community has been a legitimate user for more than half a century. Mr. Stoyko, head of Ternopil’s State Administration, takes an illegal order from 20.04 this year, number 180, on the introduction of the extracurricular use of the temple of the religious communities of the OPC and the OPC of the Kyiv patriarchate. 18.05 This year, too, the Ternopil State Administration, the head of Stojko, takes the illegal order number 246, which in general deprives the temple of the religious community of UPC, repeals Ternopil decision No. 301 of December 26, 91. At the time of the prosecution of the order of the Head of Ternopil ODA of 20.4 of this year No.180, the execution of an order for the use of the temple of the religious community of UPC and UPC KP, the village of Rokhmanov, to carry out the stated order of the Head of the Forest District State Administration, Mr. Petruk, takes a number of decisions of an open criminal nature, ignoring laws that protect property rights. The UPC Group is the legal beneficiary of the cult structure and the legal owner of the property it contains. The district administration conducts an inventory of the property of the religious community of UPC without any right, even in the absence of representatives of the legitimate owner, knocks down castles in the temple and allows religious rituals to be performed at the temple of the Holy Trinity of the village of Rohman to the religious community of the OPC of Kyiv Patriarchate. More than 30 orders were issued from April to November of this year in connection with the religious communities of the UPC and the UPC. An illegal order was issued from the eighth, fourth, year of the year No. 135 concerning the transfer of the religious building of the Presbyterian Church to death. The branch of the district of Equine in the use of the local UPC KP community. An illegal order has been issued since the fifteenth, fourth, year of this year, No. 149, since the twenty - seventh, fifth, year of this year, No. 230, since the ninth, ninth, year of this year, No. 413, from the ninth, ninth, year of this year, No. 415, 417, 497, from the twentieth, tenth, year of this year, No. 498, on the registration of changes and additions to the statute of religious communities on the basis of which the Church of the Holy Church of the People's Republic of Kyiv Patriarchate of Ostroga was transferred. Here, near this temple, the battle of two communities began, despite the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has formed a temporary commission of inquiry into the facts of citizens' violation of the right to freedom of conscience, the Red issued an eighth number of orders number 533 and once again violates the Constitution and the law of Ukraine. According to the decree of the head of the general government, the religious communities of the UPC have been given illegal property, cult buildings, bells and so on, which have been used for many years by the religious communities of the OPC on the basis of decisions of the executive district council and relevant civil law agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u111	All of it. Yes, please sign up for the questions. Ten minutes, Victor Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u112	Adam Ivanovich, please tell my colleague Sukhima.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u113	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u114	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I firmly deny the insinuations of some members who are not required to be brought to the meeting of the commission. At the last meeting, the quorum was, although certainly, not 100 per cent, as in all the temporary special investigation committees, the records of this in the secretariat. That's the first one. Second, please tell Paul Gnatovich, these data that you have just given us about gross violations of the law, about gross violations of the constitutional rights of the citizens of Ternopil, Ravensky, Kiev. Where did you come from, whose conclusions are these, please quote us the sources, where did these conclusions come from, which government authorities have recognized this decision? That's one question. And the proposal, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to propose, as a member of the commission, today for this motion not to vote, this motion for a ruling is not made by a commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u115	Mikola Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u116	Thank you. I want to give you an answer, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Where did we get this? I wanted to tell you, I told you, we're not involved in the test. We practically didn't want to go from the commission to the community and, in fact, make some kind of a turn, meaning, a fight and so on. We sent the appropriate authorities, the prosecutor’s office, and so forth. I'm reading to you. “The audit of the Attorney General’s Office concludes that, according to a letter dated 24.11 this year from the Attorney General’s Office, under the heading 07/1/1, it is further established that, in the issuance of the orders in question, there is no consideration in the Plains region, or in the Ternopilian, act-of-protection contracts, which are imposed contrary to the current legislation that are not in agreement with the religious communities of the UPC.” According to a letter dated 22.11. this year from the Provincial Prosecutor’s Office, it is established that the Regional Administration of the State by the courts of different levels has been involved as the answer to questions related to the issuance of the above - mentioned orders. According to a letter from the Provincial Prosecutor's Office, it has also been established that, with regard to the Saint-Spanish Church in the village of Dorogobuž, an indefinite contract has been concluded with the religious community of UPC, which was not broken down and is now handed over to the Kyiv Patriarchate. And I want to tell you that the rulings and the rulings of the judges in accordance with the judgment of the Ravenna City Court in November of this year are recognized by the illegal order of the Ravenna District State Administration of November 15.04. This year's number 149 and the order of 27 this year's number 230 “On the transfer of the village of Milosov to the Plain region and the village of the Ostróżki district of the Plain region” has been declared illegal. A guide on the results of a comprehensive study by the Ministry of Justice working group of Ukraine on the Government's mandate to intensify interfaith relations in the Plain region was signed by representatives of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Service of Ukraine, and confirms the illegality of the actions of the head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Republic of Croatia, Vasil Mikhajlovich, on the transfer of KPC property to the Kyiv Patriarchate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u117	Mikola Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u118	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please give the floor to a colleague of Kuharczuk Mikoli Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u119	Mikoli Kuharczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u120	Chef, Communist faction. Dear National Deputies! As co-chair of the commission, I want to complete the report with such a fact. The head of the Ravenna government, Vasil Redoni, implemented his sad draft law on illustrations without agreement with the Ministry of State in matters of religion of Ministu in September of this year, released the head of the department of religion of Sokolovsky. Minust did not respond to this violation in his personnel and in his subordinates ’ services. So when Red felt uncontrollable on the part of the higher government structures, he appointed the post, note, the priest of the UPRC of the Kyiv Patriarchate of Marenić and, again, unconsented by the Statepreligion. In this regard, Paul Gnatovich. As the commission was assisted by government bodies that are bound by themselves, without reminders of parliamentary requests and appeals, to pursue full implementation. SULKOVSKI, U.S.A. Thank you. I would like to say that, with the assistance of the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General's Office, I would really like to thank the Attorney General, Mr. Medvedjek, the Attorney General's Office on the second day has paid attention and has begun to work on establishing the facts that have taken place with regard to these problems. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I would like to say that Mr. Chairman, the minister, has really, inadvertently responded to this problem. I, as the head of the commission, had twice been asked to meet him, to determine how to work to help, even after I could not call him, I personally arrived at the reception room, waited almost an hour, and Mr. Chief, while in the office, that the head of the commission of the Supreme Council on these matters had asked for one minute, and he had not accepted me. And so I'm going to say that the worst Ministry of Justice was dealing with these cases. But despite this, I would like to tell you that the Attorney General's Office, with the late Ministry of Justice, the State Department of these matters in the noted actions of the head of the Equality District Administration, bears witness to and confirms that illegal orders are perceived as having been issued by Vasil Red to carry the signs of service crimes envisaged in part two of article 161, part two of article 364, part two of article 365, part two of article 376, part two of article 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. And so I want to tell you, dear friends, that these conclusions really should be attached by the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u121	Alexander Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u122	Dear Paul Gnatovich, the facts you call are impressive and confirmed not only by the materials of your commission but by the official documents of the law enforcement agencies. Therefore, in the ruling, I would recommend that we address to the Attorney General's Office not to carry out the examination of the facts presented by the Interim Investigation Commission, these facts have already been verified, including by the Prosecutor's Office, and that we should write: to respond in accordance with the applicable legislation to the facts of a violation of the rule of law – and beyond the text submitted by the Interim Investigation Commission. Reacting to the prosecutor’s office rather than rechecking what has already been checked ten times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u123	Thank you. You can really agree, you can hear the offer. And I think that today, Adam Ivanovich, really, the draft decree is registered, given to you, honourable national MPs, and therefore I would like to conclude, too. I think the first item is the commission's report. The second item is to mark the occurrence of cases. The third point is to recommend that the President of Ukraine be relieved of his post as head of the Regional Government in connection with systematic violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukrainian laws on violations of citizens’ rights to freedom of conscience. And I think you'll agree with the fourth. While there are non-systemic violations, but there are cases in the Ternopil region, recommending that the President of Ukraine be held accountable by the head of the Ternopil State Administration, Stoyk, and the head of the Ternopil District State Administration in connection with their violation of the Ukrainian Constitution and laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u124	Ivancho.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u125	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. As a colleague, I would like to point out that your conduct in the Supreme Council stands as a precursor to Stojk and Redonia, with whom you went to the “Our Ukraine” elections to the Supreme Council in your embrace. At another time, I'd like you to report to the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u126	Mikhail Ratushnoy's microphone. Your microphone is not on, so the card does not work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am from Ternopolska, and I know the situation in Rahman of the Shum district. I'll tell you, the situation is very simple. For immoral conduct, midwifery, drunkenness, and drunkenness, the peasants expelled the village. Moscow Patriarchate. And reading point 4 about being attracted to someone is not quite right. One. I have a question for a reporter who's already spoken. Why do you put your personal opposition to Redness into the plane of inflaming interreligious enmity? One. The second question. Why don't you see the burnt Greek Catholic churches in the center of Kiev, the Greek Catholics not allowing their own, the situation with the Kyiv Patriarchate in eastern Ukraine? Don't you realize that your argument with Red is not worth the fire you're lighting?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u128	Thank you. I want to give you an answer like that. I have absolutely no prejudice and no prejudice. And I'm just honest and honest with you, and I promise you that before God. And please prove to me at least one example of where I had and had at the time of the work of the committee of prejudice. As for the last speaker. I'd like to tell you, Mr. Ukrainian People's Party. You are a member of this political power, which I very much respect, the leader of Yuri Ivanovich Kostenka. And when Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko literally said a few weeks ago that, like Vasil Red and Eugene Yellowjack, these are patriots and they can be built with them in Ukraine, I want to tell you that if Yuri Ivanovich, the leader that I respect, and I want to tell you that if he is going to defend these rude, cynical violations of politicians like Red and Eugene Zovtak, then I want to say: shame on this political ideology, this party that wants to build a future in Ukraine. There will never be peace, peace and solidarity in Ukraine! There will be enmity! And once again, policies such as Red, John Stoyko, Eugene Jovtjak will lead to the loss of independence of our Ukraine. In conclusion, Adam Ivanovich, you. To thank, on behalf of the faction of the Party of the “Regions of Ukraine”, all the national deputies of Ukraine, that we have indeed brought greetings and wishes to the believers of the Orthodox and all the Ukrainian people, that we have created this commission and calmed the Ukrainian people and Orthodox believers, and have given them the opportunity today to meet the New Year in peace with our decisions and commission, Christmas Christ. And we are convinced that the Orthodox will appreciate our conduct, the national MPs, and we are grateful for the fact that we really are for the consolidation, that we want to allow them to pray peacefully for our families and for our beautiful Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Praise our Orthodox believers, we will protect you and allow the bandits to intervene in church affairs! This should be listened to by Yushchenko, who promised to protect peace in Ukraine, to enable the Orthodox to serve God freely and peacefully between the sects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u129	Thank you. Yes, there's a motion before the ruling about the inadmissibility of individual points, three minutes, please, Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, after this completely psychologically unbalanced opinion, I will try to express only, as it were, legislative norms. So the content of paragraphs 3 and 4 of the draft regulation is unacceptable, the facts of the alleged violation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine by the heads of the Plain and Ternopil administrations of Red and Stoyk, and the head of the Sumu District Administration, and, more importantly, the system can only be installed in court. In the meantime, there is no court ruling regarding the Ternopil region. The conflict is indeed quite complex, and violations of legislation have taken place on the part of many parties to the conflict, but not only public officials. Therefore, it is wrong to appoint only authorities in this decision. The content of paragraph 7 of the draft regulation, among the measures envisaged by the project, is the proposal of the Attorney General: to strengthen the supervision of Ukraine's legislation on freedom of conscience and the activities of religious communities, para. 6. This proposal has no time limit, so the continuation of the measures is actually an attempt to make the interim commission permanent. As in such a situation, control over compliance with this decree will be exercised by this head, who has reported a decree from this rostrum, one can only imagine what will be done in specific areas, including the Plains region. So I propose, first of all, in a situation like this, it's impossible to make a decision in this context. And if we go to its acceptance, there are three points, paragraphs 3, 4, 7 and paragraph 2 of the word “holders of local executive authorities” by simply replacing “person” with “person” can still be considered. But the paragraphs 3.4 and 7 I'm calling have to be ruled out. And the last. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, but I was at a meeting of this last meeting of the commission. You and I were really only 5. And the last. I read the court’s decision carefully. They cannot be considered final. Unfortunately, our courts are also very often unaware of the Freedom of Conscience Act, religious organizations, I am one of the authors of this law, I know its requirements. So if the cult building is not privately owned, it can be passed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u131	Thank you. I repeat, I have expressed some thoughts to the Cossacks. There will be no more. The author, please sit down while you sit down, because you've taken a lot of this today. The dry matter was mentioned. Please, the microphone. They called it Suhigo, Mikhailo Kosov called it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u132	Thank you. I'm entitled to a replica, my last name was. I thank Mikhail Vasilovich for calling his last name in a negative sense. And I want to confirm his words that the quorum really was, but there was no 100 percent appearance, as is very often the case when other temporary commissions of inquiry are sitting. And Mr. Shirka, we don't have to wear, drive, bring, sprinkle flowers on him. He, if he is a national-aware MP and an active specialist and... he should come himself, not we should be looking for him. And the last. Dear colleagues, let's stop doing regular purgatory where there's no reason for that. I thought that today would be a serious conversation by our opponents about how to make sure that the authorities of the State did not get involved in interfaith relations and incite people to riots of all kinds, no more sacred than ensuring peace, tranquillity and stability. It's for everyone's politics. That is why I, Adam Ivanovich, suggest that in connection with the reason for this commission, in connection with the absence of deputies today, I move.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u133	Once again, there is no regulation so that, due to the absence of MPs, there is no vote. You've done more than you should today. Shut up, shut up. I am voting on the basis of the decision “On the report of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of violations of citizens’ rights to freedom of conscience”, registration number 8578. Please vote. [[12:48:50]] For-173 It was about the inadmissibility of individual points, so I put about, on the basis, not in general, and then I would go to the points. Write it down for reasons. Yes, please, three minutes, Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u134	Please pass the word to Sulkovski, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u135	Sulkowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, we are, indeed, the authors of this draft decision, we ask you, after all, not to bring it out, really, in the House of People's Deputies very little. There are many deputies who want to support this decision, so we will be like the authors of this decision for the next plenary week, and I think the national MPs will support us in this. All the rest of the accusations that have been made today are cynical supporters of Vasil Redney, who live, not in their own opinion, but in their own minds. I think it's a disgrace to our Western Ukraine that they have such impoverished politicians who only disgrace Ukraine in front of the whole world, first of all, in front of their Ukrainian people. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u137	Mikola Kuharchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u138	Chef, Communist faction. Please pass the word Samuel to Catherine Semenovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u139	Please, it's Samuel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. We're still talking to you, the question isn't as simple as it seems. And I'd like us to postpone the vote for the next plenary week. This is the first time. Secondly, you don't have to "someone" like your grandmother Parasca in all the oranges, so sorry about the way you've been running after her, even though maybe she's worth nothing. And when a priest is standing, a man who has been starving for two months at the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine just because he was protecting the law, only because he was defending the Orthodox faith, means he can be wasted and trampled. I think we should go to the Council of Europe about persecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u141	Alexander Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, passions are on fire, and there are certainly reasons, indeed, questions that are not simple. There's a proposal, but the decision has to be worked out, the series and questions have been asked and the answers have been answered. Perhaps we should make a decision on the commission’s commission to work with regard to the discussion and make a decision on the following Sunday.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u143	Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u144	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! Absolutely right, Adam Ivanovich, when he said that such a miracle to carry the vote, and something else in connection with the absence of deputies in the session room, is the know-how of Parliament, the know-how of the Rules simply cannot be. Even if I didn't want to. But don't interrupt me, please, but what I wanted to say is that today is actually a glorious day. At first, the Ukrainian government was ashamed of him. He's trying to protect Ukraine after all. for gas. Today, it was said that things were bad with churches in Western Ukraine, and things were so good in the East. And I understand why that is. Apparently today is Stalin’s birthday. And that's why I want to welcome all the people with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u145	You're a bit of a giver. Yeah, a little bit of a mix-up. Yes, please, for reasons of completeness. So, in view of the fact that, how many members of Commission 15? 15, 20. There were five at the board meeting. How much? So let the commission gather in full the quorum of the commission. Let him consider the draft decree at his meeting and bring it up for discussion by the Supreme Council. But on behalf of the commission. Yes, dear colleagues, listen to the announcement. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples’ Deputies and Article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy of roadside Alexander Viktorovich from the “One Ukraine” faction. Yes, dear colleagues, perhaps we can consider just one law. No, it's not. Then two factions ask for breaks. Who's going to do the Shurma, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u146	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] At the commission of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood, I am obliged to prove the information that was accepted at the committee meeting. During the recent history of Ukraine, we were struck by several outbreaks of infectious diseases that caused imperfect work, including disinfection. As we now remember, the outbreak of viral hepatitis in the Lugansk region, the outbreak of toxic infection in the Volin region, is now a typhoid outbreak. Today, we can talk about the fact that the work on the purchase of disinfectants at the level of the Ministry of Health has apparently turned into an event that has little expense and less efficiency. In general, it is important to say that the Ministry of Health is, rather, the Ministry of Tenders today. The previous Minister of Health, Polishchuk, went to work three weeks after his release each day to carry out as many of the tenders as possible. The prevention of infectious diseases has been and remains one of the most important problems of sanitation. The deterioration of the socio-economic, environmental situation has been significantly affected at the level of health care, preventive measures to combat internal hospital infections, outbreaks of infections. Last year alone, the highest HIV infection rate was recorded, and the number of patients increased by 17 percent. Under these conditions, it seems to us that we need to do our utmost to purchase disinfectants in sufficient quantity. It should be noted that today, imported producers who prefer to shop are no longer in favor of Ukrainian analogues. I would like to point out that today the development of the native production of “Medicomo” is the anolithic travesty of the ANC. I'd like to say that its purchase is 16.5 times lower than the foreign price and the purchase will cut the budget funding by 160 million dollars. during the period of operation of the relevant installations. We call on the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Health, to use domestic producers, such as Medic and our natives, when doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u147	We're going to sign up for “Victane”. There's an entry on the "Victane". Yes, please, on the monitors. One hour. Please, Mikola Catherinechuk. Andrew School to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! On 3 and 4 December 2005, nationals were held in Ukraine with the participation of representatives of the international community. The legal companies of the Ukrainian judiciary, the judges of the U.S. federal court, held an international forum entitled “Law and Democracy for Ukraine” on the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on 3 December 2004 to establish the results of the election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004. The objective of the forum is to bring together the legal community around the idea of the rule of law, to overcome legal nihilism, and to raise the legal awareness of Ukrainian society. The Forum adopted the following resolution. In view of the fact that the independence of the courts is one of the main pillars of democracy, the forum recognized the state’s activity. The Ukrainian authorities have been very dissatisfied with the provision of professionally impartial justice over the past 14 years. We consider it necessary to promote the practice initiated by the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine of December 3, 2004. All judicial decisions must be based on the principles of legality and the rule of law. We state that raising the authority of the court is impossible without changing the attitude of the judges themselves to their profession and without raising the legal culture of the public authorities regarding the recognition of the status of the judicial decision and the systematic approach of the public authorities to reform the judicial system. The Forum expresses its concern about halting the process of formation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which undermines the foundations of the constitutional system in Ukraine. In this regard, the Forum refers to the President of Ukraine as the guarantor of the observance of the Constitution, human rights and freedoms with the recommendation to apply the existing powers and provisions of the Basic Law in accordance with the urgent completion of the procedure for the formation of the legitimate composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by appointed judges. We stress the need to reform the legal education system, train judges, recruit judges and order of election, and appoint judges. Such reform would provide for competitive principles, for the replacement of vacant positions of judges. We call on lawyers to participate actively in the electoral process in order to ensure that it complies with international standards of fair elections and with Ukrainian legislation. We call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to propose the inclusion of the rules of appropriate legislation to guarantee the safety of lawyers in relation to their professional activities during the elections. We refer to the judicial authorities of Ukraine, the CEC, for the approval of mandatory tenders for judges and members of the electoral commission, the official observers for the resolution of disputes related to the electoral process. Resolution of the International Forum will bring to the attention of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the public. To view the forum as an ongoing annual action, which is held on December 3rd and 4th, and will facilitate the discussion by lawyers of the urgent problems of their professional activities, the issues of legislation, judiciary and legal reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u149	Andrew Schlell. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u150	School Andrews, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. I would like to point out that, literally, yesterday was the anniversary of the 2001 "Ukraine Without Couchma" campaign. Of course, I don't want to analyze many of the processes that have been going on since then, to analyze the slogans that were put out by the shareholders, the veterans of this action that Kuchma went through, the bushmishmism has remained, it's not the main thing for me. For me, the main thing is that this action ended on March 9. On March 9, when a peaceful demonstration was provoked by special services, when a criminal case was subsequently fabricated that brought about an entirely inadequate, unjustifiable punishment for those participants who participated in a peaceful demonstration on March 9th. So far, not to remove the case of 18 young boys, so far the criminal case has not been closed, for me, it has been continued by the Attorney General's Office, please note until March 26, 2006. I hope they can get me to take responsibility later. I don't know, but would you like to understand how it's assessed by the current authority of the 2001 event? How are today’s authorities assessed on March 9th? When's the rest of it going to be evaluated by these events and the young boys' trial cleared? Today my bill, my bill on the abolition of the judiciary and the rehabilitation of victims of political repression has probably been considered in the course of 2001-2004. I have this from '94 to '2004. Unfortunately, it was not time for them to get their hands on the bill. I hope that the hands will come, because no matter what the elections are, I am sure that both the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and all of us are national deputies, will give due respect to those young people who, regardless of what might be with them and the threat to life and health, have risen up in defense of democracy. I am convinced that time will put everything in place. But sometimes time has to be spent helping. I am pleased that it was from the initiative of our bloc that the Prime Minister initiated the process of starting rehabilitation. But he slowed down the beginning of the dismissal because the Attorney General's Office is doing this. I would like to thank the Association of Veterans of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for their support in removing the charges. But I would like to be heard by both the Attorney General and the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u151	Basil Nadrag. Get ready for Cossack. I don't see Cossack. Vitaly Corge gives the word, Toothpick prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u152	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Respectable colleagues, respected radio and television. I want to read you a telegram. Notification: Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Nadraga Vasili Ivanovich. “We, the inhabitants of the Great Vergunka, the streets of Stanična and Suvorova, are informing you that the money of 270,000 bracelets that Gosbujet has allocated for the construction of the underground gas pipeline has already ended. They've been through a trench 180 meters, and there's no money. The work has stopped at all. There's a mile to our streets. Where's the promised money from Gosbudget? The year is ending. Winter. There's no coal money. That's how it's done. We're just gonna die. People put money into the street pipeline. Where's the promised control, help? I really hope so. Help me. 500 inhabitants of the settlement, Lugansk, Stanično Lugansk region, Miroshničenko Raisa Constantovna.” Dear colleagues, what is the point of the problem? My parliamentary requests, which he has repeatedly made, relate to the allocation of funds for the gasification of the village of the Greater Vergunka Lugansk Region. Unfortunately, these appeals did not help to solve the problem. The ministries and departments responsible for addressing this issue are extremely irresponsible and, above all, the Ministry of Finance, which does not provide funding. Let me give you an example. A total of 420 million bracelets were to be allocated to the gasification programme for Ukraine this year. It's only 108. In the Lugansk region, only 4.8 million grevens are allocated out of 21.7 million. In Luhansk, in the Great Vergunca, where the population lost its heat in winter, only 384,000 grivens were allocated out of 2.8 million grivens. Regrettably, we listened to the budget here yesterday, and whatever we hear, the Cabinet of Ministers keeps telling us that the income portion of the budget is being implemented and overrun. In fact, funding is 10-15 per cent of what needs to be done. What's gasification? It's warm in homes where old people live, where little children, where, unfortunately, there's no centralized heating. Therefore, I ask that this appeal be considered my request as a deputy request and I believe that the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance in particular, must take all measures to ensure that we fully finance the gasification. Winter in the street, we can't leave people without warmth, we can't tell you that there's a lot of money in the budget, and the fact that ordinary people don't have basics, I'm asking requests, copies, compared to total funding, with total budget revenues, with the total numbers that we've heard here from the Cabinet of Ministers, is not the only thing we're good at with the incomes of the State. I therefore believe and hope that not only the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania, who declare their support, will also support me in this regard. People need money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u153	Valentin Zubov. To be prepared, Droguncs says the word Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u154	Valentin Zubov, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished by our radio audiences, I have received a letter from Zaporozhye for days and today I want to introduce you all to him. We, patients of the Zaporozhye District Clinic, are suffering from renal insufficiency and are forced to address you as the National Deputy of Ukraine with help and with the last hope of life. Today we are left with 130 chronic renal insufficiency patients, and every day in our lives we meet as the last because of the powerless, ruthless decisions made by government officials, members of the committee to deal with complaints by participants, and purchases from the State Department of Economics, which deprived us of artificial kidneys. The problem arose immediately after the Commission filed an order complaint with Zaporezka District Hospital of Open Trades and the purchase of waste materials for hemodialysis and hemodiasis. dialysis. As a result of the review of the complaint, the June 22th commission, ignoring our lives, cancels the bidding on the purchase of essential materials and satisfies the complaint. As a death sentence for all patients with chronic renal insufficiency, the order of Mineconomy dated 22.06 this year, number 177, approved by the commission to deal with this complaint, is contained on the official website of Mineconomy, which adds to the particular cynicism of the situation. We've run out of waste materials needed to perform hemodialysis, specific blood clearance, which has led us to lose our lives and die of renal insufficiency. We have repeatedly addressed this tragedy to the media, to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, under the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, demanding that we purchase the equipment and materials necessary for our lives. However, all our petitions and supplications have remained ignored by officials, which only testifies to the fate of our hard life. It's a shame that the people's power in the same person as the Mineconomy that people have chosen, standing and freezing in the Midans under the slogans and flags of the Orange Revolution, is destroying us, taking away our constitutionally established right to life. Why can’t we live with what we or our loved ones owe to officials who leave us with our lives because we can’t all exist without an artificial kidney? Dear friends, dear Adam Ivanovich, this is about the pain of very ill people and we have no right to stay away. That's why I'm asking my speech to consider as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office to file a criminal case against the officials of the Ministry of Economics who led people to this state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u155	Katerina Samuelk. Verni Dubov gives the word, prepare for Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u156	Dear voters. For a year, as we live in the orange hole, this is the year of unfulfilled hopes, the year of destruction of the governance system, the catastrophic collapse of authority, the year of selfishness, the year of surrendering the interests of Ukraine. The President's program is empty words that we are. We hear it every day. What makes him different from Kuchma? He was talking about living in the Chernobyl area as a paradise. He went, Yushchenko went to Chernobyl and said that it was necessary to turn Ukraine into a thorough Chernobyl cemetery. Practically, the “appelsin’s power” is ruining the government’s housing programme for young people. And yesterday's review of the state budget is this confirmation. Hundreds of thousands of young people are in line for housing, and only 7,000 have received these loans. Genius Pinzenic has introduced a partial compensation program for the interest rate of commercial banks on the purchase of housing for young families. But think about this loan rate, it goes from 12 to 20 percent in currency. So, thanks to Mr. Pinzenik, the cost of the apartment increases twice as much as if you bought it right away. The committee is filled with despair by the letters of the young families, whom the government, Pinzenic, had thrown into a stalemate. Young people from Sum, Kiev, Ivano-Frankivsk, Dnipropetrovsk and Lugansk don't know what to do, because no one is making up for this bet. And I feel that the authorities, especially through their banks, are turning state money around. During meetings, youths ask, Where is a million jobs, a decent salary? Open your eyes, Mr. President! More than just your children, dear friends, and besties, they want to live! Our youth is worthy of a better life. What did they have in store for them? Unemployment. Unavailability of education. Where's your promise: re-establishing 10-year high school education from the 5th ball system. Instead, the Bologna Process, which lowers the level of higher education. Where is the respect for history, for the veterans who were declared? You have split up and continue to divide Ukraine into yours and yours. It's dangerous. It's a state crime. You have families out of the ocean, our children here because this is where their land, their homeland, lives. The faction of the Ukrainian Company requires the President's "orange" to ensure the exercise of constitutional rights. Today, you are demonstrating the inability to protect the interests of the state. We propose to adopt the Ukrainian Law on the impeachment of the President urgently and to begin this process until the authorities of nationalists and socialists have brought about the loss of Ukraine's sovereignty, the transformation of it, the complete transformation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u157	Mikola Komar. To prepare David.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Party of the Regions once again stresses that the efforts of the acting authorities to bring our country into WTO urgently are not in line with the national interests of the country, given the unprecedented progress made by the sovereign State in the negotiation process. We're not going against membership in the World Trade Organization, it's a global trend that we're not going anywhere. But hastyness and, as a result, positioning in the negotiating process leads to the destruction of the domestic producer and the emergence of systemic problems in the Ukrainian economy. Judging from the statements made by the leaders of the World Trade Organization, our country does not shine light on WTO membership this year. This enables us to move from the populist crackdown to the analysis of the consequences of Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. The faction of the Party of the Regions realizes the importance of the country's advocacy of its national interests in a globalizing environment. We believe that Ukraine should cease to be a state governed by its borders of sovereignty. Our country has become a player, not a pawn on the world's maps. Unlike today’s situation, Ukraine’s fate should not be determined by a delicate balance in triangle relations: the United States — Russia — the EU. Ukraine must take place as a full - fledged sovereign and subject of international politics and economics. Unlike today's government, which has made the process of joining the WTO a fix idea, we propose to make membership in international organizations a tool for strengthening, not weakening Ukraine's sovereignty. The regional party is responding to the introduction problem by taking into account the level of adaptation of WTO standards to the needs of the Ukrainian economy. The rapprochement with the global community does not come down to integration into the WTO at any cost. The criterion of relevance should be the promotion of national interests, not the conjuncture of an internal political moment. Our demands. Set a transition period for WTO entry and go through the adaptation period that all member countries have been through. During this term, raise the level of protective tariff barriers to the production of domestic producers to the level of developed countries, reconcile the process of joining the WTO with the Russian Federation, and take into account the mutual interests of the two nations. Competition must be a priority for the development of the national economy. Enhancing the competitiveness of the sectors of the Ukrainian economy The Party of Regions sees it as a major criterion that should analyse the relevance of Ukraine's accession to the WTO. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u159	Sophia David’s. Get ready. Rajkov gave the word to Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u160	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Today I want to draw the attention of the government, the Supreme Council, to the problem of rural schools. First of all, it is a reconstruction and capital repair of old buildings and the construction of new schools. For some reason this problem is not being given enough attention in our country, and I think it's really a problem. Let me give you just a few examples. Year after year, lists of objects proposed for funding from State Budget subsidies to local budgets are formed. And each time, the construction of public schools in villages, villages of the urban type is included in the census. However, once the list has been formed and approved by the Cabinet, these objects have been forgotten. By what principle are these lists formed? Why is the construction of schools in rural areas a secondary object? Each time a reply from the Prime Minister or Minister is received, it is noted that no expenditure is available for the construction of this school in the State Budget. And this issue, according to legislation, can be resolved at the expense of local budgets. But if local budgets had the right funds, would it be a matter of depriving them of the State budget? An example. The village of Alexandrovka in the region of Kharkiv Agriculture Enterprise “New Life”. Since 1999, at the expense of his own funds, he's been building first-third-degree damage to 264 students. The first line of the school has been put into operation. But there is not enough to complete the construction. And the state owed the farm one and a half million dollars of money invested in the construction of this school. On several occasions, my request to the Prime Minister to help with the cost allocation for the construction of this school is the standard answer: that this object has not entered and that the issue of the allocation of funds can be resolved on condition. - and so on, again with the same text. Many of these examples are not just in my district. The draft budget, which we received before the first reading, provided for a subsidy from the State Budget to the local budgets, but the second reading was no longer about repairing rural schools, and somehow these schools in rural areas were lost. I would like to refer to another problem in rural school that we have children from several villages who go to the same school. But there is something else we need to get to this school. What's that? The Rural Bus program has not yet been implemented, and children go miles to rural school. And yet, children are learning, entering higher education institutions. There may be much more to talk about, but perhaps the time has come when something must be done. We need to think about those children who live there, are born, are raised, are taught. These are our children, this is our gene pool, our nation's hope. And I think they have a right to human learning conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u161	Alexander Chevchenko. Get ready for Yankovsky. I can't see Yankovsky. Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u162	Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dniproperty, Voyage Block of Vladimir Litvina. I would very much like to draw the attention of all of our audiences and our radio audiences to the fact that 39 constituencies in the past are now the 38th part of the district. When someone defined the districts that would go and hold parliamentary elections, it was both transparent and clear, and democratic that even national MPs learned about it from the press, from the decisions of the CBC, from the website. I would like to point out that if we didn't divide the districts, we wouldn't have to do that. But from how successful our nation's budget will be, from how successful our promises we make as our nation's annual budget will be, from how successful citizens will be today's 39th district is the Sinelnikovsky region, Vasilkovsky district, the borders. the cities of Sinelnikov and Petrshotravnevsk. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to three questions of the individual, but they are all united by one budget. Today’s budget provides underfunding for a number of social programs, including gasification. Today’s budget does not allow questions about the computerization of schools and school buses. Today's budget does not allow us to carry out one of the major tasks of reinvigorating the fishing industry for Ukraine. If we're talking about the distribution and protection of living water resources and the regulation of fisheries, it's within the framework of this programme that we have budgetary institutions of conservation and fishing facilities, I would like to say that complex programmes for the further development of infrastructure and economic activity on the island of Snake and Continental Shelf, and a comprehensive programme of activities for the cessation of illegal fishing by foreign vessels in the territorial sea and the exclusive economic zone of Ukraine, as well as the in-depth programme for inland waters and the Azo-Black Sea basin. It seemed a long way from us, but we know that fish stocks in the world's oceans are running out, and we don't use a million acres of fish-lake dancing in our country. And I would like to say that the funds that are foreseen for this year are few, but they do not, unfortunately, arrive on time. And I've been making some adjustments to the budget with a number of deputies, and unfortunately, they're out of budget, and we've seen the processes happen in the hall yesterday when the budget was adopted. What's unacceptable is, of course, unpleasant for everyone. But what I'd like to say is, we're going to put great hope on the government, on the local administrations, that they're going to do everything they can to get social programs funded, including gasification. We put great hopes on the government that the fishing industry will get. Indeed, it is worth keeping that we fight poachers, restore stocks, and feel like a state that is not just a monopoly, but a serious player in the fish market.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin. Get ready. I can't see Polack. Levin passed on the word. Kadenjuk, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u164	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable colleagues, respected fellow citizens. Here they were intimidated by the impeachment of the national president of Ukraine. I understand it's the pink dream of everyone who's been conducting criminal revolutions and trying to make a counter-revolution. That won't happen. I would like to call for peace and peaceful cooperation in the state. And I'm forced to take the floor for violating the constitutional rights of our fellow countrymen to information, freedom of thought and words, to work, to engage in entrepreneurial activities as a result of the ban on trade in printed information in Kiev. The decision of the General Directorate of Urban Planning, Architecture, and Urban Design effectively prohibits the issuing of passports for the placement of small architectural forms, as the kiosks call the press trade. The decision is based on a letter dated October 26, 2005, from KMDA’s deputy head, with the resolution of the city’s head, Omelchenka. However, this letter is not a normative act and is subject to mandatory execution. However, the application of proposals for the completion of small forms and the issuance of permits led to the termination of passports for kiosks of the Open Shareholders Association, the Union Printing Agency, other press distributors, the unilateral termination of contracts for the development of construction works between business entities and the Accounting Organization “Centre of Construction and Architecture”. It prevented local government authorities from obtaining permits for trade and commercial patents in district tax inspections. The VAT “Soyuzprint Agency” and other press outlets from January 1, 2006, will be forced to stop their press activity more than 200 kiosks in the main and central streets of the city. Massively lay off their employees, which will inevitably lead to their difficult material situation. Under these circumstances, can we talk about the organization of numerous programs and the commission of the President and the government to create jobs? Publishers and distributors of print media, carefree citizens concerned about halting the location of small architectural forms from the sale of press, which, together with the uncertainty of the distribution of press in Kiev’s metropolis, can lead to an almost complete halt in the implementation of newspapers and magazines Frg_00536*001*086&lt;13:27: 02&gt; In most parts of Kiev. In the context of articles 5, 12, 13, 15 of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition, we see signs of unfair competition, of anticompetitive concerted action, when everyone is driven into the so-called “mediaholding” of people from other countries, both Israel and Switzerland, and from other countries. The creation of advantages for individual companies in the distribution of printed media, the establishment of a monopoly position is observed. The officials of the internal affairs agencies, the Delilian and Darnicki authorities, the Kiev City Prosecutor’s Office, are involved in these matters. As a result of baseless, illegal checks on publishers and broadcasters, I am addressing and asking you to consider this as a parliamentary request to the President, to the Attorney-General and to the General.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Leonid Kadenuk. Get ready, Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u166	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Address to the President of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine. We plant workers in the agricultural sector of Hotchishland are deeply concerned about the current situation in the fruit market in Ukraine. Working in extremely complex financial conditions, with constant increase in fuel oil materials, fertilizers, plant protection products, techniques, lack of long-term credit, gardeners can barely make ends meet. Despite these difficult circumstances, however, the Hottinian gardeners spend considerable money on intensive gardening technology, growing modern varieties of fruit, creating new jobs, paying the lion's share of taxes on budgets of different levels. The produce produced in the fertile land of Hotinsk is valued not only in Ukraine but also in Russia, Belarus, and, even, in the countries of Europe. Under the conditions of small-scale agriculture, more and more farmers are trying to restore the glory of the gardening industry in the country, to bring it to a global level, to achieve good results, to achieve good results, but Ukraine's tariff and mythical policy on agricultural production puts our gardener on his knees and forces him to work in a cost-effective manner. I do not want to believe that the agricultural sector of Ukraine is not needed and that everything is done to destroy it and create conditions for the acquisition of the fruit market by foreign producers. Our country's inconsistent and unfavourable policy of Russian-Ukrainian relations has made it economically advantageous to export fruit to Russia's largest market. The people of the Hittites, for whom gardening is the foundation of prosperity and is not the only means of survival, are ready for radical action. We are deeply convinced that we are supported by the gardeners of Winnitzchin, Crimea, Cherkaščina, and other regions of Ukraine, who have participated on numerous occasions in international seminars held on the basis of the hottinian gardening. Gardeners continue to cope with this situation because in 2005 the gardening sector became a failure. We want the peasant to work quietly and be confident that the leadership of the country, by adopting the Ukrainian law on the protection of the national producer, on the application of special measures on imports into Ukraine, will implement these laws, which will allow the introduction of modern technologies, the cultivation of new varieties, the creation of jobs, the filling of state and local budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u167	Victor Bunny, prepare for Radio.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw today's attention to the individual politicians of our faction of the Supreme Council from the Movement, who are increasingly raising questions about the formation of a special commission on the Black Sea Navy. Nevertheless, not only education, but it is increasingly said and reported on facts that have no or no basis, but only today do they exacerbate those treaty obligations between our States and make very many obstacles to the deterioration of those relations. This is an outrage today, fair to my constituents, which has led to some destabilization in the town of Sevastopol. And I would like all of us to work together to ensure that the fragile peace that was gained in 1992 in this city is maintained in our State, and that those policies should be given to the two leaders of the States that are now leading the inter-Ukrainian and Russian Commission on these issues, these are the presidents of the two States. And I think they're going to decide how it fits in with the inter-State treaties. And I'd like to give you a few lines of respectable policy: You thought it was in order, and you changed the way it was, But they were three times as poor as themselves. You thought it was a matter of purpose, and you changed your mind, and the goal of reaching thirty lands, You were thinking about the money when you got to the money, More fraud and atrocities have become inconceivable. You've changed your sewing to soap and your property to rights. Maybe you had to change yourself first. I wish to change my mind, to change my mind, to change my words, to make my statements, and to have this change serve today to strengthen our State, to strengthen our brotherly ties that have been and will be forever. And we will do everything, my constituents, all those who share our position in our State in order to strengthen the friendship of our peoples and to ensure that no one makes the insults, the doubts that the existence of treaties that are now in existence is inviolable to their fulfilment and respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u169	Mikhailo Rodionov, next Jaroslav Suhi, I don't see Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u170	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable radio audiences! I would like to point out that the day is coming for us, given that yesterday we discussed the 2006 budget -- this budget is not adopted, but to focus on the aspects that await us? I want to say right away that what is good, especially for those who earn money, is their work — teachers, workers, farmers — is not good for them. It seems that the current Government does not know what to do with this unhappiness of 24 billion. bracelets obtained from the sale to foreigners of Krivoroztali. And it fell on them like a snowy coma, and they're dragging it from one log to another, but there's no such thing as selling it. What's more, one of the people's deputies said yesterday: you know, you've been offering housing there, and you've been offering housing since Soviet times. Surprisingly, that hatred of the Soviet past for those who have left Soviets has received free education, all that needs to be done. And I want to say, yes, indeed, this is a turn of events from Soviet times, like all that we sell, like all that we try to break up, is from the Soviet past. The same "Criminal" and all businesses and factories. For 15 years now, Ukraine has not created anything that can be sold, whether or not it is said to be passed on, except for three presidents who, if added, may have been taken by someone. This is what has been done. But the other question is, what do we do when we sell it all out? Well, it's going to be over sometime with the Soviets we sold out. It turns out there's already a budget in it that there's a way out. Page 98 for deputies and 104, see the sale of land, including foreigners. True, foreigners were given a special condition in an open competition. And I think it's a good radio listener, and why don't we just evaluate Ukraine anyway, right? Not to see how much it costs to sell it with your own people. You see, this power is still in place for 10 to 15 years. That's where we're going. Therefore, all honest people also. The Communist Party says that for Ukraine to remain, the power must be given to the people, and it must work for its people, not count every year as much as we are dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u171	Victor Taran. Yes, I can't see Turmanov. Slabenko passed on the word of Lilia Grigorovich. If he can get there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u172	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Respectable citizens who still hope to recover their savings! I would like to welcome you, at least by adopting the Sasa, Teren and other Members of the Yulia Timoshenko Block Act yesterday on channeling funds from the reprivatisation of the “Criminal” to investors, and this is a victory for common sense. And so we're going to be looking for a fair index of savings, and we're going to be trying to adopt a law on the return of funds to fraudulent investors of trusts, a bill that's developed, registered in the Supreme Council, and, by the way, it was developed with the government of Julia Timoshenko. And the channelling of the “Criminals” to the return of savings shows that the funds in the state are, would be political will. But today, Russian gas collectors demand that Ukraine pay a thousand cubic feet of gas for $230-260, that's when the world price is $110-130. Such a high price that Russia presents to us, not the Russian people, but the Russian gasomagnates, probably so high the price that it takes into account our common roots in Kiev, which is something that it likes to talk about so often. And all I want to say is that when we're presented with these accounts, we don't go into a confrontation that we don't want, but when we talk. Similarly, we have to present Russia’s accounts for 135 billion rubles, which were transferred back in 1991 from Ukrainian savings books to Moscow savings, and never returned, an account for the unsegregated gold diamond fund of the former Soviet Union, and finally for the lease of the Russian fleet, the normal price should be displayed because when we are told that the price of gas is rising, the price of land rent triples. And here the government really has to show firmness, not capitalism. And here there is no doubt that Julia Timoshenko would have long resolved the issue of gas supply to Ukraine without giving up the national interests of Ukraine, as she has been able, using the definition, to “bubble” in the summer of the spoiled Russian oilworks, until it was banned by what is called gunfire to solve the problem of gas and oil. And that's why it's amazing how the price of 50 dollars per thousand cubic meters goes into the budget today. And it's a colossal bomb under the budget and under the future government. And so there's really nothing to wonder why, in particular, our faction didn't vote in favour of this budget. I'm just going to remind you again that the budget proposed by Timoshenko was voted 375 deputies in this room. And so, unfortunately, today's government is demonstrating its time as deliberate as it is, and it's demonstrating that it's short-lived, as the Poles say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u173	Lilia Grigorovitch is gone. Mikhail Kosov, please. Deaf, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u174	Dear compatriots, I think you understand, listening both yesterday and today's performances in this hall, which actively began the election campaign -- and, according to national wisdom, each dove praises its own swamp, everyone tries to harm someone else, and on this, it's built up so far a pathologist from performances in the Supreme Council. Unlike my colleague and previous speaker, I'm going to say, Victor, it is unfortunate that the State Budget Act of Ukraine was not adopted yesterday. And I don't have time to detail why I'm sorry. It seems to me that Ludmila Pavlovna, acting as head of the Committee on Budgets, made this very clear and made it clear yesterday, and she counted that the budget was positive. While there is no doubt and, and there are negatives, there is no such thing that the interests of all parties in the state budget are equally satisfied. And one more thing I'd like to support Ludmila Pavlovna is that about this draft budget that was presented to us two weeks ago, and the one that we got before the vote yesterday, it contains very important and distressing differences to me. Do we have this, you know, habit that somehow the budget changes on the last night? Rather than allowing people to sleep at night and generally, well, not to continue, there is a change in the budget at night. I couldn't agree with this last version of the budget because there are a lot of imbalances. For example, when the first version of John Frank’s memorial year was 18 million, the second one was 14.5, and the second one was 6.5 million. But you can't do that, gentlemen, because, look, I don't mind, even though there's a discussion about the restoration of the tenth church in Kiev and the creation of the Art arsenal. But that's 45 million dollars. Well, well, let's say there's an increase of 6 million 811 thousand in creative societies, 12 million in literary and artistic magazines, and it's wonderful that 800,000 are singled out for the Crimson Light and, at the same time, 800,000 have been allocated to the Crimson Light, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u175	You can't. You said you couldn't take it. Lew Glukhowski, please. Yes, Uncle. I can't see. That's it, Ratchet. All right, Chubarov, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u176	Thank you. Lew Glukhovsky, Faction of the People’s Movement. Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow national MPs and radio listeners. In this statement, I want to draw your attention to one of the dates of our history that came this week, which is the 115th anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian politician, Andrija Melnik. Andrew Melnik was born on December 12, 1890, in a peasant family in the village of Voli Yakoubov near Drogobic. Upon graduating from the Austrian high school, he joined the Vienna Higher School of Land in 1912. But from the beginning of World War I, he was among the volunteers in the legion of Ukrainian retinal archers. In one of the battles against the Russian army near the town of Berežana, he was captured and held in a Russian camp near the Kingdom. There he met another Ukrainian, a prisoner of war, Eugene Konovaltz, who played a decisive role in his political maturity. Their fates continued to flow. Together, after the October Bolshevik coup in Russia, they flee from captivity and rush, covered with an independent chance for Ukraine, to Kiev, where they create the Galic-Bukovin chicken, which was later transformed into the glorious military formation of the Sicily Sagittarius, the foundation of the operational army of the U.N.R., where Andrew Melnik becomes Colonel and heads the headquarters. As a result of the defeat of the U.N.R. caused by the Bolshevik invasion, its activities continue to take place in the territories occupied by Poland. In a subversive Ukrainian military organization, he is appointed as the commander of the country. Shortly thereafter, he was arrested and imprisoned for four years. After the murder in 1938 by an NKVD agent, a Sudoplatin terrorist in Rotterdam, U.N. leader Eugene Konovaltz, Andrew Melnik replaces him. At the second large UN congregation in Rome in 1939, he was elected head of the UN, and he was in that position for the rest of his life, until 1964. Meanwhile, in the years of the Fascist occupation, he was a prisoner of the German concentration camp, and in the early 1960s he organized the World Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. They were in his activities and failures. And the main one is the split in the 40th year of the Ukrainian nationalist movement into two branches, which are still known as Melnik and Banderov. This, of course, weakened the Ukrainian national-liberal movement and significantly pushed against the future of Ukrainian independence by their grandparents and parents. It's a shame that the lessons from this have not yet been properly learned, there have been many divisions in our national-liberal movements. As a member of the Ukrainian People's Movement, I have two splits in motion. The first was when the movement was still a public organization and the second was when it became a political party. And a very recent split in the orange camp, it's also our pain and this split we have to overcome before the March elections. Returning to the title of Andrew Melnik, it is important to note, however, that the creation of an independent, consecrated Ukrainian State in 91 years is a celebration and an idea that was directed by the longtime leader of the UN, Andrew Melnik, who is as bright as the memory of Simon Pettlar, Eugene Konovaltz, Stephen Bender, and other prominent actors of the Ukrainian National Liberation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u177	Please, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to inform you that on December 9-11, the fourth session of the Fourth Criminal Court of the Crimean Tatar people, the higher representative body of the Crimean Tatar people, took place in Simferopol. Over the course of three days, the Kurultai delegates, who are chosen by the Crimean Tatars themselves for a term of five years, have considered the most pressing issues for the Crimean Tatars, which have returned to their lands after decades of exile. In particular, the land issue, as well as the status of the rights and freedoms of Crimean Tatars. On all the issues discussed at the Kurulta sessions of the Crimean Tatar people, appropriate decisions were taken. They will surely be brought to the knowledge of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the heads of government. Today, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Kurultai of the Crimean Tatar people has made a decree to recognize as an act of genocide the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people on May 18, 1944, a decade of violent detention of Crimean Tatars in places of exile and the consequences of these crimes. The document adopted by Kurulta by the Crimean Tatar people refers to the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, calling for the official recognition of the criminal deportation of the Crimean Tatar people as one of the unprecedented facts of genocide and initiation on behalf of Ukraine of the same legal assessment by the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u179	Thank you. Yeah, that's okay, because there's time, we've already announced Lilia Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u180	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear voters, distinguished national MPs. One of the benefits of democracy is not only freedom of speech, but also the ability to use it. I mean a case or precedent that happened to something last week when the President of Ukraine, while in the zone of exclusion of the Chernobyl AES, made a hypothesis about the probability of dumping harmful wastes in this dead zone. This hypothesis was expressed at a number of international conferences, and the President, as a guarantor of the rights and freedoms of his people, repeated it in that city and at that time for a perfectly logical purpose. It is quite clear that the vast majority of society will say everything against it and then the President will be able to say again to the same international community: “My people are against it because plebiscite has taken place.” That is why I would like to reassure our “hot heads” both in Parliament and beyond about the fact that after the Chernobyl disaster, in the Blackwater AES alienation zone, there will be more burials, only as the Ukrainian people wish. And the President, in a democratic way, gave our society the opportunity to carry out this plebiscite, to express its position, and then to engage in the thought of their people. At the same time, honourable voters, I would like to highlight the events that took place yesterday. In the morning, each morning, the chairman of the session of the Supreme Council sums up what we had done last day, how many laws we had voted down, how many laws we had rejected. But, dear friends, I mean, arithmetic is very interesting, those massive laws that actually want to do everything that they haven't done in 70 years, plus 14 in the social sphere, are impossible to do. The proposals made by the President are certainly not always supported in this room, because the problem alone is that we do not have a parliamentary majority. So yesterday, when the Ukrainian people lost, this morning, after reviewing the fresh press of independent experts, journalists of our fourth authority, I found that I lost the Ukrainian people yesterday, because from January 1st, people won't get higher wages and pensions, let's say 18 bucks, let's say 25 percent for the country's medics, but this last year and the last year. People will live under the 2005 budget. In view of that, I would like to emphasize that. Dear voters, you saw yesterday, you saw developments. I assure you it wasn't to make the budget like it was in France or Germany. Because it takes a few years of stable, earning and passing development budgets. Everything was done for one thing worse, the better for a political purpose. I ask that the next parliamentary election be evaluated to the forces that are working exclusively for themselves. These forces yesterday you saw, the voices were also counted, and you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-16-m0.u181	Yes, thank you. But Lila Stepanovna doesn't have to tell the President what he thought, speaking of pleasing the world community. We need to comment. And 2006 hasn't started yet. He'll start, then he'll say, he'll be taken away or he won't. There is still time until 2006. And no one has ever said that the budget is not accepted or accepted. Let's see. Why Hurry? Yes, dear colleagues, it's incredible, but the fact that there's only six minutes of opportunity left, but those who want to speak, it's the first time, it's the first time in our history, there's no. Thus, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on December 20th. Good luck.
