ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:10:58]] It was registered in the 408 National Deputies Sessional Hall. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitri Alexandrovich Rudkowski. Let us welcome him and wish him health and success. Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at the plenary meeting on 22 December 2005. 30 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 17 laws and six regulations were passed, two bills were adopted on a basis, one bill was designed to be drafted, three bills and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of the President’s proposals, two laws have been passed in a new edition. Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies Boyk Volodymyr Semenović, Matvienkov Sergy Anatoliyovich and Timoshenko Viktor Anatoliyovich into the membership of the Socialist Party's parliamentary faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Poor Igor Ivanovich, into the composition of the Party of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the basis of the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary group "Rebirth" on 21 December 2005, I inform of the change of the MP group "Rebirth" to the parliamentary faction of the political party "Rebirth" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The composition of the MP's faction of 16 people's deputies. Kisse Anton Ivanovich, director of the faction, Prowsky Mikol Ivanovich, Gabrielus Vasil Vasilovich, Konovluk Valerius Ilić, Frančuk Anatolia Romanović, was elected as the authorized representatives of the faction. I'm just asking the faction and leadership of the faction no longer to be renamed by the New Year. Dear national deputies, according to Friday’s Rules, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the national deputies with proposals, requests, statements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Yes. Here comes the recording. On the board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up. Yes, there have been questions from Ukrainian national deputies. The Group of Deputies to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Minister of Foreign Affairs regarding the secret meeting of the President of Ukraine with the Director of Central Intelligence, Porter Goss, on 16 December 2005, and possible threats to Ukraine's national security. [[SHUFRIC, SURMA, FIX]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:14:46]] For-153 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:15:08]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Alexander GOLUBA to the President of Ukraine for the preservation of the Museum of the Eminent Ukrainian Painter John Chróstecki in the city of Pochayev of Ternopil. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:15:37]] For 139 The decision is not supported. Jury SOLOMATANA and Igor ŠURMI to the President of Ukraine on the non-information and response to the request of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to establish the illegal involvement of a citizen of the Russian Federation with refugee status in Britain of Berezowski in financing the election campaign of a candidate for President Viktor Yushchenka. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:16:17]] For-157. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:16:37]] For-142 The decision is not taken. Anatolya Prysterna and Igor ŠURMI to the President of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Attorney-General concerning the failure to respect the principle of legality in the activities of the National Council on Television and Radio and Unjustification of Disposal of TET in individual cities of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:17:14]] For 133 Request not supported. Jury SOLOMATANA to the President of Ukraine on the establishment of an inter-ministerial commission to deal with the legal basis, mechanism and procedure for the return to the budget of Ukraine of the national funds stolen by former Prime Minister Lazarusenko and his associate Timoshenko. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:17:48]] For 134 Request not supported. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister for the Social Protection of Volunteers and Military Servants, who were appointed to the military assemblies to perform the work of eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. MICHELLE’S Head of the Supreme Council for Illegal Decisions of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the completion of the gasification of Military City No. 115 in the village of Berezovka in the Zitomir region. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Prime Minister to assist in the completion of the construction of the temple in the village of Tápche in the region of Ivano-Frankow. Mikoli COMARA to the Prime Minister on dealing with the problems of bankrupt enterprises in the formation of State Budget Project indicators for 2006. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science on rural education financing. Istwana HYDOSH to the Prime Minister, Head of the Holding Fund, for the transfer of military city property complexes to municipal property. Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Prime Minister for the benefit of the disabled of the Great Homeland War by means of a means of transport. Georgia BUIKA to the Prime Minister on the abuse of the leadership of the former KSP “Ukraine” and its successor “Karat-2” with the head of a large cattle, a violation of the property rights of residents of the village of Kamyanka in the region of Kharkiv. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the completion of the gasification of the villages of the Zitomir region. Mr Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Ladzhynka in the region of Cherkas region. MICHELLE CAMERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister for the recovery of the funds of Skarżinetska Rural Council of the Hemlinsky district of Winnitsk Region. Efima FIXA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Montenegrin Regional Administration for the Restructuring of Payments Debt, provided for in Article 57 of the Education Act, pedagogical, scientific and pedagogical and other categories of teaching staff in the region of Montenegro. The Prime Minister, Head of the Kirovograd Regional Government Administration for the Renewal of Productive Activities at the State Holding Company “Alexandriaugil” and the liquidation of debts on the wages of miners. Valery BORZOVA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Kirovograd District Government Administration, on the gasification of the villages of Onufriyiv region. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, on the financing of the health sector and on the adjustment of inter-skilled ratios in the payment of medical workers. Anatolia HIRSCHFELDA to the Prime Minister on the situation at the state-owned enterprise “Harkowske Fitting Plant Shevchenka”. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the provision of local budgets in the Chernigiv region with fees paid for energy carriers. TO THE Prime Minister for the preservation of the National Archives Heritage. Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, the Head of the Board for the formation of a clear Ukrainian information policy in the inter-State relations between Ukraine and Russia and other SND countries, whose absence has been used by the Kremlin in turn in gas blackmail, in an effort to undermine Ukraine’s authority in the world and to cause irreparable harm in relations between two fraternal nations, practically fuelling national hostility between them. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister for the pension provision of military personnel in Luhansk. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister, Attorney-General, on the violation by the National Tax Administration of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services in the Introducing of Accounting Books and the unjustified increase in financial burden on business entities. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Fuel and Energy for Consumer Rights Violations in the conduct of population calculations for electricity consumption by the Volnova district electricity network. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Melnik concerning the repayment of the debt from the remuneration of the shareholders of the Belozersky and the Herson region of the Holocaust. Ms. Omelana PARUBKA and Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko about the establishment of a disabled phone and a group, a member of the fighting activities of a resident of the city of Talny Cherkas region. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko on a shameful phenomenon that has been artificially created by “Symptom” and “Symposium”, without distributing Ukrainian newspapers, books and magazines throughout the country. Anatoly of Domansky and Mikhail Rodionov to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko on the persecution of the Director of Kiev's higher vocational school of construction and transport. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko concerning the granting of disability status to individual citizens in accordance with the Act on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the gravity of the investigation into a criminal case involving a murder attempt. Larissa VACHENCO to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, on the legality of the actions of officials of the State’s executive and judicial authorities regarding the Condratenko family. JANUARY to the Attorney General’s Office for the Control of the Investigation of Officials of the Sierra d’Ivoire City Council. Michael ZUBZA to the Attorney-General for the misconduct of the Prosecutor of the Jarmolinec district of Hmelnicka district regarding the Director of Research of Proscury. Gregory OMELČENA to the Attorney-General regarding the provision of an objective pretrial investigation into the case of the official falsification of documents and the dissolution of salaries and other payments in the amount of more than 125,000 dollars by the Attorney-General, the Chief of the Supreme Court, the Chief Justice of the Eudecimal and other officials who were appointed co-existents of the National Academy of Taxation. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney-General for a formal hearing by the Attorney-General of the Suman area of the MP’s request and for failure to take action to give proper assessment of the activities and inactions of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Krolevetsky region. Alexander MASSENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Supreme Economic Court, Minister of Justice for the Rule of Law for the Reformation and Use of the Food and Agriculture Association members of the Orgic Region of the Poltava Region. Peter DIMINSKI to the Attorney General for violating the leadership of the National Shareholder Company NaftoGaz Ukraine Act. Alexander BONDARCHUKA to the Attorney General regarding the improper examination of the complaints of the residents of the hostels located on the street of Town in Kiev. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Attorney General for the review of the criminal case and for the verification of the correctness of the conviction of a Polish citizen. Jurija KOSTENKA to the Attorney General, Ministry of Health for the Protection of Insulin Domestic Production – the conservation of the Indar plant, the cessation of pressure on businesses by law enforcement, tax authorities. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General’s Office for the application of a criminal conviction. Ms. Anatolia NALIVAYKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the State Customs Office, for ignoring requests from members of the national parliaments for non-corruption among customs officials. Anatolya KLIMINA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board on the misconduct of officials of the North-Regional Customs Service regarding the company “BILPROM”. John DRACH to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the observance of moral standards, the decisions of the prosecutor, the law and the Constitution by the Mayor of Peace and City Alexander Poutov. Leonida KADENUKA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the General Office for Consumer Rights with regard to infringement by the private entrepreneur of the buyer’s rights. LEVA BIRJUKA to the Attorney General regarding the signs of the organization of corruption schemes by the leaders of the Hmelnick District Attorney’s Office for the Office of the Attorney General. Teams of deputies to the Attorney General on electronic tax errors. [[DEMOKHAN, JANKOVSKI, AND OTHERS]] Yulia YOFFE and Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney-General for the violation of the rights of Beckett's citizen, the obstruction of her professional legal protection by the officials of the prosecutor's office in the city of Severodonecka. Tamara Proscurating to the Attorney General on violations of the rights of a citizen in defence. Mr Vojša to the Attorney General, Head of State Tax Administration, on the violation by officials of the tax police and the Prosecutor's Office of the Herson area of the requirements of the Law on Citizens' Appeal. Efima FIXA to the Attorney General regarding the illegal cessation by the Montenegrin Ministry of the right to use the land on lease terms. Anatolya PISTARENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, regarding deforestation and the illegal construction of residential buildings in the Makarov district’s natural protection strip. WOLDODIMARY ZAJIJA to the Attorney General on the payment of salaries to former shareholders of the “Requirement for Coal” Association of the Donetsk Region. Vadim MISURA and Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney-General on the involvement of officials of the Kirov District Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the professional activities of journalists of the newspaper Kirovets and preventing the free circulation of information. Anatolia Seminogui to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the CEVC on bringing responsibility to those responsible for the distribution of false information that discredits the activities of the political party “Universal Union of the Fatherland”, degrades the honour and dignity of its leader, Yulia Timoshenko. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General about the abuse of office as head of the board of the “Budmaterials” of Winnitsa. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Economics, for improper actions directed by the sanctions of a complex mineral fertilizer plant and the replacement of an investor. Alexander MASSENKA to the Attorney-General on the legality of the use of land and property by owners, members of the “True” Agriculture Society of the Orgitsky region of Poltavian Region. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Attorney General for the purpose of helping individual prosecutors of the Zalishti district of Ternopil district to avoid the criminal responsibility of individuals and the improper examination of the facts reported in the parliamentary appeals. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Defense for the Criminal Investigation of Military Officer Oleg Buryanov. Oleg BILORUS to the Minister of Education and Science, Minister for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Ministry of Health, Head of the Odessa District State Administration for the conduct of housekeeping checks in Odessa. VICTOR MIRANENNA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the provision of working papers and certificates to the seaman. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMOPLAV TO THE Minister of Culture and Tourism on duplicating, sounding, and subtitling foreign films in Ukrainian. Mr. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the unsatisfactory work of the Directorate General of the Ministry of Interior in the Kyiv region to ensure the preservation of the property of citizens. Georgia BUIKA to the Minister of Transport and Communications, Head of the Association of International Automobiles in charge of the Ministry's decision on the restructuring of the State Enterprise Ukrinteravtoservis. Ms. Soboljeva to the Minister of Education and Science on the legality of the activities of the Zaporozhye District Education and Science Administration in a competition to replace the vacant post of Director of the Kuybishev Professional Agrarian List. MICHAYLA RODIONOVA to the minister of industrial policy for the failure to pay wages and conditions of work and rest at the Kiev plant of Petrovsky’s name. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing in order to repay the State's debt for housing and utility services in front of housing and utility companies. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the announcement of the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the anti-Ukrainian allegations of Russian return to the Russian Federation's Crimea in the context of Russia's “gas war” against Ukraine. Stepan HMARI to the Minister of Education and Science for Renewal at the post of Rector of the Dnipropetrov National University of the Academy of Sciences of Vladimir Prisnakov. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Minister of Internal Affairs for non-payment to the Open Shareholder Society for the 2004 work done in the village of Tchaikino Chernigiv. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Minister of Social Policy and the work on the improvement of the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of the Population affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the appointment of a “Black Obilian Fellowship” to higher education students who have the status of victims Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the minister of justice for failure to enforce the law by officials of the State Executive Department of the Pervomayan region of Kharkiv. Ms. Mashuri Valery to the Minister of Justice regarding the inactivity of the Dnipropetrov district administration of justice, the Basilk District Department of Justice of the Dnipropetrov region and their state executive services. Igor Nasalika to the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney-General on the illegal actions of officials forcing enforcement of the decisions of the State Executive Service of the Dnipropetrov region. Mr. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Head of the President's Secretariat on the decision of the Chutkov District Council of the Poltaw Region on the mistrust of the head of the regime in connection with the failure to implement the region's socio-economic and cultural development programme. Jury CARMAZINA to the Secretary of the RNBO, Prime Minister, Ministry of Health for the Prevention of the National Security of Ukraine in the Field of Health, the Improvement of the Fight against Tuberculosis, the Stopping of Foreign Organizations with Diplomatic Status in Ukraine’s Internal Health Policy. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the BSC on a fictitious enterprise by a private enterprise called Flamingo Trembled. Sergei GMIR to the Head of the Luhansk District State Administration on debt on payroll for employees of the “Privillity” sanatorium in the Lysicán region of Lugansk. Larissa LARISHANKO to the Head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports on the provision of inborn child care. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija Samoplavskih to the Head of the Open Shareholders Association “Kretelekom” for the implementation of the title list of capital construction in 2005 in the Valley branch for the telephone calls of the resident areas of the District of Brezniv. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Supreme Court’s Chief of Staff on the matter of a case concerning the permanent cessation of the authority of the Golitsky Rural Head of the Odessa region. Mikli KUKARCHUKA to the Head of the Supreme Court for delay in handling Mikli Podwisocki’s case. Leonida GRAČ to the Head of the holdmain Foundation for the establishment of corporate rights in the property of the Open Shareholder Society Photon, which belongs to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Head of the Vinnick district government regarding the gasification of the village of Mizjakowski Hootori of the Winnicki district. John DRACK to the Biloczerkian City Head for failure to execute a court decision on damages to a injured citizen. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the High Council of Justice for ignoring the judges of the Suvorov Regional Court of Herson’s Approval of the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of Ukraine in the case of a private entrepreneur named Sotnikova. Alexander MOROZA to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the allocation of land to the inhabitants of the village for gardening. LEFT GLUCHIVIH to the Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the restoration of the work of the utility “Milk Kitchen Factory”. Vladimir DEMOJINA and Yuri KARMAZIN to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Kiev City Head, the Head of the City Public Administration on the violation of the legislation by the Kiev Country Expertise of the rights and interests of the participants in the investment activity. Alexander STATE to the Head of the State Property Fund to provide information on the fulfilment of the terms of the contract for the sale of the Krivorizstal Metal Cell for the protection of the social rights and guarantees of the employees of the enterprise. Peter Diminsky to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence on the illegal actions of the judges of the Vasilkov District Court of Kiev. Yulia IOFFE to the Head of the Pension Fund’s Government for payment of monthly compensation for 2005 for the family’s accident at Chernobyl’s AES in connection with the loss of a breadwinner. ValeriaBorzovado Head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the critical sanitary condition of residential buildings in the city of Berezan, Kyiv district. TO THE Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration, Tamara is entitled to pay the employees of the rural councils of the Rachov region. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Deputy Attorney General, Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, on the facts of gross violations of legislation by officials of the Odessa Region State Tax Administration. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Minister of Justice on violations of current legislation by Waldiko. Refata Chubarov to the Attorney General on the verification of the circumstances of the involvement of the citizen of Petersen in criminal liability. Refata Chubarova to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on speeding up the proceedings by the Supreme Court of Ukraine on falsified criminal files that served as grounds for unjustifiably condemning a group of Ukrainian citizens from the Crimean Tatars. Mr. Wojša to the Head of the Court of Auditors on the legality of the use of the budget of the administration for the repair and maintenance of the roadways of the Winnick City Executive Committee. JOURIA SOLOMATANA to the Head of the Supreme Council to give the floor for the extraordinary address on June 23, 2005. We will consider this question yours. Dear National Deputies! This resulted in 105 parliamentary requests, according to factions: “Ukraine’s Regions” – 6, Ukrainian Communists – 30, “Our Ukraine” – 8, National Party – 7, BUT – 7, SPU-10, National Block – no, SDPU(o) – 21, UNP - 5, No, National Movement of Ukraine – 5, Reforms and Orders – 1, Postfraction – 4. Let us now move on to the performances of the national deputies. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction, please. Prepare Gregory Bondarenko instead of the cow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u2	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Mironenko. Respectable compatriots! It is not in the interests of the people of Ukraine that foreign policy creates many problems. The refusal of President Yushchenko and his Government to create a single economic space effectively deprives Ukraine of many advantages. This is also reflected in the concessional price of gas for Belarus, and the establishment of a high world price for gas for Ukraine, the so-called gas crisis, which will inevitably be followed by other crises, particularly those of ordinary citizens leading to huge economic problems, to the destruction of the economy. In view of this, the faction of the Company of Ukraine strongly requests that, with the support of other deputies, draft regulations Nos. 8432 and 8431 be put to the vote after consideration of the constitutional law. As President Yushchenko and the Government of Yehanurov negotiated on gas, we know. Negotiations on the establishment of Ukraine's Single Economic Area, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia are also being unsuccessful. The establishment of the EP requires the conclusion of 92 agreements in the form of four of our States. However, none of the 92 agreements have been concluded within a year and a half. Our rulers are just trying to get to the polls and then give up both the CIS and the EP. The aim of Decree 8432 is to accelerate the creation of a single economic space for the reconstruction and development of Ukraine's beneficial economic, trade, economic growth and people's standard of living. The establishment of the EP will also ensure the necessary free movement of our citizens across the border between brotherly States, the solution to the problems of employment and social protection of our citizens working in Russia and other Republics of the EP. The purpose of Decree No. 8431 is to give priority to inter-State agreements that relate to the position of Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia and third countries that lay the foundations for the creation of a single economic space. However, the current pro-American policies do not sign agreements in the form of four States defining the customs policy of third countries. Therefore, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and other deputies, members of several factions, insist on putting to the vote after the constitutional law draft regulations No. 8432, 8431, aimed at facilitating the creation of a single economic space for Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, for the benefit of the people of Ukraine, with a view to developing the economy and raising the standard of living of the population of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u3	Gregory Bondarenko is invited to attend. Prepare Solomon instead of Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u4	Gregory Bondarenko, Block Volodymyr Litvina. Dear colleagues, I want to draw your attention to what we've been doing and what we're doing, and, above all, what our APC isn't doing. I have only recently criticized the grain - buying mechanism from this rostrum. As you recall, a ton of A’s grains were bought for as much as 420 dollars and paid 289. In response, Minagropolitics prove that everything is done according to the rules, and not a word that the introduction of the state in the support of the grainmaker came to zero. I've criticized the government for using petrol biomixtures, but the first violin here belongs to the agrarian ministry. And not just because it has bioethanol in its sphere, the production of benzomixtures is guaranteed every year by at least a million tons of salt production, including non-conditional grains, molasses. And the management agri-behemoth is no goo-goo! Our agribusiness does one thing: it's making money for the APC with our help. At least a billion dollars a year were allocated from the Village’s State Budget. Where are the billions? Some kind of technique was bought for them? No, it's not. Did they build something? No, it's not. Go around all of Ukraine — not that the buildings, sorry, did not build a new bathroom. At least the budget that has been accepted provides for the peasants who have not previously settled. Where will they go? They say it's a grocery store. But let's see who this manufacturer is. One of my district's C.I.P.s was headed by a militia sergeant. He came with the money, collected the pies of the land, and began to dominate: he cut off the cattle, you see, and he decides only. [[I don't know where you got it.]] grow only wheat. To this incomplete bag and to the people he still publishes. And in parallel, it sells everything that can be sold. The courts seeking the truth of the village claim that action does not conflict with the law. There would be no such thing as an agrarian ministry. This structure should shape and carry out policies in the countryside. But in today’s way, it is incompetent. Politics is very different. is no different from Narcomism created by our famous countryman Kaganović and his fellow thinkers. Ukraine needs a completely new modern agrogovernment body that needs young people in it. Stop tossing the old staff log. Without experts with a new world view, we will not get anywhere. I wish Victor Andriyovich, our president, would have heard those words. Sadly, it is futile to expect that. Please watch my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u5	George Solomatin is invited to the presentation. Prepare Tkalenka instead of Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u6	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, on December 2nd of this year, I was informed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that on November 30, London, my meeting was held as the head of the Beresovski-Jushchenko Temporary Investigation Commission with the President of the Bereszowski Foundation for the Protection of Civil Liberties, during which copies of three bilateral agreements were received which reveal the mechanism for making money to Ukraine, shadow money, during the 2004 election campaign. This mechanism was exposed when Mr. Berezowski’s company, registered in Gibraltar, founded in Oregon by Mr. [[United States]] The subject of the agreement was consultation services on the development of the so - called investment strategy of a customer in Ukraine. The recipients of the funds were defined in the contract as follows: “Deutchebank Trust Company Americas” and the recipient bank, “Commerce Trust”, Riga, Latvia. The payer is an account of 10701, the “.limited” firm, that is, the firm that entered into a contract with Mr. Beresowski’s company, and that belongs to Mr. David Vajawich Zwani. Mr. Beresowski’s total claim increased from $21 million to $31 million. Dear colleagues, I asked the Attorney General's Office to initiate a criminal case immediately under article 94 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, a press release, and I demanded that “Dergecompensation” and the Ukrainian Security Service duly accompany such an investigation. And I got the answers, I got the answers, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I'm the plaintiff, so to speak. The answer of the Attorney General’s Office is: “A supplemental test conducted by the KOS KOS SB of Ukraine and the State Committee on Financial Monitoring of Ukraine. The involvement of specific Ukrainian business entities, or banking institutions, in receiving funds from abroad and further financing of the pre-election company has not been established. Well, I guess you could say "thank you" for the hard work of the structures. But I'm reporting that Mr. Berezowiski's client, the defendant, is a party to Mr. Zwania's lawsuit. Imagine that in January, or February, the English femida will pass its sentence and this judgment will state that the Ukrainian femida was unable to prove the obvious. So I warn our society and our politics, which face will appear in the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u7	Yes, Alexander Tkalenko is invited to the presentation. Prepare the Colonies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u8	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine Statement by the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. The Ukrainian People's Movement welcomes the Ukrainian Government's decision on the need to inventory and improve the efficiency of land and state property management used by the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. We are confident that these measures will have to be carried out transparently and under public control in the event of the actual absence of leases and other legal instruments. This work must also be done in a coordinated position and cooperation with the Russian side. However, the recent statements and actions of representatives of the Government of Russia testify to the so - called “Catholics. ” That they continue to be trapped in the trap of old-fashioned approaches in bilateral relationships created by the complex -- the only and the only and the only. To this day, these officials represent the presence of their powerful military group as a charitable act in relation to Ukraine. So during the days of the Russian Navy, Russia reported that all Ukrainian settlement sites based on the fleet would receive 235 million rubles from the Russian budget. It may well be that today’s visit to the Crimea by the deputy minister of foreign affairs of the Russian Federation, Gregory Karasin, is an accident. It envisions a series of meetings with known aggressive anti - Ukrainian organizations, most of which were marked by the active support of Viktor Yanukovic last year. The National Movement of Ukraine notes that the use of Russian energy officials as political weapons is also being fueled by the pro-Russian lobby, which has recently been active in the Ukrainian Parliament and has actually become a betrayal of national interests. We are confident that Ukrainian voters will come to the right conclusion about such a position of well - known political powers in future parliamentary elections. The People’s Movement of Ukraine is confident that the nature and scope of the problems associated with the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation makes it necessary for a coherent interaction between the executive and legislative branches of government. Government efforts must be accompanied by support from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at the same time be in the field of parliamentary control. We demand the leadership of the Supreme Council to immediately reintroduce to the agenda of today's session a draft decree establishing a Temporary Investigation Commission to study the status of implementation of the basic status and conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. The People’s Movement believes that the prospect of solving today’s conflicts around the problems of the Black Sea Fleet Radio Station today depends solely on the Russian side. Ukraine offers every opportunity to hold civilised negotiations. Otherwise, we will demand, we have every reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u9	The Colony gives Alexander Stoyan the right to speak. Prepare Anastasia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u10	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Party. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine is concerned about the situation that is taking place in the “Criverstal” as well as how the costs of its sale are being used. At the time, the faction of the Party of the Regions warned that if a factory was to be taken from its former owners, it would have to be returned to the state. Because the factory had made great profits to the state, it allowed people to work normally. The people were getting a decent salary, there was a great social sphere, but the new orange government destroyed everything that had been done by the government of Viktor Yanukovic, and decided to pay the bills by selling the budget to foreigners. And what do we have today? Here is only a proposal from the government on 15 December 2005 to increase spending on the money received from the “Croatstally” and for 2006 it is intended to cover the thresholds that will also be the catch of the “Croatsvali”. And let's ask, what would happen if there was not this "criminals"? What would they sell then? What will they sell in 2006? Again with the "Shitman" and the big static enterprises for foreigners? Dear people, where will the citizens of Ukraine who work go? They will become slaves. Now, let's see what's going on today, what's going on at the Bloodbath factory today? People just came up to me in the towers and said, "Workers strike because they don't pay their wages." People were good when a day - to - day wage was paid, a large salary was paid, a foreigner came in today and paid no wages. In doing so, he violates ILO Convention No.87 on the Priority of Paying Wages. Next, the social sphere is collapsing, so the faction of the Ukrainian Region supports the fair demands of workers of the ‘Cruvoristals’, requires the government, the Property Fund, and the President to intervene immediately. We turn to the government, stop selling strategic objects, stop at least by March 2006, when the new Supreme Council comes and throws you out as a power that is incapable of working. What's going on today, my dear friends? With gas troubles, prices are rising, large debt on wages is rising. Where are we going, where is our country going? We demand an immediate government here, we demand the President here immediately and let him know where this orange power leads the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u11	Anastasiav, the Communist faction. Prepare Dmitri Pavlička instead of Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u12	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, respected TV viewers! On 2 December this year, at a meeting of the Supreme Council, I, the National Deputy of Ukraine, announced a parliamentary request to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the rejection of the tendering committee of the Social Insurance Fund in open-ended tenders for the purchase of sanatorium services for 2006, a subsidiary of the Kyiv City and Ballenology Hospital of the Ukrainian trade unions. Yesterday, on 23 December, I received a reply under the signature of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Garjena Vasilievna, in which there was no answer to the questions raised, namely: an unjustified exclusion from the list of medical clinics with the reference that there were no bedrooms and facilities under the project and the status of the institution. The hospital is designed and prepared for treatment of residents of the city of Kiev, who live nearby, and there is no need for this bedroom. No response to the request: include a doctor on the list of tenders. The entire page presents the order of work of the tendering commission and concludes: “After the announcement of the results at the Tender Committee meeting, the winners of the tender will be determined. You will be informed of the decision taken.” That's the reaction to the MP's request. Yesterday, 23 December, in response to such actions by the tendering committee and the Social Insurance Fund, the Committee of the High Council for Pensioners, Veterans and Persons with Disabilities held a visiting meeting at the medical institution and consulted the material base and team of the institution. And he was pleasantly affected by the conditions of treatment, the wide range of treatments and their capacity. The Committee of the Supreme Council was surprised by the solicitation committee's efforts to deprive sick people of the city of such treatment. Moreover, I will say that the year ends, seven days remain, and the treatment of veterans and the population of Ukraine is virtually not yet resolved. Ivan Yakovlevich Sahan, please give me an answer to your first request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u13	Dmitry Vasilovich Pavličko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Prepare Alexiyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u14	Dmitry Pavličko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear MPs, dear fellow countrymen, note two trees in our hall: different colors, different ideological directions. This indicates that our Parliament is far from being reunited. But I have the courage to greet everyone, and those under the red tree, and those under the blue and yellow tree, all the Ukrainians with the New Year, with the Christmas Christ. Now let me read out a statement from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party and the People's Movement. On October 30th, the throne of Cyril-Methodium Temple at the Ostrov Academy of Patriarch Philaret was consecrated. The Ostroga Church parishioners expressed their desire to move to the Kyiv Patriarchate, instead of the priests of the Moscow Patriarchate, their mercenaries from the Korchinsky Brotherhood, and Vitrenko's supporters, imported from Odessa and Crimea, the war-torn anti-Ukrainian forces, made their attempt to provoke Ostroz. Speakers of this was the Party of Regions, personally Viktor Janukovic, who is trying to play a religious map in the election campaign in 2006. Yesterday, with the active support of the Head of the Supreme Council, the pro-Ukrainian anti-Ukrainian forces, the deputies who betrayed Yashchenka, a decree was passed that testifies to the anti-government position of a part of the Ukrainian Parliament. We national MPs, who have always stood in patriotic positions, are determined against the attempts of pro-Moscian politicians to fuel interfaith national hostility in order to satisfy their own ambitions before the parliamentary elections. They want to apply Russian laws in Ukraine that, apart from the so - called Canonical Church, do not recognize other churches. The Ukrainian language, the church, the nation, it doesn't exist for them and it never existed. On the basis of the foregoing, we appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the ruling of the so-called interim commission of inquiry, to stop attempts by the political forces directed at Moscow, to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u15	Since the Head of the Supreme Council was mentioned here, I have the right to a replica. First. The Supreme Council does not extend anything, but it makes a decision. We must, Your Honor, come to the Supreme Council, not to make statements, but to work on a permanent basis. That's the first one. The other one. With the same success, you can accuse me of stretching the budget and saving your government because we're not there. Your government is inconvenient! That's two. Third. I'd like to remind some people, if we have to, we can publicly remind them. When we talk about colors, how we used to divide Ukraine, singing one and now singing another. I think that some people need to sit down and keep quiet, not teach others and atone for their sins before Ukraine. Please, instead of Alexiyuk Joulinsky. Don't be a bad boy while it's quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u16	Mikola Joulinski, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Yesterday the Supreme Council passed a decree on the so - called report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of violations of the citizens’ right to freedom of conscience. Again and again, I think, in our hall, how we want to be both prosecutors and investigators, constantly accusing, everywhere, of teaching without getting to the point of the problem. Is it not obvious to us who and why the Interim Commission of Inquiry was created? It was designed to order certain political powers and the glory of God, I take it into my hands, was found by a man who decided with great worthiness and some laity to carry out what we did not have the right to conduct. Why? If this is a commission of inquiry into the violation of citizens’ rights to freedom of conscience, let us look at the whole of Ukraine. Why did everyone suddenly get so interested in this problem in the Plains region, with which I am of a kind and I know very well the situation in Ostrava, because it was a particularly provoked situation and then, as if to solve this situation, a temporary commission of inquiry is being created. Respectable national MPs, respected citizens, can't do that. We need to look at the whole scope of Ukraine and realize that the religious problems in Ukraine are extremely complex. They require a careful and delicate approach, and we need to see the full scope of Ukrainian religious problems. They are everywhere, but they are not, above all, to solve these problems on the basis of our adopted law with you should be judged. But we're trying to replace the courts and court decisions today to ignore and at the same time argue that it's our opinion that's the main one. I mean, by the way. There was a special opinion from a member of this committee, Michael Kosev. She was bugged. I'm asking, why hasn't the Interim Investigation Commission responded to it, the Supreme Council? And I would like to point out that the relevant decisions of the courts were. And these, first of all, we need to remember that it is the court that is the highest authority that makes decisions. And its decision must be the main and decisive one. So I still think that the Temporal Investigation Commission should not continue to operate. It will never solve all these problems, and we will constantly excite the atmosphere in society. So the day before Christmas, I'd like to call us more like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u17	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u18	Our dear Ukrainians, not in the ethnic sense! Allow me, in the background of this parliamentary political review, to turn my voice down to normal human intension and to say a few words to you at the end of this mad and beautiful, and sad 2005 from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I want to remind you how wonderfully on what amazingly high note this year started in 2005, which we met on the stage, on the orange stage, which was the level of euphoria, hopes and expectations that this year will eventually bring us Ukrainians a relief to our land. That we have long suffered human happiness in many previous generations. And today we have a full, full, full right. That really should be the case. Today, we have to make a determination that something completely different has happened. And when we put our hands on our hearts, we do not want to be wicked in front of you, dear Ukrainians, and big and small and grandparents and grandchildren and parents and children, we do not want to be wicked, and we want to, we understand very well how politics, which today’s great disappointment has besieged the Ukrainian nation. Because bandits do not sit in prisons, but tomorrow they will come and sit in the seats of many of those who sit here. Because business is not separate to this day, and business is in power today. We understand this and we do not get angry; we experience it as our own tragedy and tragedy of our people. That's why, in conclusion, I would say that. We're back in the race of time. We're entering 2006. Let us, our dear Ukrainians, both sad and merry, and disappointed, and those who have maintained faith, shower you on behalf of our block with New Year's and Christmas crops. And let this grain stick in every house of yours and bring you joy. And grant to God, that over your bright heads, and over our beautiful mother-Ukraine, be ever-blessing God's hand, and that in the next year you may not err, choosing power. Good and Happy in All Your Home! Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u19	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, final address, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u20	John Boki, the Socialist faction. In Ukraine’s history, there are many important events, and in Ukraine’s history both large and small cities played an important role. And one of these cities is the Oaks of Santa Claus. Well, the city is known not only for the "time" of the waiters, but still. The city is known as a large resort center, but today the Ochaks are experiencing especially difficult times. The Socialist faction was approached by members of the Ochakow City Council, and they beat at alarm. The city is dying, the city can disappear from the face of the earth. Today, there is no industrial enterprise in Oczekow. The city’s military forces have come out of it, and there is now a catastrophic situation because of the lack of tax revenue, there is, in fact, a very weak budget, and it does not meet half, even about a third, of the city’s development needs. There's this situation in the city that today 90 percent of the housing fund is flooded with sewage, I'm not talking about roofs, roofs destroyed, everything is flooded, the basics of the dwelling, the practically ruined sewerage, the water supply and the sewers are practically mixed, and you realize that it can come out. It's a wild situation, and actually it's out of control. An emergency committee of the district council announced the city in an emergency. But what is the point of what she announced? There's no cost. And the deputies of the Ochakow City Council are already asking for help in the Ukrainian government, because if this is going to last this winter and summer, then the cities, in fact, can be said, are not. There everything will come to nothing. People move, basically, nowhere. Although there are between 100,000 and 150,000 vacationers in Ochak, unfortunately, the city has very little of it, and it cannot save itself. That's why we, the Socialists, refer to Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov of Ukraine, and he has been addressed by the Ochakov City Council, and we call on the government to help the City of Ochak to save itself, and that means to save part of our country's history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! We still have a number of requests with the necessary documents for presentations in connection with the dissatisfaction of answers to parliamentary requests. Igor Šurma, please. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u22	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] As long as we have the President of Ukraine, the more I listen to what he has to say, the more I have to say that he is right. At first he said that the civil servant, that's the lacquer. Not long ago, he said that for everyone’s fool to be seen. So what I want to show you is what is Lakeside stupidity or stupid laity. I asked the question about the wage level of the Prime Minister. On the basis of what decision, closed, today's work path, including, let's say, the State Secretary's press secretary is $18,000. I received a reply from the Prime Minister of Ukraine: the size of the Prime Minister's salary is determined by the order of the President of Ukraine since January 8, 92, number 22. Dear Leonide Danilovich, I must say that these eagles who are sitting on the right side and shouting that the former regime is a bandit government, they have been deceiving because this Laca nonsense today has shown that they are using their wages today thanks to your decree. What's more, they're swearing at another document that's signed by you. Either they were deceiving, using people to talk about this regime yes, or they were the same bandits, or worse, because they tricked people on the Maidan of Independence. You could stop at that. But today they are definitely not allowed in Parliament to vote on the ruling of which the Social Democrat is the author of, to recommend that the Cabinet suspend the action of the Order on its high salaries, because today, Victor Andryovich, I now address the second President, to the doctor of the village for whom you are concerned, to pay 350 dollars, and your ministers have 20,000. Is that social justice? And this could be silenced if, for the money -- tens of thousands that the new authorities receive -- it was a new project of "oranges" that they planned to implement. No administrative pressure is generated today. In Colomia city authorities are under pressure, as they show from above. Whether I can understand it or not, I've been forbidden to hold a referendum. For the instructor of a higher education, do not give God, come, or hold a meeting of an initiating group, as was done to him in the old age of Cagebi, they made him a working day on Saturday. So I'm asking the MP again. What do you pay tens of thousands of dollars for, and on what determination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! Rudzkowski. You don't? The statement has been completed. I ask the Secretariat to prepare a commission on the proposals made by the national MPs to respond accordingly to the authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine is under review. Alexander Alexandrovich, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we've held a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and we've actually agreed on all the points of discussion. I would ask that Alexander Alexandrovich provide the relevant information, we have previously approved this document and sent it to the Constitutional Court. How long do you need, Alexander Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u24	Wait a minute, 10-12.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u25	Up to 10 minutes. Okay? Well, there are no warnings? And then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! First, I have a few words about the procedure for preparing this document. You know that you have created a temporary special commission that deals with a number of bills, including constitutional changes. We held several meetings on this particular matter concerning the draft Law 3207, which has such a registration number, and we agreed on the option that was considered yesterday by the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council. The Conciliation Council, taking into account some of the points of discussion, entrusted the working group, which I and the legal authorities were involved in, to work out this document in such a way as to remove all the contradictions that arise today and cause dissensions in one or another factions. And in my opinion, this morning again at the Conciliation Council, we agreed on the text that I would like to report to you. Given that this is a continuation of political reform, its development at the local level, and this is a matter of concern to many, especially the local authorities, I would like to put a little more emphasis on the features of this law, which provides for another constitutional order for local self-government and exercise of authority at the local level in general. We're talking about something special. In view of the fact that there have been no legal definition of administrative and territorial formation in Ukraine, the activity in the territory of which is being carried out in relation to a number of settlements that are integrated into these administrative and territorial units: whether it is in the cities, as it is in Yalta, Sevastopol, other cities; whether it is in many areas of rural councils, which combine several populated areas and so on; therefore, the category of “districts” as defined in paragraph 29 of the 85 articles on the powers of the Supreme Council; and in article 133, where there is a clear definition that “the surrounding area is based on the voluntary unification of residents of the administrative and territorial unit, which consists of several settlements”. It's a principle of money, but it's more about, let's say, legal categories than the organization of governance and the organization of self-government in places. A second feature that is most plausible is evidently that there is no mention in article 118 of the district government now. It is this article, so that “in the areas, cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, local government administrations are formed to carry out the powers within the limits and order established by law”. There are no such administrations in the area. And the accountability and control of the administration has changed. They are now accountable, under the control of the Cabinet of Ministers, although they are accountable to the President. Because on the basis of the President's functions, which were voted last December, the appointment of the heads of administration of the district is meant to be carried out by the President for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers. Article 119 defines the functions of local public administrations, many of which are not disclosed in the Constitution but are referred to in the Law. And these are the functions: local administrations monitor the enforcement of laws by local executive authorities, subordinated to central authorities, the interaction of local executives with local self-government authorities, and others defined by the Law of Power. Thus, 119 articles have become much shorter because they touch on the new functions of local administrations that are created at the district level. In article 133, I've already said that this is about defining the district and that's why the first part of the article, the system of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine consists of: the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts, the districts, the cities, the areas in the cities, the villages and villages, and the districts and the definition of the district that I have just read. In the third part of this article, we touch on a situation that was not previously regulated by the Constitution, not by the Laws. This is about defining the boundaries of the areas. Because the administrative-territorial division is clearly defined and no one is interested in the presence of those or other areas, but subject to objective circumstances, there may be a need, a change in boundaries. This concludes the third part: After listing the areas, the city of Kiev and Sevastopol, whose boundaries are defined by the Law. So that there is no interpretation in this regard so that there is no threat to either separatism or any volunteerism in carrying out such a function. Article 136 also sets out and corresponds to the changes to the Constitution, which was voted on December 8, last year, to elect local-level deputies in Crimea and at the local level, that is to say that the elections are held for a term of five years. And that also removes the contradiction that was before the last moment. In article 140 there is a definition of the local self-government itself, what it is. In fact, this repeats the valid norm of a valid Constitution, and the reference is made to strengthen the functions of executive bodies of representative structures, councils of the relevant level. So part four of this article says, it sounds like this now. Local self - government is carried out by residents of the populace, by an order established by law, both directly and through local authorities, village councils, and their executive bodies. In fact, this is another highlight of what we had in today's Constitution with little editorial details that essentially don't change. Article 141 in the second part will now sound like this. Territorial communities are chosen by secret ballot for a term of five years on the basis of a total equal, direct right to vote. Again, this rule is determined here by the rural, rural, urban head, who heads the executive body of the council and presides over its meetings. Actually, there's no need to explain any more. Article 142 clearly defines one function and the basis for self - government regarding the use, formation, and use of budgets. Here is the insert in part three of article 142. The law defines the minimum share of taxes and congregations that target the income formation of local budgets. I realize that this should be clearly reflected in both the Code of Budgets and other tax laws, but it is essential that local self-government have a financial basis for exercising its powers. In part, and in article 143, reference is also made to the fact that the territorial communities of villages, villages, their bodies continue to approve the respective local budgets, because they had previously performed this function, they approved it, but control over the formation and implementation of the budgets carried out administrations. In this same article 143 in yours, in the materials that are handed out to you, about this, this article is written in the left column of the current Constitution. I'd like you to look at one detail, and we're changing the first and second parts of the editorial that you have, where there's a reference to local budgets and questions about the authority of district and district councils to decide within the limits defined by the law on the administrative and territorial system, and I'd like that not to bother many, because there are problems that arise between villages or other problems, or at the district level between areas, and so that this doesn't go to the Supreme Council, this is done by the local representative body, but on the basis of the law. And in, the right column should be transferred to the last part of this article, where instead of “local self-government authorities may be given separate powers by law of executive authorities”, it should be written “in the order established by law”. In the order established by law, certain delegated functions are given. That's the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u27	Microphone, please, why did you turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u28	I'll finish, I've got 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u29	Please. As long as it takes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u30	So I would like to ask for one clarification, another rule will be transferred to the right column, in which instead of the word “law” the insert “in the order established by law” will be inserted. Finally, the “Transitional Positions ” take these features into account. I stress only one nuance that, in view of the specific status of the city of Sevastopol and the need for administration there, the remaining standard of the current Constitution, the fifth paragraph of the “Transitional Regulations” on this shows that for the period of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation regarding the functioning of the territory of the Black Sea fleet there the powers are exercised on the basis of the Law on Local Government Administrations in its current form. So, this document, I stress again, has already received a remark from the Constitutional Court, but given that we bring it into such a harmonious dependence on the document that has changed the Constitution in the winter of last year, there is a need today for a simple vote in favour of this document, to send it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for conclusion. This is all about the content of this document. I would ask him to support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u31	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues! We discussed it many times on the Conciliation Council, practically reconciled all positions, found compromises to make a decision. So let's just take it right now and get it approved and sent to. What? Please, let us briefly discuss, if they insist, honourable colleagues. Let us follow these rules. One minute, let's talk for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues! Let's not make any accusations, let's talk for 15 minutes, please. Please sign up for the performance. On the board, please show me. They signed up for the show. Right, I'm looking at the board. Yuri Solomatin, will he be speaking? None. Oleg Belarus, will you be performing? Allegedly, Oleg Belarus will be performing. Get ready. Get ready right away. 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u32	Do I have 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u33	If you'll take all of them, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine! Today is a special day of Ukrainian citizenship. Ukraine is rising to a new stage, a new level of democratization of society, the state and the system of power. If the will of the people is realized today in our successful vote, we will take a new step in the implementation of political reform, in the integration of all levels of all branches of power into Ukraine's single national authority, and this will give impetus to the improvement of the efficiency of the people. Our faction has been very careful, without haste, studying these bills, working on commissions, a conciliatory council, and today we can fully argue that the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will support this bill, which relates to constitutional changes in the local self-government system. Because we are confident that this will enable us to increase the efficiency of the basic level of government, the level of rural, rural, district councils. At the same time, it will preserve government control over socio-economic development in Ukraine. Much attention was given to the interaction and interaction of local authorities, executive committees, district councils, city councils with the public administration system. It seems that in the drafting of the bill, its developers were able to find a solution that is balanced and that does not call into question the role, functions, and influence of local authorities. This is a famous event, and we urge all the national MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u35	Basil Nadrag. None. Eugene Gorenik, your right to speak, please. Prepare Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u36	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. Of course, the role of local self - government in the current system of Ukrainian authority is debased and certainly requires its definition and status. But first of all, this status is determined by the availability of finance. We see how difficult it was to adopt the budget in 2006, when it was kind of about the government's government-owned factions that did not actually support the government and almost led to a government crisis. This is a model that Ukraine can expect next year with the introduction of constitutional reform. We see how the MPs can act. Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz gave some arguments regarding the extension of constitutional reform to local self - government. But it does not remove the dualism of power. In particular, public administrations have a double subordination of both government and the President, and thus, at all levels as a result of the introduction of constitutional reform into action, this conflict can only be strengthened. We know how constitutional reform has been voted on and how it should be treated. Our cadence is coming to an end. Obviously, it would be more logical to allow the next Parliament to identify the problems of local self-government and, above all, its financial security and then approach it with other powers. Otherwise, we'll put the cart in front of the horse again. So in principle, today, I think the adoption of this bill is premature and I propose that it be moved to the next chamber of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u37	Valerius Assadchev, prepare Vitalia Šibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u38	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party First, the Ukrainian People's Party welcomes all our citizens with the coming New Year and Christmas Christ. Now for the bill. First of all, procedure. Today it's just been baked somewhere, and they're already voting for it. This is the attitude towards the Constitution and such respect for the Constitution. The deformors of the Ukrainian Constitution had little to do with their rebirth of the Stalin-Berijian Public Prosecutor's Office by the Constitution. Not enough for them to fortify the MP through an imperative mandate, and they lacked the fact that they actually destroyed the right of opposition. They have now decided to destroy Ukraine’s territorial base and local self - government. So I want to tell the deformors what happens to local self-government after you write down the budget. It's about the state taking part, and it's defining the minimum parts. And what law will it determine the minimum parts? So I'll tell you, by the Budget Act, every year, there's going to be a minimum share of local self-government. What will be the development of self - government in your minimal parts? I'm sorry. Today, at least we want to, the Ukrainian People's Party wants to develop self-government, give them extra income. In addition to taxes on the income of natural persons, taxes on real estate should be given to them, a financial base, and you want to put them on minimum parts. In addition, the destruction of the territorial system is now provided for by law. Well, thank God! Yesterday you still wanted to do it by decree. Today, however, changes to the Constitution are needed to destroy the territory of Ukraine. It's not that simple. And then you're going to press 226 votes and there's no territory in Ukraine. And they will come, forgive me, the left ones will destroy the West, they will come right, they will destroy the East. What are you leading, respectable deformors? Think about it. Such things need to be put into serious discussion, discussed by all society, not roasted, thrown into the hall at the last minute, and tried to destroy the remnants of the Ukrainian Constitution. I'm asking you to look at what's written here. This can never be accepted. We'll have no self-government, no territorial structure, no county. What districts? You'll have to build the county roads first before the districts do. And not only do we have no circuits, we don't even have radials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u39	Vitaly Shibko, turn on the microphone, please. Prepare Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. I would like us to discuss this issue calmly and not to blame each other, because the accusations that apply to this particular bill today could be made in many different ways. And the way we're looking at drafts, and I'm in advance of them coming into the hall, and so on. That's the first one. That's why there's nothing else here but clinging to some secondary stuff that's not important today. As a faction, we discussed all these issues very carefully. And there's no news for us what's now written. Because you understand well that everyone knew what it was about. It was just some of the individual things that were agreed upon at the Conciliation Council today. And we can see how they are written according to the harmony that has been achieved today. I think we should vote today. This is because constitutional reform is logically to be completed. If anyone has hope today, the certainty that it will not pass, I mean first, they are wrong. They're wrong that even a referendum won't do anything about it. First. The role of the referendum is questionable, in general, if that's what this is about. And secondly, the political agenda today shows that the majority of the population supports all this reform and there will be no warnings. Hence, those who are initiating this reform today are once again reminded of the need for such an exercise. And then we have to see logically that if there is a reform of the higher echelons of power today, we need to get to the point where we're at the core of local self-government. And if today is blamed and said to be the county, it exists. If there is a rural council today that unites several villages, it is actually there. Today, there's only one problem, how it's going to bring down de jure. And it's this bill that he's looking at, and he's, I think he's giving a reasonable opportunity, and he's handling this district, and we have to accept it, too. We're going to do what today is going to be a two-powered force. After all, it clearly states that there is something in government administrations today. If the government had previously ruled and it was doing so from above, and there was no local self-government in fact, and in doing so the democratic rights of local communities have been violated, it is clearly written here today that it is only control over the detention of laws and so forth. And it is now in force, and the local authorities at the level of local self-government will perform all the functions provided for in the Constitution. So I invite everyone to vote in favour of this bill in order to avoid the contradictions that today are in our own legislation and the Constitution in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u41	Yes, Re fact Chubarov. Microphone, please turn it on. Igor Šurma will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u42	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. While noting the great amount of work carried out by members of the Temporary Special Commission, I cannot agree that, while seeking to harmonize the powers of local public administrations in the respective territory, the Temporary Special Commission also proposes to make decisions on such a sensitive sphere as ethnic. Thus, part three of article 119 of the current Constitution of Ukraine states that local government administrations do not provide for the implementation of national and regional socio-economic and cultural development programmes, environmental protection programmes in places where indigenous peoples and national minorities live compactly, as well as programmes for their national and cultural development. I just want to point out that it is this norm that, given its worthy implementation, should form the basis for interethnic harmony in the state. We've only just started to rely on this standard in the regions, we've started to build work, and in the proposals of the Special Temporary Commission, we're proposing that we all agree on the authority of the local public administrations, that they're practically not going to be responsible for the feeling, for the state of the national minorities, the indigenous peoples, for solving the problems that are relevant to them. It's all going to be translated into the center. And there will be no time, no desire, no political will at the center. I could speak on other articles, but I join my colleague Valérie Assadchev’s words. I think we should thank the Temporary Special Commission for the job. We need to discuss these changes as we discussed previous changes not only here in the Supreme Council but in society, with experts, with civil society associations, and leave decisions to be made for the new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will soon be elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u43	Igor Šurma, please. And then I'm going to ask Alexander Alexandrovich with a closing statement. Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u44	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I want to turn to you, knowing I have the right to take the line from Alexander Alexander Moroz. Alexandre Alexandrovich, you are or are not the most experienced politician in that country. Today, you are presented with a vivid example of what an arrangement of oranges is. What they wanted to use you on the Mayday of Independence, they did. At first they spoke of political, responsible authority. The author, by the way, is a representative of the President of Ukraine in Parliament. Raise the vote, he didn't even vote for it. They abandoned you for the first time. This is principle number one of the "oranges" team. They promised to make changes and additions to the Constitution. The Honourable Head of the People’s Union throughout the year, what does he say? We'll eat -- we'll see, reform is needed, but they've been twisting their hands with all kinds of technology lately so as not to introduce this constitutional reform. I'm sorry, gentlemen, you're probably not going to be in charge anymore, but you're going to have representative functions. This was demonstrated by the Deputy Prime Minister of European Integration. Driving around Europe, driving, saying that they would build a democratic state, and to this day doing everything to ensure that the end result of this political reform was not realized. You're talking about what we need to talk about in society. I am also in favour of talking about political reform in society. But we don't have time for the President. If he's not going to Europe to campaign for Ukraine, he's meeting with the director of the CIA in secret meetings that no one can know what they're talking about -- is that national security, or is that a threat? No one knows. Alexandre Alexandrovich, you will see a paradoxical case today, but it is very natural: today the changes to the Constitution will be voted by those who have been told by the "oranges" that we are your political opponents. Today we will support what you have done, because the idea of political reform has always been the foundation of united Social Democrats. Since 2000, we have written in our programming principles that we should move on to parliamentary-presidential form. It was because of this polytreform that we suffered the most, since President Medvedchuk’s headship was doing everything to make it a reality. Today, the political power of SDPU(o), which is most probably demonized in society, is likely to be the least profitable in this case. We are for Ukraine to develop as a civilized state. And today, everyone is obliged to vote for it. But he who does not vote dreams not to rule the state, but to rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u45	Yes, Alexander Alexander! Just a minute. Alexander Aleksandrovich, let's go with Yuri Bogdanovich. His last name was. Just a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear national deputies, the name of Klukkowski, has been named. Klukkowski's last name was named! Please, the microphone. The words “representative of the President” were said. We have one representative of the President. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u46	Yuri Klukkowski, representative of the President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenka in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, faction of Viktor Yushchenka's Block “Our Ukraine”. I want to say that we are all watching calmly enough as the gallant representatives of the “political bankruptcys” are splashing their cheeks from the Supreme Council’s rosary, who are still trying to raise political capital today, ploughing everyone around. But there is not enough time left for them. So I urge our voters to take this calmly and show them their place in the history trash.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u47	Please, Alexander Alexandrovich. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u48	Dear friends, I think the discussion of this project once again has shown how important and necessary it is. But here were some arguments, I am obliged as a representative of the Temporary Special Commission to make a statement about them. First, relative to the dualism of power that the first speaker spoke of, one of the speakers. But there is no dualism of power, it is today a dualism of power that needs to be avoided. And if we are in the upper echelon of power with the changes voted on December 8, last year, it is certainly necessary to do so at the local level. That is why these standards of the Constitution are the answer to this question. And the political conclusion is that power will belong to those in places where people trust, not as it has recently been, or in many places today, when political power has no support, but it exercises power. As one of the speakers rightly said, he rules in place. That's not supposed to happen. As a matter of fact, it's today we've made a document. People are good. Your initiative was to launch a project. A year's work on it. Documents were considered everywhere in factions. It's not my fault that one of the factions didn't go to a temporary special commission. But their leaders, such as Yuri Bogdanovich, worked very actively on the document, and virtually all its proposals are included in the document. It's about an imperative mandate. Well, you don't have to fool people. There is no Constitution and the changes voted last year do not have an imperative mandate. Because the exit of an MP from the faction is the only circumstance that deprives him of his status as a deputy. But the imperative is forcing him to do so. And if he does not leave the faction, he remains, even voting against the will of the faction. Thus, there is no imperative mandate; it is the invention of those who want the Constitution not to work. Next. We're talking about in the document, it wasn't previously stated in the Constitution that the law defines part of the financing or the creation of the local budget. I beg you, let me finish my opinion. So this is the part below which you can't go down, not the part that is defined at all. Today, however, everyone is well aware that local accounting standards have to be written down to ensure that self - government has a financial basis. And we're told: “No, you don’t have to write this down, because it’s going to be a constraint.” On the contrary, this must be done so that it is not possible to go below that level so that the local councils can finally receive funding to carry out their functions. If society changes the Constitution, the content of it, if you'll excuse me, it's a nonsense that we've long since given up. And no state, it can only put the general text of the Constitution to a discussion to vote or not to vote. And the articles are separate in a referendum, well, it's just to accept what's convenient to the executive power, which is what.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u49	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u50	I'm done. As a matter of fact, let's say "district" and "district road," well, that's certainly a great creativity for the man who said that. It is, as we say in the village, “The next mare’s tail.” I just don't want to comment on it. The county is what it is today, it has no legal definition. For what it's intended for, it's formulated: to make the boundaries of the jurisdiction of each administrative and territorial unit, because that's what the village, the village, in the section of the territorial system of Ukraine defines it. But to what local self - government, as an authority of local authority, is jurisdiction extended, to what territory? In the area of a few villages, or a city and a village, this is today in many places, not even discussed, because this is the problem that has existed for many, many years. And finally, once again, what's going on in the 119th article is the mandate for national minorities in the development of territories, ecology and so on. This is exactly the function of the authority that will be in the territory, there is no state administration now, but in the Law on State Administration, where the third part of this Law is foreseen in 119, let us write this down as a separate function of the local administrations of the district level, which should control the fulfilment of the needs of national minorities. I think that this legally regulated issue will be determined. And finally, you're offered a European model of local self-government. And if anyone doesn't want to vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u51	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u52	let him not talk about his European choice. Because it is only a desire to block political reform. I insist on voting on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u53	Yes, distinguished national MPs, please prepare for the vote. A motion is made to the Commission for prior approval and referral to the Constitutional Court of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Registration number 3207-1. Please vote. [[11:52:27]] For 328 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 57, Communist - 54, "Our Ukraine" - 25, National Party - 41, Block Timoshenko - 37, SPU - 26, National Block - 21, SDPU (o) - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, "Rebirth" - 7, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, "Reforms and Order" - 1, "Only Ukraine" - 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 9, non-fractional - 18. Decision taken. Have a seat, please. We have here a number of factions calling for a break. Two factions – BUT and “One Ukraine” – and the factions of SDPU(o) and “Regions of Ukraine”. I understand what you want to do, right? Oleg Belarus, then who. Nestor Ivanovich, will you? Nestor Ivanovich. And two more factions are also there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished deputies and citizens of Ukraine. Now there's been a great democracy. And on this wave of enthusiasm, consensus, I want to make a statement. On behalf of Julia Timoshenko and the “One Ukraine” faction. Today, more than ever, for Ukraine, for our society, the consolidation of all healthy political forces is important. Consolidation around the highest value of our nation, which has been successfully developed, despite all contradictions, difficulties, and problems. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc in the last period of our cadence has raised a number of initiatives to strengthen consolidation processes to implement the principles of Ukrainian popular solidarity. Nevertheless, it has to be noted that a number of issues remain unresolved. A clear example of obstruction in the Ukrainian Parliament on such humanitarian issues. There is a vote on the draft Act amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[on the right of religious organizations to long-term rent and permanent land use]] This is Law 8409, the author is the national deputy of Belarus. Churches of the leading religions, the Moscow Patriarchate, to which I belong, the Kyiv Patriarchate, all the churches have addressed the Supreme Council and we have not been able to re-vote a decision that would please millions and millions of believers. I think we're gonna have to go back to that law. This is also true of the law of inviolability, the removal of the inviolability of members of local councils. The Ukrainian Parliament must make a decision in accordance with the expressed will of the people. I once again call on my fellow MPs to sign under the invitation of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, which collects signatures on the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u55	Thank you, thank you. Yes, from two factions, SDPU(O) and “Ukraine regions”, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable colleagues, respected compatriots. Interesting things we keep watching. The plenary week is ending, the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote in favour of Bill 8334 and to send the remainder of some 17.5 billion bracelets to pay off the contributions to Sberbank is not being considered and should be said frankly, is being sabotaged by the Committee on Budgets. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I think that everything in this room is political colour and fairy tales and fairy tales or at least fairy tales. Let us not be like the ostrich who drilled his head in the asphalt and hid, hoping that all those who fled by the side would pass. We are responsible for this bill and for this money. Today, power has already been recognized in its financial bankruptcy, and they are channelling this money to pay off their debts in 2005 and to the pre-planned debts in 2006. I ask that this bill be put in general as a money-based law from the privatization of Criostali under Laws 8156, according to Bills 8334-5, is one per cent for the Horn of Curve, and 85-89 for the hole in the Pension Fund, which was once again made by these Top Orange Rulers. Today we have no right to go to New Year's without defining the fate of this bill. I'm asking everyone today to pass this law. And the group of authors today is open to all members of the people who consider it possible to co-sponsor this law in order for the bill to be one of the entire Supreme Council. I'm sure that our discussions about our return of contributions to Sberbank today can become a reality, at least for us with you, at least for this room. We take into account all the suggestions made by our colleagues who have passed similar laws, are willing to unite them and consider them to be co-sponsors. I ask for a bill and a bill to be voted on. In addition, yesterday we received a very dangerous new message. We seem to have a gas problem not only with Russia but also with Turkmenistan. Today, I want us to vote and invite the Prime Minister, Minister of Energy and Head of NAC Naftegaza to the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u57	Two more factions demanded: People's Party, People's Block. Who will act? Kalinczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u58	I'm stopping everything, you know what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u59	Please, it's coming out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u60	Thank you. Calinchuk, Clothing. Faction of the People's Party "The People's Block of Lithuania". Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, in this room we have taken with you normative acts aimed at building a road that was then called the Kiev-Odes motor pool. Justly believing that this is a public matter and that the implementation of this will benefit our country and our citizens. Regrettably, the construction of this facility, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and its subordinate structures ignored the needs of local communities, failed to take into account or take into account the interests of the local people. In particular, in the Lumoshov region, Odessa, only 160 acres [160 ha] of land was removed from the construction site, which includes members of agricultural formations, the ransom or compensation to the owners of the rations for these lands, to a full extent. In the process of building the highway, 115 km of roads of local importance have been damaged and destroyed. In violation of land law, ten careers have been opened, and more than 4 million have been exported. cubic meters of soil, destroyed by some 6,000. tree. In general, during the period of reconstruction of the highway, the area was damaged by about 26,000 dollars — damaged crumbs. The same is true of other areas. I'll read my address from the Shirayev District Council. “The National Deputy of Ukraine Kalinchuku W.A. The district council has received numerous complaints and parliamentary requests from residents of the population of Odessa Kyiv’s autobahn about the failure of the authorities to compensate for the damage caused by the construction of the van. The intensive work of construction technology has led to the complete destruction of the local roads. Local budgets did not receive a penny for the development and use of careers. All of this results in fair indignation in the population and in the district’s constituency, which, in turn, leads to rallying passions and unhealthy sentiments on the electoral campaign’s electoral day. The MPs insist on repairing the Mikolayevka-Victorovka road and building an exit from the van in the village of Viktorovka according to the project. Renovation roads in the village of the town of Shirajjevo and the road of Shirajjevo-Zhošice. Renovation of roads in other villages.” Dear friends, on behalf of the faction of the People’s Party of the Lithuanian People’s bloc, I have repeatedly addressed the Cabinet, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and other government authorities. But as you can see, the result is nothing. So the faction of the People's Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania strongly needs the Cabinet of Ministers to answer these questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u61	Dear colleagues have made further statements, even though Friday is a day of thorough application. We do not advertise according to the break tradition, because at the beginning of the session we took more time than we should. There were suggestions, now we're going to settle them by voting and move on. I will be, summarizing what the statements were about and so on, we will put those proposals and put them to a vote. There was a proposal by Nestor Schufferch to consider in a second reading today without a decision by the Committee to Change the Public Budget Act. I ask you to determine who is in favour of considering this law in the second reading, please vote. [[12:05:46]] For-198 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 46, Communists – 40, “Our Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 21, Block Timoshenko – 28, Socialists – 15, People's Block Lithuania – 20, Social Democrats – 19, People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 2, People's Movement – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 0, “One Ukraine” – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 0, non-fractional – 7. Who's to come back? I'd like to make a statement. [[12:06:39]] For 219 We didn't make a decision. All of it. The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 48, Communists - 43, "Our Ukraine" - 0, People's Party - 29, Block of Timoshenko - 31, Socialists - 17, National Block - 21, Social Democrats - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, "Rebirth" - 1, National Movement - 0, "Reforms and Order" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 3, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 1, non-fractional - 6. Not supported. There were proposals to include in the agenda and to consider a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to expedite the conclusion of agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan pursuant to the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space. Registration number 8432. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:07:57]] For-179 Not accepted. Factions: “Ukraine’s Regions” – 44, Communists – 48, “Ukraine” – 0, People’s Party – 21, Block Timoshenko – 0, Socialist – 15, National Block Lithuania – 20, Social Democrat – 18, Ukrainian People’s Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 5, National Movement – 0, “Reforms and Order”, “Only Ukraine”, Industrial Party – zero, non-fractional – 8. [[United]] I am referring to the inclusion in the agenda of today's draft resolution on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the need for the prioritization of interstate agreements that have a bearing on the position of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan in relation to the third countries for the creation of a single economic space. Registration number 8431. Please vote. [[12:09:14]] For 175 The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 35, Communists – 46, “Our Ukraine” – 0, People's Party – 25, Block of Timoshenko – 0, Socialists – 20, National Block – 21, Social Democrats – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Rebirth” – 1, National Movement, “Reforms and Order”, “One Ukraine” – zero, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 1, non-fractional – 7. So, dear fellows, we were determined by the voting method with the proposals that we were making. The only thing I want to say is that, of course, what has something to do with the formation of a single economic space and so on, we will return to it in January when the situation is more favourable. Because everyone understands that these agreements need to be made if we want to even winter. Yes, we will continue our consideration. Report of the Interim Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u62	For reasons of what?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u63	For reasons of vote. That's what we've already voted on. Sign up. Write down from the motives of everything that was voted on. Yes, please, five minutes. A mosquito.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u64	Please, dobkin's word microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. Based on the latest ballots, whether because of the pre-eminent mood, whether or not there are any other reasons, there is a feeling that none of the issues on the agenda today will be voted on. That's why I have this proposal. Maybe we'll step away from the rules a little while ago and start a discussion in the “Variable”. Just so we don't ruin the bills that are on today's agenda. They might have been adopted, but because of the absence of members of the people in the Hall, unfortunately, they could be sent and lost again. And here are a number of important bills that our society needs. That's why I have this proposal. Let us vote or take a consolidated decision to proceed immediately to the agenda for the “Variable”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u66	The offer buys off its originality and appeal. I'll see you now. Loboda Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u67	I'd like to give the word to Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u68	Victor Mironenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u69	Mironenko, the Communist faction. Respectable compatriots, distinguished members of the people. No vote has now been taken on the agenda of a decree of extreme importance to the people of Ukraine concerning the establishment of a single economic space. When Belarus receives a concessional price of less than $70, and we are already offered more than $160, some pro-Americans are surprised and demand a concessional price. But Belarus is integrated into European economic space, and our rulers, including the currently screaming MP serving the Americans, are refusing to create a single economic space. And it's like that. Why Russia should grant the same benefits as Belarus, Ukraine, which is simply a NATO front at the request of all the same MPs who receive dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u70	Lilia Grigorovich. Bandur Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u71	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Judging from the situation that is now taking place in the hall, you can really explain everything either in a pre - festive mood, or perhaps by the unconfiguration of MPs for a more subjective declaration from factions or from yourself. I see that the order of the day in the gas today is very little like that. that we have been given, and it will obviously be best to give the people's deputies what they want to say and move on to “different”. At the same time, I think it needs to be done immediately, because, judging from the latest speeches that have been made, our voters may have the impression that there are MPs from the Russian Duma sitting here, but not from the Ukrainian Supreme Council. That is why I would like to move on to the “Variance”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u72	Alexander Bandurka. Vitaly Corge next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u73	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania Dear colleagues! We've just been given help on the results of the draft regulations and bills for 2005. We're actually having our last meeting this year. And we were offered, and we got 1,290 documents, 630 of them accepted, or half of them. That is, how much time we are wasting on both discussion and contention, conflict resolution, or re-voting where there is no law or decision to consider in proper quality. We have three months to work together. Then someone will stay, new colleagues will come. Let's just say for the time that we have, let's stop our work so that it's more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u74	Vitaly Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u75	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u76	Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u77	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Ukrainian citizens, you can hear how, unfortunately, the Ukrainian Parliament is protecting not the government's efforts, protecting not the President's efforts to defend Ukraine's interests, but practically the fifth column in the gas conflict. And putting Belarus as an example, it means being, selling freedom, selling independence for gas, that's what it is. Politics. It's the sales of a certain political force, which you can understand for whatever it is, either dollars or gas or rubles and so on. Freedom is a category that is not sold for anything - for gas or for anything else. And that's why we have to, I repeat, back up these forces in the government, support these efforts of the President that advocate our independence. But Russia can also present accounts for unpaid debts to investors when all of this is stuck in Moscow and so forth. But I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, have you exchanged? The only thing I'd like to say is, let's not be so quick to accuse someone of trading freedom. No one trades it. And as for the only economic space, please read the President's statement, his statements, which say that we need to form a single economic space, based on our legislation and the Constitution. And so we passed this law with you, according to the Constitution, without, as it were, the rights that the Constitution does not allow. So let's calm down to that, because, you see, winter starts to take some rights so we don't have to talk. Yes, there were suggestions for us to move immediately to the “Various”. I'll put it to the vote. Who is in favour of moving to the “Variance” section now, please vote. [[12:17:32]] For 209 We didn't make it. Yes, mobilize. Mobilize, please. Yes, shall we vote again? Who would like to go to the “Variance” section now, please vote. [[12:18:03]] For 258. The will of the Supreme Council is inviolable and has a degree of law, so please sign up for the “Variance”. There's a recording on "Rizzne". Yes, please show me on the monitors. We have one year on "Rose" in our house. Please, Stepan Cloud. Prepare Korsak's Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Last time around Ukraine there are really geopolitical attempts to attack its sovereignty. I mean, first of all, the politics of our big neighbor, the Russian Federation. Actually, more specifically, her leadership. The attempt of so-called energy or gas blackmail is solely an attempt by the Kremlin's politics to restore the Russian Empire by economic means. That's not gonna work. But what is surprising is the position of many national MPs, who act as a “fifth column” -- in fact, they have taken the position of betraying national interests rather than unanimously defending the interests of this state in which they live, which feeds them, as harmful parasites. Let us not be intimidated, for Ukraine has no less to respond properly to any attacks and blackmails. But Russia needs to be reminded that it signed under the 1994 Budapest Declaration on Security Guarantees for Ukraine, when Ukraine was handing over nuclear weapons, which clearly stated that no economic pressure or economic blackmail could be allowed. This is the first time. Secondly, I would like to remind you that if Russia wants to blind its strategic missiles, it is likely that Ukraine will have to eliminate radio-location tracking systems that serve Russia's military capabilities. Russia will have to pay the right price for the base of the Black Sea fleet, which at least has to be at least three billion dollars, because the Americans on base. The Philippines is paid two and a half billion, although it is much smaller. We will remind Russia that it has seized all the foreign property of the Soviet Union, where 37, 37 percent should belong to Ukraine. We'll remember a lot more. But we wouldn't want to do that. We want our policy to be built on the principles of equality and mutual benefit. And I think Russia will also have a sobering force that will try to build a relationship with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u80	Alexy Korsakov, I can't see. Vitaly Shibko, please. From where? Microphone, please, Shibka. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u81	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. I want to draw the attention of colleagues present here in this room, and our society to some of the statements that today exist in the media. For example, a statement begins that has its address to the President of Ukraine Yushchenko, Prime Minister Yehanurov and the head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, as well as a copy sent to the Ministry of Education of Ukraine, a group of Jewish deputies of the Supreme Council, which has long been referred to by the people as the Supreme Betrayal, known for their Ukrainian gluttony, have made a new provocative statement – a call to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine with slanderous accusations to the address of the largest and most numerous estimates of Ukraine's best education facility, the International Academy of Personnel Management. Or another saying that follows: “Stop the world Zion’s attack on freedom of speech and.” This is once again a statement by the Presidium of the Intergovernmental Personnel Academy, referring to the IAP. Or a statement by the Bureau of the International Academy of Staff Management saying: “In recent days, there has been an increase in the activities of international Zionist and, unfortunately, some Ukrainian authorities” and so on. So we are today, if we are reading these statements, we can think that we are not in modern Ukraine, where the Constitution and the Laws are in force, but we are in some other century, maybe in times like the Russian Empire, where maybe the Jewish communities were being persecuted, because that was what was happening at the time in Russia. What does that mean? When the Ministry of Education is now taking steps to bring about the order of many nongovernmental scientific institutions and educational institutions that have taken place throughout Ukraine for 14 years, when there are no statutes when there are titles, medals, orders when diplomas are bought and so on. All of this causes, of course, such a wave of mistrust. And this dissatisfaction pours out e that comes out of the street students, I mean the MAUP, and they demand the release of Nikolaynka, they demand, as if, order and so on. Yes, for today, the time has really come for order. And we think I'm saying this on behalf of the Socialist faction. That what is being done today by the Ministry of Education is not just about today, but about all the other institutions that have arisen and that are simply selling their diplomas and not giving any professional education. And we're here today supporting our ministry for this, and this is primarily about other institutions, as well as this Academy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u82	Chubarov, please, microphone out of place. A woman to prepare. Chubarov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. On two points, I would like to speak now in a “different” way. The first question is the address to Prime Minister Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich of Ukraine. The financial year is coming to an end. By working together, many governments have been able to do so, especially in matters that are of vital importance to thousands of Crimean Tatars who have returned from their places of exile and have settled on their historic Fatherland. For many reasons, however, both objective and subjective have resulted in a tense situation at the end of the year with the development of some of the allocated funds. The Ukrainian State Committee on Nationalities and Migration is the main cost manager, asked the Ministry of Finance during November to make urgent changes to the 2005 annual budget allocations of the State budget in part of the financing of capital investments. Despite the positive oral arrangements with the Ministry of Finance, however, the issue has not yet been resolved. The resettlement program, the deportees, is at risk of collapse. The implementation of the arrangement program is the fate of thousands of people, their dwellings, the light in their homes, water, gas, schools for their children and so on. In addition, the lack of funds will certainly have an unwanted political resonance. So I'm asking for a personal intervention from the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to contribute to his solution, this question. It's been a week, and it can all be reconciled. The second question I'd like to pay attention to. The media are well aware of my extremely tolerant attitude toward journalists in general. I always try to respond to their requests for interviews, for sharing in broadcasts. Today I want to ask them. Asking some media not to be involved in certain technologies for destabilizing the situation in Ukraine in general and in specific regions of Ukraine. I want to take note not only of journalists, but, first of all, of law enforcement officials, the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, look at the sheets of some of the Crimean newspapers, look at some of the Internet releases, especially in recent weeks, when the situation on the gas problem has become somewhat tense. Already some of the publications that are registered here in Ukraine have almost come up with ideas that are inevitable, there, fighting conflicts and so forth, and the population of Ukraine, including Crimea, may be hostages. I want to urge everyone to distinguish between the problems that need to be solved and their political ambitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u84	Yes, Kobec gives the word to Mikola Catherinechuku. Please prepare Michael Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u85	Dear citizens of Ukraine, honourable national MPs, I would like to draw your attention to a problem that concerns not only my constituency No.13 of Volin County, but also Ukraine as a whole. The city of Hmelnik, the leading and only radon resort in Ukraine. Thanks to the uniqueness of the treatment options of radon water, the high professional level of doctors is 97 percent effective. Every year, about 456,000 citizens are healed at the Hmilnik resort. The supply of balneological resources allows the admission of up to 100,000 citizens per year, but the limitations of the funds involved, the resources do not allow the expansion of the network of sanatoriums and the improvement of their infrastructure, and then hinders the further development of a unique resort. So it's very relevant to create a very attractive investment environment in this region. During 2003-2003, I worked with the Executive Committee of the Hmelnicki Municipal Council, with the Mayor of Melniczuk, a draft of the Ukrainian Law “Proclamation of the natural territories of the town of Hmelnika Region by a resort of State importance”. The main purpose of the bill is to approve the boundaries of the resort's health care and to grant these areas appropriate status to serve as a signal of the State's special treatment of this territory. The above bill has been officially declared twice by all interested ministries and has been accepted by other executive authorities, conducted twice in the Ministry of Health’s legal expertise, and submitted to the Ministry of Health to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. All the positive conclusions of the ministries and offices that confirmed the operations within the district and the health-care areas of the resort and the need to leave the existing 41 areas of the first protection zone instead of one of Hmeljnik's total first health-security zone. In October 2005, a meeting was held in the Cabinet of Ministers, where on another occasion conclusions were presented as to the correctness of the position of the developers and relevant experts, settled complex issues, and the bill was due to reach a two-week deadline for a government committee. During this time, however, two governments have changed, and the bill has been passed for the third time by appropriate ministries and departments. That's why I'm speaking on behalf of the people of Hmelnik, Minister of Economics of Yatsenuk, Minister of Construction, Architecture, Housing and Utilities of the country of Kachura. Minister of Culture and Tourism of Lichov, Ministry of Justice of the Head, hasten the execution of Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov's mandate and consider this bill on the Government Committee and submit it to the Supreme Council as urgent for adoption. I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and you, citizens of Ukraine, and I would like to welcome everyone with the New Year, with the Christmas Cross and wish you confidence in the future, the democratic future of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u86	Thank you. You have to support this, but Mikola Dmitrovitch, you call them on the airbourne and get them to pass the law faster, and I'll make sure that we accept it in the Supreme Council. Please, Loboda Mikhailo, prepare Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u87	I beg you to pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u88	Yuri Solomatin. Yavorowski's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! On the eve of the 2006 elections, the phenomenon of so - called national solidarity was brought to the surface. Solidarity or corporateism is not political news. Let's think about it, but let's look at the manuals, this is the unity of everyone around a certain idea. But what is this idea and around what, and why do such connections occur? Consider, for example, the proletarian solidarity of the workers of all countries and the famous call: “The proletarians of all countries, unite!” This is one unity. The second unity around a religious idea is demonstrated today by modern Islam, in its radical movements, in the Palestinian movement, or by the Usamas of Ben Laden. And that's solidarity. The unity around the national idea was demonstrated by Italian and German solidarity in the 1930 ’ s in Europe. The consequences of such national solidarity are known as Italian and German fascism, World War II, and tens of millions of victims. So pulling on the Ukrainian political surface of so-called Ukrainian folk solidarity is a very dangerous sign, a sign of the birth of protofascism in Ukraine. This is the Führer's phenomenon in the führer's skirt, so I urge everyone who is not indifferent to the fate of Ukraine or politics, or the ordinary citizen, to turn back on those who have a burning heart, but not with their own heart, as Danko did once, but with the heart of our Ukrainian people. Destroyed by greedy hands on the surface, greedy hands, with greedy intentions to use again, create another super or postmodern orange revolution. It won't work, Your Honor. A place of your Ukrainian folk solidarity where German and Italian fascism ended in the new Nuremberg process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski, prepare Leukko Lukyanenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u91	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Timoshenko, Yavorovščina, Jovkovščina, Lvivsk Region Most importantly, if I had listened to my predecessor, I would have offered such a modern slogan today. I'm no longer surprised at my colleague Solomon. I'm just wondering what else he'll come up with. Because of this, I would like to say that my very popular slogan would be today: “The proletarians of all countries, forgive today Solomon for all that he has said today.” Because we're going to meet the Führer in the skirt. I don't know. Mr. Yuri, you probably didn't just choose this year's stupidity, the limit stayed, and you decided to throw them out today. But there's something else I'd like to say, dear colleagues. I'd like to reject this evil, after all, we're entering the new year, Christmas is something that's so bright, so bright, though very short-lived. I would like to address those Ukrainians whose soul is troubled today. I understand very well how hard it is for them to experience what happened in the revolutionary camp, what happened to Ukraine and the environment of the people who were on the ground. I receive a lot of letters from all over Ukraine for my program “20 minutes with Vladimir Yavorowski” and this pulse feels so fine. I'd like to reassure you on behalf of Julia Timoshenko's block. Our dear ones, understand, many things have happened very painfully. I personally, let's say, looked forward to the fact that on stage 22 our President, as the highest official for whom we've been approving, which we've actually put into the President's chair, which he will give, in fact, to Julia Timoshenko, and others. And we wouldn't have the problems we have today. We're going through this painfully. But I would like to reassure you by what, at all, I still believe and believe my colleagues from BUT, and believe my colleagues from “Our Ukraine” and from the Ukrainian People's Party, which, after the elections, we will be able to unite and create here in Parliament a completely viable, normal, patriotic Supreme Council. Not what you heard today. I've told you before that I don't know what Burkina Faso represents here. The people elected here to the Supreme Council to hate this people so much. Well, how can you? Well, hate. Go somewhere or don't go to Parliament. Because, again, I want to say, we believe that we will go straight through this election without much hostility. That we will surely unite, because if we don't protect Ukraine next year, if we don't lead it on a normal civilised path, our lives, our political being loses all meaning. I greet you all once again on behalf of the New Year's and Christmas Christs Block. Good, happy and merry holidays for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u92	Leukya Lukyanenko, prepare for Sulkovi Paula
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished colleagues who remain here and, the distinguished Ukrainian people, welcome you also with the New Year and the Christmas Christ. God forbid the next year is better than the one we're about to end. This past year, Ukraine has indeed done something very important and, for example, at the end of our work, we today passed the Law on the Conversion of the Presidential Republic to the Parliamentary Presidential Republic. In the same way, we have opened a new chapter in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. This does not mean that we are entering a paradise of God and a nursery where everything will be good, but nevertheless, a test of a new form of government can produce better results than what was happening in the presidential-parliamentary form of government. It's one of the greatest possible achievements of the past year, but I also wanted to point out that we have a second important phenomenon that also happened last year, it's our press, our media, and in fact, we were born as the fourth authority. This happened when our press began to investigate the activities of our President and our senior civil servants. They didn't want to, but the press stood up for their rights, and that's a big deal, because where there's a fourth authority, where there's free media, there might be democracy. I think that's different from Russia and Belarus. And don't let us be praised by Lukashenko's father. He's doing something for the people. But this is what he does, not the people. And Ukraine wants to become a state where the people themselves will make their history. I'm also sad that last year, there wasn't, and the Supreme Council didn't care about rebirth of Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian customs. When we look at our printing, at our cinemas, at our cinemas, at our movies, at our movies, everything is in terrible decline. But as a member of the National Affairs and Security Committee, I am particularly saddened by the fact that both the Supreme Council and our government do not care about strengthening the Ukrainian Armed Forces. As before, they have received modest funding and continue to receive it. But in the same Armed Forces, much of the funds provided by the Supreme Council are stolen and the moral condition below the plentuse, as they say. Thus, the moral condition of our society desires to be better. I'd like all citizens to pay attention to this and return gradually to the Christian commandments, and to that morale of our Ukrainian nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u94	Yes, I don't see the Sulkovian Paul. Please, Malinowski is handing John Bokom. Prepare Michael Warthought.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u95	Dear voters, dear Ukrainian people! Let me welcome you on behalf of the socialists of Ukraine and the New Year and the coming Christmas of Christ and with all the constellations of celebrations that bring the new year! Wishing for good, happiness, and joy! Let me also welcome you from the new year to the parliamentary-presidential republic, where local self-government will be significantly expanded. This means that local communities, you voters, will have more power to influence Ukrainian authority and resolve your own issues. But, of course, all of this is not going to happen, and all of this has to be fought. And I'll tell you this. When you think about moving to the parliamentary-presidential republic today, you're mentioning the stormy years of the beginning. The end of the tenths of the 20s of the last century. So it turns out that I'm literally reading these days a book by the publicist of our great countryman, Vladimir Galactica Queen, who, unfortunately, came not to Kiev, but to Moscow, but it's a beautiful book. It has famous letters to Lunacharsky. There are letters from Poltava that few have read and there are, I would say, even a literally mirror image of that political cannon that was then, which is still in our state today. And when I talk about it, it pains me to recall that Vladimir Galactica Queen has not yet been placed in Poltava a worthy monument. There is a memorial on his grave, and to a man who was Russia’s conscience then, of course, the conscience of Ukraine, a man who was respected by the world for the principle of civic standing, who stood up for Ukrainian peasants, who stood up for the dignity of a small citizen so far, we have not set up a monument. And he's not alone, unfortunately. The monument and the greatest poet of 20th - century Ukraine, Paul Tikina, is lost. And he, among other things, was also the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for many years. I think it is. and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that Ukraine has not yet honored its great son as a monument. I think that when we enter the future, we need to keep in mind those who created this future, those who brought it closer to us. I think the names of Vladimir Queen and Paul Tikina in this row are the brightest and most needy ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u96	Mikhailo Ratushny, followed by Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u97	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Mikhailo Ratushny, non-factional. A year ago, we were all standing on the grounds, standing on the streets of Ukraine for our national and human dignity. Independence. For three weeks we were not very interested. Whether we were warmed, our hearts warmed, our confidence that we would stand firm and preserve our dignity. We were not afraid of the agitators of the neighboring state, who twice, not going where they needed to go, greeted no winner of those elections. We were sure that we were invincible. We stood up for this freedom for three weeks. It was much easier for us because the Cossacks of Hmelnicka fought for Ukraine's independence and Ukrainian dignity for six years and suffered defeats, the UPA soldiers fought for decades and did not see this independence and freedom. And it's been a year. Of course, the disappointment, the inability of some of the leaders to see national interest, the dissatisfaction that was quite common in Ukraine, and now the gas blackmail, leads to the expectation that we will surrender that freedom. I'm sure you need to speak frankly. We have a difficult and serious winter ahead of us. The struggle for independence and national dignity continues. I'm sure the Ukrainian electorate, the Ukrainian citizen, understands that the Lithuanians of their time have to stand up to that gas energy blackmail. After that, we can't be sure that just three weeks of fighting allows us to feel secure from attacks from the East or from the North or on either side. I am addressing you, honourable voters, do not give in to disappointment, let us demonstrate that in the following year, which will be difficult, unfortunately, none of the party leaders who are engaged in the parliamentary struggle are talking about it. We will demonstrate that we are a European nation, that we are a worthy nation, that we are a nation with a Cossack tradition. On behalf of the non-fractionals, I want to join those greetings with the New Year, with the Christmas holidays, let this Christmas Christmas warm the Ukrainian souls even if the gas is off. Let us once again understand that, like our predecessors, the price of independence and freedom is very high, and we are willing to pay it. Then we will confirm our glorious history and confirm that we are a great and glorious Ukrainian nard. With the New Year you and Christmas Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u98	Paul Pulkowski. Get ready for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! As the national deputy of the Goshan constituency number 154, I was asked to address the deputy of the Plain District Council, which was adopted at the session of the Ravenna District Council, and to make this statement in Parliament. “To the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the non-derogation of the level of social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and the granting of the status of a special ecological territory to the Ravens. The Chernobyl disaster became a global tragedy, taking away the lives and health of many, causing serious environmental and social consequences, resulting in the pollution of most of the areas of the Plains. The national programme to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 2002-2005 and for the period up to 2010 provides a set of rehabilitation and development work for areas affected by radioactive pollution. This priority is to create proper working conditions in rural areas, the flexible and multisectoral workplace systems, and the construction of social infrastructure. However, Ukraine’s 2006 National Budget project does not provide for an increase in disability pensions. The size, compensation and financing of housing issues, etc. are limited. The level of social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is declining. And this one. It's at a time when it's influenced by something else. There has been a significant increase in cancer, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, neuro-psychic diseases, and congenital developmental defects in recent years. We, the vice-deputies of the Ravenna District Council, and the people's deputies from the Plaintice, are asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take the necessary measures to prevent a reduction in the level of social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. In addition, we would like to take into account that the Plains region falls within the zones of the two active nuclear power plants of Ravenske and Hmelnick. Ladies and gentlemen, please speed up the adoption of the Nuclear Power and Radiation Security Act to supplement this draft decree, which was adopted in the first reading last Sunday. Party. The faction of the regions of Ukraine calls on the Supreme Council to really support and the “Regions of Ukraine” support the appeal of the Plain District Council on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u100	Volodymyr Movcan. Get ready for Mikola Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u101	Vladimir Movchan, MP’s “Rebirth” Group of the Political Party “Rebirth”. I join my colleagues before me with a wish in the new year and with Christmas Christ, and I would like to wish, as Vladimir Yavorowski said, a light to those who are to receive help today, according to a Supreme Council decree of almost 8 and a half thousand dollars at the birth of a child. One of the most notable social achievements of this year has undoubtedly been the establishment of a truly decent level of assistance for the birth of a child. By doing so, the State demonstrated its genuine concern for motherhood and the future of the nation. Thus, it is especially sad when such important steps are levelled, at least in part, by mechanisms that implement them. We have a lot worse tradition than the laws themselves. It has long been known that the best work can be lost by its careless execution. In this regard, I would like to draw the attention of the government and the national deputies to the existing order of appointment and assistance in the birth of the child. As a national deputy, I have been repeatedly approached by young mothers about the complexity and mistrust of collecting the necessary documents and help with the birth of a child. This is especially true of parents who are not insured in a compulsory state social insurance system at birth. For them, the number of documents they need is much larger than the number of insurance policies. Recently on television, we all saw several families explain that they had been unable to receive such assistance for eight months. That's why our faction has these proposals. First, take a look at the reduction in the number of documents needed to get help. This applies to those ministries that today, these documents, so to speak, have legitimized their regulations. There should only be a child’s birth certificate and a statement. Secondly, government agencies that assist in the birth of a child have to find out among themselves what documents are needed, and directly with the participation of their employees, collect these documents and issue all the evidence, and help and so forth to the applicant. Thirdly, the way a child is born must be convenient and accessible irrespective of the place of residence and the recipient. And the fourth. Costs provided by the State are essential for many young families, but monthly aid is not enough to solve urgent problems, since it is not designed for ever - increasing prices of child nutrition, hygiene, and medicine. Therefore, it is necessary to compare price fluctuations with monthly aid. These proposals by the “Resurrection” MP are also quite relevant for other forms of assistance to families with children, since the shortcomings mentioned above are inherent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u102	Mikola Komar. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u103	Thank you. The Honourable Chief, Honourable Colleagues, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, the “Regions of Ukraine” faction notes with deep concern that today’s authorities are cynically ignoring the problems of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, reducing their level of state support, leaving them alone with many problems. In particular, in the 2006 approved budget, there are totally no sanitation programmes for children and persons with disabilities totalling 220 million dollars and provision of medicines with free prescriptions for 82 million dollars. The Ministry of Finance plans to translate these programs into district administrations, which, in conjunction with the central budget, seem to buy travels and medications of the listed category. But it's nothing more than a lie to the population. First, as long as the relevant documents are processed, it will take six months, secondly, the Chernobyls who live in the subsidy areas, which are more than two million, get nothing at all. Where will the corresponding funds for these programs be made available in the budgets of Montenegro’s grants, Winnitzchina, or Cherkashchina? Next crime of the government: since the beginning of 2005, there has been no payment and it is planned in 2006 not to pay hospital treatment courses, surgery, emergency services to all black people, except for those who have an accident at CHAES. So out of 2.6 million, only 100,000 Chernobylites can theoretically count on planned treatment. Then, twice, from 29 million to 15 million dollars, a reduced program of capital construction. Instead of improving the quality of life of people in radioactive zones, the program envisions the construction of objects that are not directly related to Chernobyl and located outside the zone. The state has lost its leadership in solving Chernobyl problems, the ruined verticality of the authorities dealing with the problems of the Chernobylites. At Min's. CHAES came a wave of incompetent people far from the realm. The Ministry has designed a national programme to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and these gentlemen planned to reduce the number of Chernobylites from the current 2.6 million to 1.1 million by 2010. How does the current authorities explain its planned loss of one and a half million black people? The conclusions of the so - called Chernobyl Forum and the conclusions of the MAGATE experts, which are striking by their illogical and double standards, are the basis for this abuse by the government of Chernobyl. The faction of the Ukraine region believes it is their duty to restore justice in the state’s view of the problems of the Chernobyl population and to finance the corresponding costs in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u104	Peter Cibenko. Prepare Oleg Panasovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. From this rostrum, I would like to address some of my warring colleagues with a request to lower my belligerent rhetoric. Because the point is that these statements, extremely sharp, will have to be paid to our citizens, the average citizens of Ukraine. I would like to encourage them not to spit in a well from which they drink water, including a gas well. I am especially surprised to see some of my colleagues looking for a fifth column in the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine, where they are far more than working. So I would very much like everyone to be very careful about what I'm saying, because it's about extremely delicate things. And second, what I wanted to say today, to the citizens of Ukraine. The closer the Ukrainian Supreme Council, the authorities of local self-government, the louder the statements are made by the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that the administrative resources will not be used. This is already a very clear sign to me that it will be used on a much larger scale than it was before. And the extra proof of that is the document that came into my hands. And this is a reference to the President of Ukraine and the Attorney General. This is about the fact that a group of teachers and students of the Cremenacian Medical School addressed the Cremenacian Regional Society “Protection”, which provides for the protection of Ukrainian citizens’ rights and freedoms. On November 8, 2005, the deputy head of the Kremenec District State Administration of the Ternopil district of Kravczuk, using the absence of a medical school director and his deputies, attended the graduation group’s lecture in order to order the teacher of Zeljtecki’s pediatrics to stop and leave the audience. He then gave the students enquiries to join the National Union “Our Ukraine” and announced that he promised all those who would fill out the questionnaires and join the party employment after the end of the institution in February-March 2006. This is how the administrative resource is used today. It is also very important that the participants in these events and the deputy director and the instructor and the students confirm these testimony with their voices. I would like to ask Adam Ivanovich to consider this part of my statement an official request to the Attorney General and the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u106	Oleg Panasovski. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Ukraine Party has had to draw the attention of the deputy corps and the public of the country to an extremely acute problem that threatens the national security of Ukraine. It is the supply of Russian and Turkmen gas to our State. Today the question is like this. Will Ukraine have an autumn-winter period without economic and social shocks, as will the country's gas problem in the sectors that form the basis of Ukraine's exports, what are the projected effects of the gas problem on the economy and citizens of the country, is there a risk of a gas crisis becoming fuel and energy? What will happen to the State budget for the coming year, based on existing gas prices? The Ukrainian public should receive objective information. It is worth noting that the gas problem in Ukraine arose at the fault of the Ukrainian side in the negotiations with Gazprom in March this year, unexpectedly, without preliminary calculations and an expert evaluation of the willingness to move to a monetary form of calculation instead of a barter. In order to achieve an annual gas balance at a new price, Ukraine will have to pay over two and a half billion United States dollars. Without the introduction of energy-saving technologies, this increase in gas prices will become a killer for the domestic economy. According to estimates by Ukrainian experts, Ukraine was not prepared for new forms of gas calculations. Ukraine's “Neftegaza” actions by its leader, Ivchenko, are not assessed as professional and irresponsible in this particular situation. The Prime Minister's visit to Moscow proved unsuccessful. The Protocol on the Supply of Gas in 2006 was not agreed upon with Russia. The issue of natural gas delivery from Turkmenistan for 2006 was not resolved. The negotiation process is deadlocked. Such uncertainty would cause price insecurity in the country. In a situation where all visible signs of a systemic crisis appear in the country, the Party of the Regions' parliamentary faction declares: the Government's professional and irresponsible policy of responsible people in providing Ukraine with gas makes it a critical and complex economic situation, makes our relationship with the strategic partners of Russia and the European Union worse. The Faction of the Party of the Regions calls on the President of Ukraine to intervene personally in the negotiation process, to bring to justice those responsible that negotiations are not beneficial to Ukraine solely for political reasons. The faction of the Party of the Regions demands that Ivchenko be expressed distrust and removed from the leadership of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. Grounds: Ivchenko, by his unweighted political statements and actions, has done great harm to Ukraine's international image and the country's economic interests, is the main culprit in the situation. Attempts to shift full responsibility for the situation in Ukraine to the Russian side are baseless and uncorrected. Russia's actions are a forced reaction to our non-friendly, non-coherent, ambitious actions towards it. Please take into account my statement by the faction of the Party of “Regions of Ukraine”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u108	Victor Mironenko, prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u109	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Crimea, Mironenko, 5 constituency. Respectable compatriots! Certain individuals in the United States of America, despite the plight of Ukraine, call for continued looting, which makes Ukraine's citizens increasingly poor, to avoid the creation of Ukraine's Single Economic Area, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, although everyone already understands that this Single Economic Area will contribute to the restoration of Ukraine's beneficial economic ties, economic growth, an increase in the standard of living of the people. The tragedy for the people is that the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko, actually held secret talks with the leader of the United States CIA, while another leader of the orange revolution, and in fact, the coup d'état, all known as Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, held the same talks with Condoleezza Rice, a US official. Such actions will have negative consequences for the people of Ukraine, and this is evidenced by much, but at least see what has happened today. Today, the draft regulations prepared by me and other MPs, Social Democrats, the Regions and the People's Party of Lithuania have been put to the vote, and the rulings on the establishment of the Single Economic Area have been adopted. Of the 92 necessary agreements to establish the EP, the President and the Government in a year and a year and a half, in fact, have not signed any agreements, impeded the establishment of the Single Economic Area. Who voted in favour? The Company of Ukraine, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, Block Lithuania, the Regions of Ukraine, the Socialist Party of Ukraine voted in favour. [[Joint]] But they did not vote in favour of the extremely necessary decree required by the people of Ukraine, Our Ukraine, Yushchenko, Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian People's Party, Kostenko, Ruh, representative of Tarasyuk, Minister for Foreign Affairs, a terrible policy for the people, Reform and Order, Pinzenik to all known who, through the privatization of trusts, etc. Robbed the people and the Chinese there too, the Kinakh faction was also negative. But in January, we will try to insist on making the necessary decisions for the people of Ukraine. Otherwise, we will continue to observe how our domestic economy is being destroyed and the people are increasingly impoverished. It's over. Dear people of Ukraine, citizens of Ukraine, I would like to congratulate you on the coming New Year, wish you health, greater happiness in all things, joy, all things good!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u110	Igor Šurma and here the Rabbit is handing him over, so he can talk for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u111	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'd like to pause in my speech on a few questions to analyze: some of the actions of power is a system, whether it's an accident. First. The situation in Ukraine around free economic zones and priority areas is extremely tense. Already almost destroyed by the irresponsible rule of the “oranges ” the economic system of the country faces the threat of new shocks. An unthinkable, dangerous, economically unfavourable policy of resuscitating free economic zones and territories, applied by the “oranges”, has put the country in line with the investor's loss compensation problem. The probability of a mass lawsuit filed by investors is a reality that, according to experience, Ukraine will still have to face. The experience we're talking about is events that have unfolded as a result of appropriate policies in Georgia. It was in this post-revolution, as in Ukraine, that the trial began actively only two years after the abolition of free economic zones. Then, when investors finally realized that there was no other way to solve the issue. In fact, a person is wise, not only can he draw conclusions, but he must also learn from mistakes. Better for strangers, in this case in Georgian. But even the laws that come out of world wisdom are simply not written for our “orangers. ” You can see that Georgian experience has not become a science for the “oranges. ” What did our President propose on the subject of free economic zones and territories? The final initiative, as always, is cunning and, as always, empty. According to the head of state, Ukraine has compromised that the value added tax is not paid by structures that are exclusively exported. Customs don't take off either. And this regional idea was presented by our President as an advisory board on foreign investment. The President understood everything, but the counselors would have had to remember that the idea had already been discussed two months ago and had caused serious security for many investors. Not only did exporters come to Ukraine through free economic zones beneath them. One of the main factors that has involved investors in our zones and territories was the ability to work on a fine Ukrainian internal market, which is, by the way, perfectly normal in terms of world practice. So the mechanism proposed by the President does not remove the problem and does not have anything to do with the compensation of the losses that investors have incurred since the destruction of the zones and territories. Then what was the garden for? Such initiatives not only restore the lost confidence of investors in Ukrainian authority but also, in fact, reinforce mistrust, which is understandable. Who will respect a partner who changes the rules of the game during the game itself and does so without warning? Hence, the authorities rekindle problems and do not even think about the consequences. The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine believes that in a situation involving investors, in fact, the deluded new regime should operate completely different mechanisms. [[united]] First, to return to the question of free economic zones and areas of priority development and to restore to the full the appropriate relief articles that were eliminated this spring. Secondly, it is clear that investor losses will be fully compensated, and all issues raised will be resolved in court. It is these clear and logical actions that can restore investors’ confidence in Ukraine. The silence on this issue, and hence the controversial initiatives, are only able to annoy those who are so passionately loved by the Ukrainian authorities, and these are investors. Although for the oranges, that's not an argument. In their love for their own people, they too swore. Including in Maidan, this did not prevent them from throwing the people into hell of hopelessness. The second question I would like to address is the National Council for Television and Radio. On December 20, she decided to deprive TET of the right to speak in three cities: Zaporozhye, Tokmak, and Melitopolis. It seems that from Nakradya’s point of view, TET began to speak in a timely manner. In fact, TET went on air according to the law, and the substance of Nacrad’s claim is actually that TET did not inform its members of the beginning of language within a ten - day period. However, according to the law, the television company should not inform the Nakrad about the beginning of language on frequencies that enter the valid license. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a decision to listen to Nacrada's report here in the Supreme Council, actually for the media. I think Adam Ivanovich that next week we have to go back to this question, given that the Supreme Council has taken a decision, and the Cabinet of Ministers has decided not to intervene, not to conduct checks during the election campaign. The next question that describes the systemicity of this power is administrative pressure. On Saturday, congregations were scheduled to take place in the city of Colomia in order to hold a referendum on a national initiative. It all began in the city council when, in violation of Ukrainian legislation, they refused to accept and register messages. And then there's the calls, the threats. What's more, the college director replaced Fuch's work schedule, which was supposed to be responsible for it, and he was given a working day. That's not how it's supposed to work. We'll do something different. And I would like to ask the authorities not to forget that she was supported by Lviv. He's 750 years old. I didn't give you a penny. 150 years since John Frank was born. They didn't give us anything. You don't have to. That is why I propose to greet those who want to hear me today. I welcome all the united Social Democrats with the New Year and Christmas Christ! We've had a difficult time, we're going to survive this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u112	Thank you. But as a former Levian, I say, you have to, you have to. Don't say no. We need the money in 750 years and 150 years. Yes, Igor Mikhailovich. Yes, please, Basil Calinchuk. And get ready, there's gonna be a line, there's gonna be a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u113	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters! The faction of the People’s Party of the People’s bloc of Lithuania did not call attention to the government’s unsatisfying development of rural areas. Today, only 28 percent of rural areas are gassed. Over 27,000 miles [27,000 km] of gas work is buried in the earth and is not exploited. Because they're not funded by jobs. Thousands of schools are long - standing. The number of factories is decreasing, cultural buildings and other social facilities are closing down. More than 1,200 locations are not supplied with drinking water, quality drinking water, and I would like to highlight it. Of particular concern is the sharp decline in housing construction, especially for young people. The village grows old and dies. This is evidenced by the fact that several dozen rural areas disappear each year in the country. This is evidence that despite slogans that speak from different rostrums about the support of citizens living in rural areas, the state does not take concrete steps to improve the situation. Judge for yourself. This year, there is no funding programme for the gasification of villages for the removal of waste gas from rural areas. Only 26 percent of the budget is allocated to the computerization of rural schools. No school bus running. So programs are made up, statements are made, and there are no concrete actions. No results. Significant amounts could be made available at the expense of local owners. But the budget does not provide for cost-recovery to manufacturers. The faction of the National Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania refers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First. These few days before New Year’s, we will finance all programs related to the development of rural areas. After all, the budget is being budgeted, as the information is coming in. It's different. In accordance with the Act on State Budget 2006 to finance rural construction programs from the first months on an equal footing each month. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u114	Yes, thank you. Please, Mikhail Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u115	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dearly beloved, our radio listeners! From my colleagues by faction, from my partymates, I warmly welcome you once again all the workers with the coming New Year, with a desire for health, well - being, and efforts in the struggle for freedom and justice, for which all the Communists are struggling to get rid of the persecution of those in power. The following letter to me as the national deputy of Beckett's Jana Mikolayovna, Northdoneck City of Lugansk, who works as legal adviser to the Luhansk district organization of the chemical, oil and chemical industry, shows the specific fact of such persecution. She said she was helping the citizens of the city to address various state institutions with complaints about the wrong decision of the Northdonian to raise public services, and she was threatened. The city’s prosecutors are being challenged, and citizens are being threatened with complaints about these issues. Severodonetska, a prosecutor’s assistant, exerts constant pressure on Beckett, tries to intimidate her, to stop trying to protect the rights and interests of the citizens. This is because the protection of citizens is a direct service obligation. Of course, a person has legitimate fears about his life and the health of his loved ones. What's possible in Ukraine is thunderstorms for life, many old examples. She refers to the National MP as her last hope, awaiting the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens and the state. Dear Jan Mikolayevna! We Communists will send your letter and papers to the Attorney General's Office, as you suggest. Regarding all citizens who feel the pressure every day, the Communists resemble the famous saying of Fuchik: “People, be vigilant!” Do not let them deceive you again. In a society where the worship of profit is proclaimed as a spiritual cult, which is ours with you Ukraine, justice and happiness will not be given, they are advocated in the daily struggle. Remember, when He said: "He is worthy of all happiness and of all freedom who go to battle for them every day." With a holiday coming upon you. Best for you in New Year's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u116	Thank you. Microphone, please, Solomatina, line, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u117	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Following my revealing speech today on Ukrainian popular solidarity, the political overcrowd, the Chernobyl soloist, has tried to defend these ideas and their author. By the way, each one's own. I just want to warn the working people that there are no examples of national, national deception in history. As a reminder, the Fuhrer of the German people had his way of deceiving the German people. In 1933-39, the Führer held five national plebiscites on annexation of the Rhine, Silez, Rur oblast, the Court and the independent State of Austria. And the people, having believed the Führer of the German people and his soloist by the name of Goebbels, voted "for" with an orange gleam in their eyes. What that led to is known. The current Ukrainian candidates have their own national solos, which daily cast poison into the minds and souls of the Ukrainian people on Ukrainian radio. People, be vigilant! Happy New Year, friends. Our cause is right, we're going to win! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-23-m0.u118	Yes, dear colleagues, we have spoken, those who wanted to, their applications and their questions. Now, listen to the announcement, please, because this is one of the most interested factions. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, I inform you that the Ukrainian national deputy Antonyev Hanna Petrovna withdrew her application to resign from the faction of the political party of industrialists, entrepreneurs of Ukraine. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies and article 4.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Alošina Valerija Borisovich into the membership of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Igor Rafailovich, of the composition of the National Union of “Our Ukraine” and the membership of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy” and article 4.2.2 of the Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of the Kafarsky Volodymyr Ivanovich of the faction of the People’s Party and of the membership of the deputy faction of the Party of Industrialists, entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Thus, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine has renewed itself in its status, has the necessary number to function. Dear colleagues, you and I are supposed to be working in constituencies next week, from January 3-6, national deputies will be working in committees, factions and groups. The plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on 10 January 2006 with the Government's Day on "On the condition of the population of Ukraine's disease against infectious diseases and measures to reduce it" and "On compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws on quality education in rural areas". And as we conclude our meeting, our honourable colleagues, let us, on your behalf, welcome the Ukrainian people, warmly welcome our voters with the New Year, and capture on your behalf the sincere hope that in the next year, 2006, our people will see a new parliament, new faces, new hopes and new expectations. We hope that, on the basis of the mandate of trust given by the people in the elections, we will form in Parliament a government of national confidence that will meet the expectations of the electorate and the programmes for which they will give their votes. Good to every family, peace and tranquillity of every family. And on behalf of my colleagues, I apologize for our actions and actions that may have displeased our voters at times. You forgive us, we'll be better next year. Good for you. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
