ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Enable the Council system. We're waiting. Cancel the vote. We need to get in, we're not up yet. Yes, please prepare to register with the Council system. [[10:03:31]] Registered at the 392 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today our colleague’s birthday, Vladimir Pavlovich, let us welcome him and wish him every success. Dear National Deputies! Please listen to the announcement. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2.3. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction "Trudova Ukrainiana" and the People's Democratic Party of 23 December 2004 inform that the authorized representatives of this faction have been elected by the national deputies of Ukraine: The Desert, Iofphe, Gladkih, Rabbit, Noshchenka, Petrova, Suprun, Šwiddenka. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Fedorovich, from the faction "Regions", and of the faction of the People's Agrarian Party of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 January 2005 announced the privatisation of Ukrainian heads of government, Nikola Janović, of a building located in the Konča-Saspa property. The Head of State Administration, President Panko of Ukraine, provided information on the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that no house was privatized by any natural or legal persons in Conchi-Sazpa territory. I'm bringing this information to your knowledge. I use official documents. Yes, honourable national deputies, the Conciliation Council of Deputies and factions agreed on the schedule of meetings for the plenary week of January 18 - 21. The meeting schedule for January 18 is given to you on Tuesday. Let's move on to the drafts. A draft Act on the procedure for the importation by citizens of objects into the customs territory of Ukraine is being introduced. The reporter is the first deputy head of the State Customs Service, Ivanjuk Mikolaiovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments of Skomarowski Vladimir Volodymyrovic. This is suggested by a professional committee: for a report of up to five minutes, answers to questions of up to three minutes, for a co-reporter of three and three minutes respectively, discussions and decisions have been written here for three minutes, let’s say at least 12 minutes, if there is no objection. Then let's get down to business. Yes, please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your point is that the bill is the order for citizens to import items into the customs territory of Ukraine. The project was developed and submitted by the Ukrainian Customs Service to the Supreme Council in September 2003. The project has been designed to address problems and unresolved issues identified during the practical application of the Ukrainian law on the procedure for importing personal goods, goods and transport into Ukraine since 2001. [[forwarding]] At the same time, the practical application of the law of Ukraine resulted in a series. During 2004, a number of issues arose in the context of the practical application of the new Customs Code of Ukraine and a comprehensive analysis of the problems that arose in the application of Ukrainian law and in the application of the requirements of the Customs Code of Ukraine. Along with the Ukrainian State Customs Service, with a view to resolving these issues, it has contributed to further development, has brought to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a list of changes that could address these problems, which are in practice. In this way, draft drafts of the Bills “The manner in which citizens import items into customs territory of Ukraine”, registration number 4067 – amending the Customs Code of Ukraine – are linked to the Customs Code of Ukraine. The bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs, which was considered by the Committee on Construction, Transport and Housing and Communications, also considered by the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. At the same time, the State Customs Service fully supports the proposal made by the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment regarding the need for the proposed draft to be drafted, taking into account that in the Customs Code Ukraine the changes made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been read and adopted and that the bill should be considered in a package with the Customs Code of Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Please note the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, the Communist faction, please. Matthew's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u4	Dear reporter, would you please tell me that this change in principle is in the previous order of importation or transfer of items into Ukrainian customs territory by citizens? Not all the changes there are, but the main thing is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u5	Thank you so much for asking. The fundamental changes made to the procedure for citizens to import items into the customs territory of Ukraine about what changes the understandable apparatus. The law defines goods. We suggest that changes be made to objects that are more general and that will allow for a clear definition of customs procedures for goods, transport and personal items that are not yet regulated and clearly written today. At the same time, I would like to point out once again that the proposed changes have been over for some time, over a year have passed, the new Customs Code has entered into force, and we propose to consider the proposed changes in the amendment package to the Customs Code of Ukraine, which are inherently linked to each other, and these requirements are recalled in the Customs Code of Ukraine amending the bill. We therefore reiterate our position on the Committee's proposal to submit the bill to the Committee for further work, taking into account the relevant changes over the past year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u6	Matthewenkov, faction of the Ukraine region, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u7	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Mikhail Nikolaevich, please say this is about personal matters. It makes sense that the cars you've assigned to a separate section, the currency you've assigned to a separate law. With regard to personal items, especially worth up to 10,000 euros, the mechanism of the whole case. How will a person who imports such a thing declare it? Twenty per cent of the value to pay the fee, excise duty plus 20 per cent VAT. Doesn't it seem like all of these measures that we're talking about today are creating such a burden that will just give birth, we'll say so, the next step, and we'll just legitimize the smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u8	Thank you for asking. You've read the law clearly enough. Just as the State Customs Service proposes to bring these things into line today, which are not regulated by law. This is precisely what the current legislation provides. We're working on this bill, and it's these things that are going to be worked out and accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u9	Vladimir Demökhin, faction of the "One Ukraine" party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Demehin, 184th District, Herson, faction of the "One Ukraine" party. Dear Mikhail Nikolaevich, I have some questions. First. We have adopted a serious document, the Customs Code. Do you consider it appropriate to send this bill for further work or to regulate all customs activities under the Customs Code, a basic document that is fundamental to you? That's the first one. Second. You know, one of the targets or one of the challenges, you're going to come back, it's really our integration into Europe. We are working hard to improve legislation, standardization, so to speak, to European standards. Are not the proposals that have been put into law today obsolete? The bill for a year and a half, could it be necessary to consider this law on a new complete platform? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u11	Thank you, Vladimir Anatolyovich. In answer to your question, I must point out that the issue of citizens' taxation has been defined exclusively in the Ukrainian Act of 2001 on the order of citizens' taxation. In the law, the Ukrainian Customs Code is not clear enough, so in the changes that are now being proposed and processed in the ministries and offices, we've brought this to the Cabinet of Ministers, this question, these gaps are being eliminated. That is why we propose to consider this bill in a package of amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code, which will be submitted in the future to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to the questions that the law is one and a half years in the Supreme Council and compliance with international standards, you should be told that when this law was passed, international legislation was clearly studied and the bill was applied to international legislation, and it did not change significantly. But given our offer, I would consider you, honourable deputies, to support the proposal and the committee, first of all, and the customs service to consider the package and amend the Customs Code and the bill. I mean, it's going to be reworked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u12	Thank you, Michael Mikolaiovich. Please be seated, time is running out. Vladimir Volodymyrovich Skomarowski, head of the Committee's subcommittee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Agriculture, Property and Investments from the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! This bill is very interesting, especially since the adoption of the Customs Code, the State Customs Service through the Cabinet of Ministers has introduced an interesting bill. It is based on the fact that the Law on the Order of the Import of Citizens exists and exists for three years. But why does this law appear again in the new edition in its entirety? Where's the dog? And the dog is trapped here in the End positions. By this law, the State Customs Service completely changes the essence of the Customs Code. Standards, such as those laid down in the Customs Code, are those that involve a citizen, a resident, a nonresident. They're changing things into a norm. The rule of law includes: personal goods, goods and means of transport moving across customs borders, and personal things are essential items, such as jackets, ties. And all of this will be taxed according to the norm, if so. exceeds the cost of 200 euros. Let's say we go together, I only have one passport, but the customsman is looking at a suit, like 100 euros, and there's a shirt. And he says, "You have to pay money because it exceeds 200 euros." That's the point. Imagine that a citizen of another country would visit our customs territory. He will say, "What country do you live in, respectable tax collectors?".. The Economic Policy Committee therefore firmly rejects the bill. We suggest that he be sent for further work and introduced a new bill, not just a revision of the Customs Code, but a revision of eight more laws relating to taxation, including the Pension Insurance Act. Why does this bill arise after it has been on the Committee for over a year? Because, of course, the level of smuggling due to the arrival of the new authorities will be reduced to an absolute minimum. I'd say zero. Because you need customs today? We need everyone who's going to have a financial claim to him today. I propose that this bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u14	The question, please, is there a question for our colleague? Please sign up for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u15	I agree with the Committee's conclusions and the question is very simple, this bill probably stands in a series of bills aimed at further politicising the Ukrainian State, violating human rights, and moving away from the normal laws that are now governed by the normal states of the world. What must be done to put an end to this food, including customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u16	Thank you. I totally agree with you. And when we talk about the level of customs inspectors today, we want to say first of all where the problem is. And the problem comes from the head. When the Head of State Customs introduces such a bill, after it has been laid down and must now be placed first in the agenda. This tells us what the authorities of the State Customs want, what is the problem, and then there will be no questions. And today, we have a normal customs code, according to some of the comments there, that can be amended, the law on import order and problems is only about wanting to serve the Ukrainian people and maintain a high level of the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u17	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u18	Thank you very much. But the chapter on "objectives and tasks of acceptance" very beautifully outlines the need for adoption of such a bill, simplification of customs control and customs clearance of goods. Is there this simplification, the improvement in the order of the customs treatment of goods, and this is necessary, to specify the procedure for the importation of personal goods by citizens. What is this specification? Strengthening control over the use of vehicles imported by citizens in Ukraine, and this is the problem. Well, there's some other stuff. In general, there is the impression that there are other things besides the concluding positions that you rightly criticized. Is it true, or is it true, or is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u19	Thank you. I want to tell you that nowhere in the world does personal things get taxed, it's nonsense. And how can this be taxed on my jacket, which is five years old? Or it could be in any distant country. And today, why is it written that there is a specificization, because the tax regime is changing, that is, the subject matter of taxation. There were goods in your hands that are new, and now you have objects, your jacket, your tie, your glasses. They can, too. This is what it's going to be like today. The customs inspector says your glasses cost 100 euros. And you say, no, it can't be. Now let's argue, let's go over here, write the value. Today, according to the law in force, all payments imported by citizens, whether by cars or by any kind of goods, are made at the border customs office, and before that, they were at the customs office where they live. So there's no problems today, there's a budget filling. But one problem is that fundamental norms and human rights are being violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u20	Vladimir Plutinski, please, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u21	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Barani.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u22	Alexander Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u23	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter! And you don't think, there's a record in the bill that goods worth more than 10,000 euros can be imported into Ukraine exclusively by external economic activity. That is, if we do not have a citizen as a subject of external economic activity, he is no longer able to import. I have a question from here, are these preferences created separately, are we going to tell financial groups to monopolize imports of this kind of product, and thereby undermine the rights of our other citizens? How can you explain this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u24	Thank you. I haven't been able to say everything, you're absolutely right, and you answered that question yourself. It really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u25	Yes, thank you, time is up, Vladimir Vladimirovich, please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. Please, the names of the national MPs who have been enrolled in the discussion, Vladimir Yavorowski, will prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u26	Vladimir Yavorowski. Javorowski, Jovkovsky District, Lvivščina Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In my constituency there are two large customs officers, Cracowec and Rava Ruska. One of them I literally went to last night. I'd like to say that maybe the worst period in Ukrainian customs is over, and God willing, we'll still be able to change the situation. It seems to me that the customs of Ukraine have been “glorified” in paws, of course, all over the world today. Who passed the Ukrainian customs office and saw the extended hands of every Ukrainian tax collector, who asked for something in hand with his eyes or gestures. This is the only thing that the Ukrainian customs will remember and, I think, nothing else. I just want to say that I had to have some insolence in order to offer us this bill, by the way, I want to remind you that this bill has been called: Horoshkovsky, Ribuk, Zlenko. So you can imagine how much dust was lying on this bill while it was sitting here in the Supreme Council. My colleague Skomarowski called the most basic evil, the most important thing in this bill, you see, they recorded that today they would be taxed objects. I have the impression that our passport is foreign when we move across the border or someone else, it's also an item, which is also a tax charge. I remember Muhammad Ali saying a beautiful phrase, this famous boxer: it's just a job. Grass is growing, birds are flying, and the sun is rising, and I am whipping people. So this is where you could put "and the tax collectors steal." This could have been, it's definitely in this row. This is Johnyuk, who we, our temporary investigator commission, who you made, was first accepted as a great Ukrainian patriot who also wanted to trade customs with us, and what did it end up with, Mr. Ivanyuk? That you appointed Kozak, a man who was completely incompetent, who stole customs for a year and a half, and drove money to the President's Office, and you knew that very well as a substitute. Because of this and your conscience will lie, what we have today on Ukrainian customs. Look around customs: Whose are the best houses? Built immediately, it can be guessed by 10 kilometers, customs. So I'm pretty sure this bill just needs to be thrown out. If any clarification is needed in the Customs Code, please suggest. But this bill is totally antihuman and is designed to keep tax collectors from stealing. Me and our Ukraine block are absolutely against this bill, and we also suggest you not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u27	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u28	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I'm here first, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You made such a loud remark today that no one there privatizes anything in Conchi-Sleep. The documents are in the technical inventory office for all the officials my associates claimed to be. It wasn't me who made that statement, but what they're doing there, we knew two months ago, and how many cars are protecting whose house today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u29	Let's do it on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u30	That's what I'm talking about. So that we do not make such a loud statement right from the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u31	I'm asking you not to give me directions. Speak on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u33	I read the official information I received.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u34	And I'm telling you the official information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u35	Once again, I ask you to speak on the subject and not teach everyone to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u36	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Is the new bill revolutionary? Of course not, because it was introduced in 2003. And it can't be revolutionary, because in order to establish contradictions, which is the purpose of this law, it seems, to establish contradictions, it had to make changes to the current Customs Code. It's obvious. Well, why did they go again by repealing the law that was before, in 2002. In 2002, July 11th, we only passed that law to cancel the import order, to adopt another import order law, only more awkward, even more reactive. And I think we're going the wrong way, we just had to go the wrong way by making changes to the Ukrainian Customs Code. This is especially relevant right now, and my colleague here was talking about the appointment of Mr. Kozak. He did not appoint; he did not appoint John. Well, doesn't that make sense? Assigned. He was the same intercessor because of the Tyre. So just so you know, just for yourself. So, honourable national MPs, I'm not going to vote for this bill, first of all, because it's out of date, and second of all, because instead of closing those legislative holes that exist to import the same means of transport for one year from those countries that are adjacent to us, we're getting, in fact, smuggling, and so on, all the other schemes that apply. Nothing to stop these schemes is happening in this project right now. In addition, the bill provides for exemption from taxation of transactions involving the importation of goods into Ukrainian customs territory by citizens. This is also contrary to existing legislation. So I will vote against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u37	Thank you. Mironenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u38	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. Respected compatriots, borders must be an obstacle to criminals, but not to honest citizens who cross the border, whether they try to survive, whether they go to visit. Agreed with the comments of the Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee's proposal for a bill on the procedure for the entry of items into the customs territory of Ukraine by citizens. However, I would like to stress the following. The adoption of laws relating to import and export regulations in Ukraine is of paramount importance, since our common house, called Ukraine, must have the doors that we open for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. The evil power that came to power in 1991, the evil profit fighters for capitalism, who used the idea of so-called liberalism, who deceived people, made our common home, in 13 years of rule, home to more than 70 million people of different nationalities, an unattractive cabin without a door. As a result, a resuscitated predatory, greedy class of capitalists removed a large part of public property from Ukraine, covering our people. It brings misery to the economy, to the people of Ukraine and massive imports into Ukraine of foreign goods, often of poor quality, which increasingly crowd out our domestic goods, weakening our economy. The Communist Party of Ukraine, as a State party, has always demanded the cessation of this criminal liberalization that destroys the domestic economy. However, the Ukrainian Company has always insisted and insists on a more free passage across the borders of Ukraine of our fellow countrymen, particularly those living in Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. Moreover, we insist on eliminating the customs border between the brotherly peoples. Millions of Ukrainians live in brotherly republics of Russia and Belarus. The so-called nationalists, Democrats and other supporters of capitalism are trying to turn the boundaries between the brotherly peoples into rigid borders, using the principle of “Split and rule” - a rumbling that the people have become free. The poet Constantine Frowl said beautifully: "The people can't be free unless they're separated. The ears are open to slander and the signs are hidden. They rejoice in the low souls when the people are divided. The faction of the Company of Ukraine insists on the elimination of customs borders between the brotherly States of Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. In this regard, the people of Ukraine and the faction of the Compartia of Ukraine also insist on more free passage and other borders, as the people of Ukraine are also interested. I also suggest that this problem be carefully thought out, that it should not simply be rejected, that it should be carefully thought out and adopted in the interests of the people and the economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u39	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, once upon a time, we could reach Chukotka or Kamchatka, but we could not reach Brussels, more to the United States of America, New York. It's the other way around. And I want to say the next thing. Let's think about when there were borders between countries, independent states of the former republics of the Union of Soviet Union, and we felt inhuman on these borders when we were "smanaging" our things and looking at us as we were the enemy. Now this procedure has become more liberal, but it needs a settlement, on the one hand, and further liberalisation, so that when a person crosses the border, he feels human; on the other hand, that the state that remains behind our back, or that person who enters from another country into our country, feels responsible for the implementation of all the laws that exist. So what I'd like to say is that those speeches that came out of this very rostrum, they put liberals in a state of small middle and large business, who were fiercely speaking out against any control over their business activities, including crossing the border. That way we can get, Your Honor, to the fact that we have only a flag, a coat of arms and an anthem, and all the other issues will not have to be settled. So let's not get into this situation with you. I want to remind you that this law has been seen by a well-known liberal cop from the team "The Winter Generation" of Horoshkovsky. I can't see that he could have suggested something stupid or not. The science-expert management, taking into account all the comments that are made, is still proposing to adopt this law as a basis. And that's why, given what I'm teaching, I still tend to think that what there is in the final positions and that was criticized by a committee of profile. All of this can be removed, but other things are appropriate, and this bill might be sent for further work to be done to protect the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Bill 4067 on the procedure for the importation by citizens of items into Ukrainian customs territory has been discussed. The committee proposes to send a bill for further work. May I have your attention, Your Honor? But in accordance with the Rules, I will first put to the vote a proposal for acceptance as a basis. The committee, on the other hand, proposes further work. Therefore, please note that the motion for adoption is based on the draft Act on the order in which citizens import items into customs territory of Ukraine, please identify themselves. [[Registration number 4067]] [[10:36:44]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee to re-read the draft Law 4067, on the procedure for citizens to import items into the customs territory of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:37:17]] For 1052 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have three draft laws. I will now read it to you. It is a draft of the Wood Export Regulation Act, the draft Law on Moratorium for the conduct of thorough logging and exportation abroad of wood and sawmills, the draft Law on Wood Cooking in the forests of Ukraine. These bills need to be discussed, given that we have a forest code for the second reading, and that these documents that we are considering do not conflict with the Codex. Perhaps we could discuss these three together, do you think? By procedure, please, Demjochin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u42	Vladimir Demiohin, 184th District, Herson, "One Ukraine" faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we have just considered a bill that dealt with the Customs Code, and now we will have three bills to consider concerning the first reading of the Forest Code, all of which are of an economic nature. There is a suggestion: let's take these bills into account, not today, but take them into account in the Forest Code, because these are the laws that destroy the Codes, the same customs, the forest laws. I think it would be very appropriate, even if we discuss them today, to take them into account, to reject them and to take them into account in the Forest Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to reject the bill, we have discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council, and we need to consider it and reject it. But these bills have been in the Supreme Council for over a year and a half. So we need to now, it's proposed that the report on these bills be made by the authors, then from the committee, we discussed them together, and the Supreme Council to identify and make the appropriate decision. Here the first bill is proposed to be accepted as a basis, two others to be rejected. Is there no objection? So let's do this, then I'm asking for Valery Ivanovich Samowovski's report, to prepare Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin and Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill is relevant to the preservation of the country’s plant world, and it is based on two main points. First, the ban on the export of roundwood and rare sawmills, I emphasize, of rare species. Secondly, the introduction of the issuing and presentation on the customs export of the wood of the certificate of origin in a round form. The main exporting suppliers of wood listed in the draft law are commercial structures, private enterprises, and individual citizens, who produce it mainly by themselves in forests, forests, gardens, forest parks, and other protected plants. The structure of the country’s forest fund, the export wood that is to be banned, is less than two percent. State enterprises do not export the wood in question, but they send it to the internal market to provide domestic furniture manufacturers. Some of the listed species are listed in the Red Book of Ukraine and are banned, but unfortunately, they are carried out, and this is especially true of such breeds as beef. It should be noted that the draft law should decide with respect to our nation's international treaties is article 20 of the Partnership and Exchange Agreement between the European Community and Ukraine, which was signed and ratified by the Supreme Council in 1994. Article 20 of the GAT, which regulates the rights of countries to prohibit the export of goods. The village breeds listed in the bill have little stock in the forest fund. Therefore, the adoption of this project does not entail a disguised restriction on trade. With regard to the implementation of the certificate, i.e. the testimony of the origin of the wood, the implementation of this bill will certainly have a positive effect on the state of the wood market in Ukraine. I would like to point out that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has entrusted the State with developing a mechanism to control the implementation of forest products by all forest users and to issue certificates of origin. The work is done. Thus, the certificate will be the only document for all forms of ownership. The draft law was supported by the Supreme Council Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u45	Yes, thank you, the questions will seem to be. Dear colleagues! Any questions to Valery Ivanovich? Please sign in for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please your question, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u46	Dear Valery Ivanovich! In general, I think that exports of wood, especially exports of sawmills, should be limited, in any case, imposed on these exports a certain amount of duty depending on whether it's oak or pine and so on. As you look at the imposition of duties, as Russia and all the other countries of the world do to take the sawmill abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. Dear Igor Raphaelovich! On this subject we talked a lot to you, I stand on the principle of one, when in 1991 the events that happened, Ukraine faced the fact that we didn't have the equipment to process, and I'm standing on the principles of deep wood processing, but unfortunately our industry hasn't released and is not releasing the equipment that is absolutely necessary. So some part of the wood had to be exported so that at the time we wouldn't take old equipment from Russia, but we would take modern Australian, Austrian, Italian, German. But all the revenue from selling wood, I emphasize, 100 percent should go to the technical restocking of the wood industry. This is my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u48	Anatoly Orzhachowski, the Communist faction, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear reporter, as we know, the Supreme Council was adopted in the first reading of the Forest Codex. To what extent does the bill you are introducing coincide with the idea of the Forest Codex? And second, do you not think that the time has come when the land under the woods near the highways and so on should be secured by the State Committee on Forestry? Otherwise, rural councils today are costless, with no frames, unable to protect their respective forest areas. This could be a future disaster for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u50	Thank you for two questions. I'm reporting on the first -- regarding the Forest Codex. Indeed, all the three laws that are being passed today are in certain parts and will be taken into account in the adoption of the Forest Code. But why do we bring this question to the walls of the Supreme Council, along with the MPs Ivancho and Balogo, because it's the Mapping to MP? Because such precious breeds in Zakarpata, such as cherry, nuts, and others, they are first and foremost cut off in gardens, forestlands. And we need to put in place a rule of procedure for this law from January 1st, because the Forest Code will be adopted a little later -- a few months later, and it will be put into effect on January 1st, 2006. We can't wait. And so the question is correct. In terms of land. Today, only 72 percent of all forests in Ukraine are made available to the State Forestry Committee. 28 percent are forests of former colonies, radgospas, airlines, and so forth, more than 50 users. And if it's a matter of forestlands to decide, and it's over 400,000, and it's more than 430,000, you have to make one decision: all forests have to be anchored for forest management by state structures. It's to save these forests.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u51	Thank you. Time's up. Valerius Ivanovich, please sit down. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please, with regard to Bill 3137, you are the author of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, maybe two years ago, I registered this bill in February 2003. But it was all done to get him here two years later to grow alternative bills and so on. And why did this happen, why did I even go into this problem? I went into this problem because I saw what's going on in Crimea, what's going on in the Carpathians, what's going on in Chernigius, in Cherkas, in other areas, in the Kyiv region. And after examining this situation, and after examining the Ukrainian citizens' request for forest conservation, I introduced this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the most profitable area of activity today -- the logging industry -- is being sold to entrepreneurial structures that buy forestry at a time, and they develop their own forces, take only high-quality wood, export it abroad, and the rest of the production remains and is being stolen. According to the customs authorities, high - quality wood is exported a year more than a logging logging plant that gives the right to be cut off. How did this become possible? A clear example of what this can lead to is that uncontrolled logging and logging are environmental disasters in the Zakarpathian region in 1998, 2001 and 2002. I think that the president of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, now had the opportunity to see what remains of the woods in the Carpathians. I'd like you to know that in the Swiss Alps floods, similar to the Carpathian floods, occurred almost 200 years ago. Once the cause of the disaster was understood, the country’s leadership had already given up severe scars in the mountains. And today, Switzerland has completely preserved forest landscapes without sloping, eroded mountain slopes, and the impact of natural disasters is declining. After all, the mountain Switzerland over a square of 41,3,000 square miles [41,3,000 sq km] a year produces 7 million cubic feet [7 million cu m] of wood, and the Ukrainian Carpathian over an area of 37,000 square feet [37,000 sq m] produces only 2.2 million cubic feet [2,2 million cu m]. The point is, in Switzerland, the scars are kept within the limits of natural growth. Only selective or cauldroned and small in the area with the use of air-guns. Wood is only made in winter. By the way, it was the same in times when part of our territory belonged to the Austro-Hungarian Empire. We're producing three times as much wood as we're doing, we're doing tens of times more damage to nature, we're cutting out, basically, at the snowless hour of the year, and we're doing it with caterpillar technology. In a forest fund along the banks of rivers, lakes, reservoirs, and other water objects, according to established standards, forest protection strips have been set aside. But despite the fact that the area of forests that perform water - protection functions is 392,000 hectares, the entire forest area of the first group, which is mostly protected, is 6 million hectares or 56 percent of the total area. During the previous years, the state - of - the - art industry created more than 100,000 hectares of protection plants along the banks of small rivers. Practically, this work was completed on the land of state forestry enterprises. More than 90,000 acres [90,000 ha] of protection plants were created along the banks of the reservoirs. However, these questions are now completely stopped, the answer to the question. This has to do with both a significant reduction in the amount of funding and a de facto suspension of the transfer of land. The current annual production of protection strips along the coasts is only 1.6 acres [1.6 ha] per year, with a general need for hundreds of thousands of hectares. And that's why, in the 50th year, anti-erosive plants and logging plants were planted in the area, respectively, 60 and 52 thousand hectares, but in 2002-2003, they were done in much smaller quantities -- 10.6 and 0.6 thousand hectares. So 6 and 100 times less, respectively. This creates a negative situation. That's why I proposed, and the Science and Technology Administration believes that you can adopt the law as a basis, and I suggested that you prohibit the preservation of useful properties from introducing a moratorium on cuttings, using the term on. and the export of wood abroad for 10 years. Selective, progressive, and solid sections are used solely to provide consumers in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u53	Let me finish. You still have to finish, don't you? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies! It is suggested that all operators should be banned from exporting pilomaterials abroad, allowing them to export exclusively finished products in the form of furniture and products ready for consumption in an order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's the plus-control that's going to be, plus the restoration of those reforestation processes, it's going to have a qualitative effect on our entire quality of life with you, on the disease of the population, and that's going to be immediately population growth, because it's going to reduce mortality from what's going on. Now only taking such decisive steps is necessary, on the one hand, to raise industry and on the other hand to preserve the environment and health of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u55	Please, questions, dear colleagues, are Yuri Anatoliovich available? Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u56	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." In general, everything is right, and the new Forest Code needs to be done, and the most important thing is forest protection and forest protection, which is supposed to be autonomous. But I want to draw your attention. The point is that there are artificial forests, and these artificial forests are planted in a certain area. They're getting old at the same time. And if the age of the forest becomes mature, it has to be cut all the way down, or it will be destroyed because all the trees are the same age. What you're talking about is selective logging, it's only when you're dealing with natural forests. The natural forest needs to be cut selectively, and the artificial forest needs to be cut in the area. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u57	Thank you, Reverend Igor Raphaelovich. But the point is that this law is so preventive: stop just what's going on right now. It can't be incorporated into the Forest Code, you know. It's a law that forbids it. But once again, in article 2, we allow it to be written this way, and I quote, "In-house outlets are intended only for damaged, drying, low-complete and other plants that need immediate cutting by their condition, and plantings that have come out from under the juice." That's how we ask questions. Now, with regard to preventing the destruction of the natural layer of soil that destroys the natural reforestation of the forest. "The milling of wood and cuttings in the mountains shall be carried out selectively and only during the winter." I mean, how do we see a better car in the West? Why we do not see that better legislation exists in Switzerland. It says selectively and exclusively during the winter period. Why in the winter, of course. In order for the soil not to be destroyed. So let's do the same thing for us. We're predicting this in point two. But, in principle, today I see that it was possible to unite these two, and three bills could be combined. But when I gave, there were no others. This was February 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u58	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u59	The roadblocks are confirmed by the Communist faction. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I recall a similar story with the introduction of a moratorium on the construction, reconstruction and implementation of nuclear power plants, such a law, such a decree was adopted in 1990 and it did no harm to our electricity. Or is that fate with a moratorium on the very edges of the forest? I agree with you in the sense that we're cutting out precious breeds, and then there's a little bit of rice, absolutely some shit, a tree that doesn't have that kind of value. It takes 70 to 80 years to wait for the full forest. I would consider it necessary to adopt the first bill, and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u61	I thank you for asking me again, I say all three laws necessary, and all of them have to be piled up anyway, here regardless of the authorship, but as for your comparison with the moratorium on the construction of nuclear power plants, I think it's completely inappropriate, because there were completely different conditions, you remember when you had to consider what it was. You know, our heroes in Ukraine are completely undocumented, without a proper financial basis, they've completed the construction and, God forbid, it's still okay. Because you know, as was the case with them, the national deputy, Andrew Dercach, and the actions of the State Committee, which regulates nuclear energy, are not recognized by a legal court, and all the courts are now legally binding, so the comparison is not entirely correct. And if we pull with the adoption of the kind of laws, they're going to be breathing pretty soon, and they're going to take everything out soon, because it's because the black stuff is going to go there. From here, 100 bracelets are shown, and there's a $100 cubic meter, that's the difference, you know. That's why it's all about profit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u62	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please explain Bill 3672, of which you are the author. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Your opinion is proposed a bill on wood production in the forests of Ukraine under registration number 3672. Relations in this area are regulated by the Ukrainian Forest Code, the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act and the entire range of legal regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The need for the bill has been due to the massive uncontrolled deforestation in the Carpathians over the past ten years, causing significant damage to forest management and the Carpathian region. The uncontrolled use of forest resources leads to a decline in the conservation potential of forests, the destruction of their biodiversity, and a negative impact on their condition. and other natural resources, spreading soil erosion. The decline in the resilience of forest ecosystems to environmental negatives is particularly disturbing. In addition, many unregistered sawmills, mostly working on illegal sawmills, as well as the work of a large number of temporary forest users, who produce wood that violates all established rules and regulations, are of great concern. In the Carpathians, there are illegal, rigid sections of the forest. The size of the forest. exceed the permissible standards, violate the rules of wood cutting and milling, ignore the standards of conservation of natural growth, deforesters are not properly cleaned, under-count the harvested wood, do not undertake artificial reforestation, cut off coastal protection strips and water protection zones, and set up self-contained landfills in the forests, violate the requirements for natural areas in deforested forests for the treatment and control of natural growth. The Ukrainian Supreme Council’s draft Law aims at: firstly to determine the legal principles for the production of wood in the order of special use of forest resources in Ukraine; two to establish rules for the allocation and development of the forest fund and effective control of wood production and its circulation prior to first processing; three to strengthen the responsibility of forest management entities to prevent violations in this area and four to stop uncontrolled deforestation in Ukraine. The general characteristics and basic positions of the project are as follows. The legal regulation of the proposed bill is the order of wood production in the forests of Ukraine. The bill provides for the production of wood exclusively by forest users, or specialised forestry enterprises, and is part of the administration of the Ukrainian State Forestry Committee. The right to produce wood is also granted to forest users, other legal and physical persons, such as farmers with special training provided by the forest fund for concession. In doing so, the forester is given the right to engage other landowners to perform work related to the cutting and cooking of wood. However, responsibility for the improper or proper conduct of the section rests with the main forester. This standard will encourage the forester to properly produce wood, since more severe punishment is anticipated. In view of the fact that temporary foresters are deprived of the right to make their own wood, it can be ordered from the main forester. In doing so, the wood is released exclusively from the collection point, processing or other ingredient in the logging ticket and the whole lot is given a certificate of the harvested wood, which testifies to the rightfulness of its production and accompany it to the first processing. The processing of wood for which there is no such testimony is considered illegal. My bill amends the Forest Code and the Code of Administrative Offences in order to increase the liability of forest operators. The implementation of the proposed bill does not require any additional budget expenditure. In view of the above, I propose a bill on wood production in the forests of Ukraine to be adopted on the basis of this bill in the final edition of the Ukrainian Forest Code. This legal practice is allowed, and that is why I propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u64	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u65	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u66	Yes, please, questions, dear colleagues, to Roman Mikhailovich. Please sign up for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Igor Yukhnovsky "Our Ukraine", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u67	I thank fate that this is the third time I'm out in the woods, because we've studied the forest very carefully. Roman Mikhailovich! All that stuff you said was very clever, but isn't it too much rights for woodchoppers? They have the right to cut, they have the right to let go, they have the right to control themselves. For example, in other countries, in Poland or in other countries, and now in Russia, there is such a rule that local councils, such as district administrations or local councils, still have some control over how the deforestation takes place. In addition, they receive some income from deforestation in their territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u68	Dear Igor Raphaelovich! Right now, this is where there's no control. Practically everything is done without bribe control, and you can simply cut out the vast forest areas in the Carpathian region, no one is involved in replanting the new fox or anything like that. Elite foxes are cut down even in the national forest. Carpathian National Park. My bill is to place the exclusive right of agriculture on the forest farm on the main forest user, the Treeshospee. Instead, the control functions are proposed to switch to another structure, and I would suggest that we define this structure in the final drafting of the final approval of the Ukrainian Forest Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u69	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u70	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Roman Mikhailovich! We've been used to reading the slogan "Less is our wealth" since we were in school. It is indeed our very, very precious wealth. And over the past, especially the 14 years, it's been devastatingly destroyed, and here I agree with you. How would you feel about all the forests, as in the previous Forest Code, being declared state-owned and subordinated to the central authority in the area of forestry, but all the permits for logging to be issued only according to the consent of the Ministry of Ecology, or Minecology? So that control is strict because we declare control, but who does it, we don't tell. There's two of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u71	I got it. I can only say that the concept laid down in this bill is essentially the same as what you just said. So the concept is that the whole of the Ukrainian forest fund should be transferred to the Treeshospa, increased responsibility, and, by the way, I'm proposing a substantial increase in the responsibility that will be borne by forest management in the area in question, even a few times stronger responsibility for what's going on there, in their territory. Now we have a situation where permits are issued by the district governments, virtually not district, district, where the governor makes his own decision to issue a forest ticket. As you can see, this is an open road for bribery, doing whatever you want. In my district of Carpathians, I can tell you how the three hundred - year - old oaks I saw were cut. No one wants to take responsibility for this, the prosecution refuses to open criminal cases because there is no established responsibility. So it seems to me that I have to put an end to this phenomenon, and I still have to put order in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u72	Roman Mikhailovich, thank you. Time's up, thank you. From the Committee on Bill 3590, Majo Vitali Ivanovich, head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. To prepare Valery Ivanovich Samowidski for the other two bills. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u73	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. I think that the integration of these three projects into one view does not apply very much to the first project, since this project refers to 1.7 percent of the exports of the entire forest economy of Ukraine. At the same time, this project has a more ecological meaning, meaning for the conservation of vegetation in our forests in Ukraine. We think this project needs to be taken as a basis. And it only applies to preserving and banning the export of such wood as acacia, berets, cherry, pears, nuts, chestnuts and some others, which are simply very few in Ukraine and that are being produced today by private entrepreneurs, and that part of the forest is not being stored in us in Ukraine. That is why this law can be passed. Economically, it doesn't matter, it doesn't affect any economic indicators, and I think we need to take it as a basis for law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u74	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Valerius Ivanovich Samołowski for Bills 3137 and 3672.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u75	Dear National Deputies! A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster considered, first and foremost, a bill introduced by the People’s Deputy Carmazin, taking into account the environmental significance of the implementation of the sections. The bill submitted for consideration regulates three main points. It is a moratorium on the conduct of the main-use sections, the ban on the implementation of the products by the owners, and the ban on the production of timber by non - state-owned property subjects. Today, in Ukraine, all kinds of scarves are produced about 13 million cubic feet [13 million cu m] of wood. These ranges are determined by coming out of the forest, according to current conservation legislation. They are approved by specially authorized state authorities and the government of Ukraine, in accordance with the requirements of forest legislation. Sergey Ivanovich, the Ministry of Nature, and the Cabinet of Ministers have approved logging in every enterprise. This is evidenced by the annual increase in wood reserves. In recent years, in Ukraine, at an increase of 35 million cubic meters -- I would like to ask you to remember this figure -- is cut down only about 40 percent, whereas in Austria, Hungary, Sweden, Switzerland and other countries, for example, it is 50 percent and 70 percent. And it's the right-wing deputy Carmazin when he said that there are several times more wood in Switzerland. And when our economy, and I believe in it, starts to get up and get off your knees and there's a need for wood, there's a chance to grow twice in the woods. I'll cook the wood. I mean, the ban on the Main Use for 10 years will not keep the forest arrays from the arbitrary edges, because they are the result of human consciousness, their social status, and their legislation violations in the field of production, or direct corruption. The sections themselves can be likened to the actual harvest season. I don't think anyone will want to leave the wheat in the spring of next year, the losses will be obvious and undeniable. Prepared for harvesting the codwood under the draft law must remain root for another 10 years. During this period, it will lose economic value, and the state will lose real money. In the proposed drafts of the bill outside the law, agroforming will be provided to forest areas for use. At the same time, we feel that when we consider the second reading of the draft Forest Codex of Ukraine, we need to support the position of article 4. In view of the above, and taking into account the negative conclusions of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u76	And now for the second time. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u77	The committee reviewed the draft Wood Cooking Act in the forests of Ukraine, introduced by the National MP, Zvaric, who proposes to regulate wood production in the forests of Ukraine in more detail. However, the order of production of wood, as a type of use of forest resources, is generally regulated by the current legislation of Ukraine. The issues addressed by the proposed bill cannot be the subject of a separate legislative act. It should be noted that a number of suggestions have been made in the present draft law that deserve to be taken into account in the adoption of the entire Forest Code. the introduction into forest legislation. A lot of committees agree. We think it's appropriate to take them into account when working on the second reading. At the same time, it is clear that a number of provisions of the draft law cannot be adopted because they make a difference in existing legislation. For example, this is a provision for the granting of a forest fund to concession. I'm not going to go in, I'm just going to say one thing. The concession was offered by the Austrian side in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. And we know what kind of public condemnation came up with the proposal. Scientific institutions, local authorities, the State Committee on Forestry, were raised. We don't have a forest country, and we can't have a concession. I think Mr. Cooker and I will get to that. It is also difficult to accept the proposal to set a 10 - year limit on the forestry fund of Ukraine. It should be only years from now, there can be no acceptable proposal for logging into the Forest Timber Fund, which is produced as a result of the logging - related sections. Our committee sees it as a mistake to propose a bill on forest management to examine plantations to determine the scope of the logging and other work involved in the implementation of these sections. Nor can we agree with the proposal for a bill to withdraw and evaluate the forest fund after its distribution. This situation is not justified by the fact that it will not allow it at the proper time — that is, by January 1st — to provide forest users with a forest fund and to plan for the preparation of a government budget project. In view of the noted and negative conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Office for the Bill, the Committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council that it reject it as unimportant. At the same time, I propose and appeal to you once again, Roman Mikhailovich, that we prepare appropriate proposals together for the inclusion of a new edition of the Forest Code, for which I will be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u78	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Dear national MPs, reports and co-reports on the Bills have been completed. 15 minutes, please, Vladimir Yavorowski, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to speak. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov. We're going for three bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u79	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block, "Our Ukraine". There are many forests in my constituency. And what I want to say right now is that these three bills that our colleagues proposed and brought to the discussion today are, in fact, a very sharp impulse, a very sharp response to the tragedy of the Ukrainian forest. It's not like that. I think that according to the history of the Ukrainian forest, you can read the Ukrainian history of the 20th century, starting with the time that forests were cut down and cut down by ideological instructions to legalize the Banders and end today's adventurers. We understand perfectly, and today every dwarf will explain to you why there are such dramatic floods in Zakartat that no one has ever known before. And every private shepherd tells you that, well, Medvedchuk won our election, put the money into the election, and then he had to throw it back. And he turned it down, and the woods were cut down, and here we have the floods. So far, I've got a completely new rationalistic forestry system, which, let's say, is in the Finns. A settlement for foresters, for logging, is being built in the Samisian center along a radius of about 200 to 300 kilometers [200 to 300 km]. One sector is cut down, planted, transferred to another sector. And by the time they got here, the forest had grown again. Of course, all we have to do is dream and dream about it. The first bill, of course, wants to regulate the export of wood, is really necessary. In my district, it's also the area of the Yavorov region, if you want even the area of the Javorovska forest park, where the most valuable trees are cut down today, and, listen, they are made by pins and rods to Poland, and after 3-4 months from Poland, they are transported to Ukraine by ready furniture, which is worth ten times as much. Of course, this barbarism must be fought. And I think that's the kind of seed in this bill. I'm in all my love for Yuri Carmazin, my colleague, I think that 10 years is too much and, of course, romanticism and perhaps so far away from looking, but today we all seem to have come to the only conclusion: we need all these clever things from every law to bring into our Forest Code and everything will stand in its place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u80	Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists, prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The city of Kirov. Despite the limitations of its own raw materials in Ukraine, export supplies of especially valuable timber in the unprocessed species have increased nearly fivefold in recent years. The special export growth was observed in 2001 and was $183 million and increased by 25 percent in 2002. There is no such thing in any country of the world. Exporting raw materials in unprocessed form, exporting roundwood and sawmills, unfortunately, and not thinking that they are also exporting jobs. It's not a secret that the highest unemployment rate is up to 50 percent, just in Western Ukraine where half the working population has been engaged in logging. And now we're just reaping fruit and we have that the largest number of people in Western Ukraine are on wages all over the world. This is the kind of control in the paws that has halted the development of the country’s woodworking industry. Not a secret that the giants of this industry and the furniture combinations were destroyed today, but there were some 7,000 of them in Ukraine, and those left behind today are only 20 percent of their capacity because there is no raw material. In pursuit of profit, the forest is forgotten its special role in the natural and ecological recovery of the environment. By destroying forests, they have forgotten about erosion processes that are too difficult to stop today, and no one thinks about it, because forests disappear, deforestation is unplanned, but it's more fragile. Much work has been done in the Kirovograd area to protect forest planting, but this is not enough to maintain environmental security for the development of the timber industry. Since 2000, there has been a sharp reduction in the allocation of the State Budget to forest conservation. This year, only 25 percent of the cost of forest farming is covered by the budget. Its own resources, 75 percent of which the forest industry is unable to earn today and survives only by producing large - scale crop material. Every day, problems are added, and they get complicated. But professional workers hope that further development of these laws will contribute to the development of a state-wide program called the Forest of Ukraine, allowing for a decisive fight against arbitrary logging, rational use of the forest fund of Ukraine, and restore the woodworking and furniture industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u82	Yes, thank you. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of our Ukraine, is invited to speak. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u83	John the Rabbit, Ukrainian People's Party, Yushchenka faction. We have three bills. I'm just picturing them as Samowidski, Karmazin and Zvaric. If I were talking about the cook's bill, I'd take it to the Forest Codex, and he'd find a place there. So I'm going to analyze two bills -- Samowolovski and Karmazina. In fact, these two bills regulate one subject. And when it comes to the Karmazin bill, Carmazin proposes to ban the use of headscarfs. He proposes to ban the export of timber abroad and even of sawdust. I think it's an extreme position, but the motives of this extreme position are clear to me, because what happened today in 10 years in our forests, we need to look today at exactly what Karmazin is talking about. Forest damage was also severe: chaotic scars, arbitrary scars, and crippling. See what happens to the woodsmen? Today you can't go to the Carpathians for a mushroom, such a botched forest. So whoever wants to and where they want to go is cut off. Thus, it is possible to set such an extreme question, but it is today unrealistic. What needs to be taken from the Karmazin bill is that it proposes to ban any scars in the forests of the first group of protections, that is, in forests that perform a very valuable water protection, protection, sanitation or health function. And this is also a very difficult situation. And now for the Samofol Bill. In fact, this bill of Self-Floor does not essentially change anything, because the central here is article one, where the definition of terms is given. And it's in the definition of terms that precious and rare species of trees are acacia, birch, cherry, pea, nut, chestnut, strawberry, cherry, apple, fir. But there is neither oak nor jasen nor beech. If someone tells me that the oak, which, for example, the savran oaks hold back the steppe march, is not a valuable breed, I will never agree with that. If we take, for example, jasen, I don't agree with that either, or the noises that are holding our mountains today, our Carpathians. So I believe that these three, at least, must be added to the category of valuables. And secondly, it is forbidden to carry out roundwood for these precious and rare species. So, actually, this is a bill designed to leave everything the way it is, because there are no cherries today, no red ones, go in the oaks. In the trees of Zacarpatta, look, she was gone and today she's gone. So, dear friends, I would suggest that these three bills be sent to our forest code, and that's where they're all put. But I would like to thank the authors for the initiative, especially Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u84	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u85	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I'll tell you what's bothering me, which I agree with. I share the view that there is a need for a moratorium on the export of sawdust and wood abroad. In my view, this is in line with the interests of the people of Ukraine, the interests of the development of the domestic economy and the solution of environmental problems. It is necessary not to export raw materials, semi-manufactured products, but prepared products, which will, of course, ensure the development of our domestic enterprises, and increase the income of our country. With regard to the adoption of legislation on the regulation of the export of sawdust, I would like to say the following. Well, first of all, any regulation will legally be linked to the increase in corruption. That's the first one. Secondly, as I have already said, we will eventually come to the conclusion that this export of wood and sawdust will in itself inhibit the development of domestic reprocessing industries. Well, thirdly, let's look at the structure of our export, which is already in place by this time, and the figures. Exports in 2001-2002 accounted for 52 per cent and in 2003 already 55 per cent of gross domestic product. Those who say that they should rejoice are wicked. This fact is evidence of the narrowing of our internal market, the poor capacity of the Ukrainian population, and its low standard of living. We need exports in some respects, but we need a stable development of the domestic market. Why is universal privatization, price increases, tariffs and export growth ongoing? By the way, in Russia, you know, the problem of privatization of forests is also being raised. Why is all this happening? And what's going on in Russia is often the same thing. The answer is on the surface: the very capitalist focus is not likely to be looting. Chancellor FRG, seeing the success of the USSR, including Soviet Ukraine, said that the reforms that made richer and poorer were criminal and that he had adopted reforms, using the principles that had also been applied in the Soviet Union. The first is social justice, the second is support for domestic production. And the third is to increase the purchasing power of the population. Why we do not have these principles, of course, because we need to create a layer of capitalists, and this can only be done by robbing the population. With regard to these bills, I think we need to support everything that's good in these bills and take into account what concerns all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u86	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u87	Mikola Shershun, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear National Deputies! Allow me to refer to Bill 3690. In the forest fund, stocks of such species as cherry, cherry, nuts, peas, chestnuts are insignificant, and demand for domestic and foreign furniture is increasing and increasing. So it would be right if we decided not to export the wood of the listed species. And I want to make a point, and this is very important, and I would like our colleagues to listen to this, that the introduction of a certificate of origin of wood is really important. And this is confirmed in the Plains region in which. The project starts with its implementation. So I'm asking you to support Bill 3590 in the way it's presented. Regarding Bill 3137, filed by our colleague, Deputy Carmazin. All my life working in the woods, I say that forest farming can't be done without solid edges. This is the only appropriate way to cook wood in ripe pine trees, oaks, birch trees, and other light - loving species that generally occupy three quarters of the area of our forests. Gradual and selective sections of the main use are used by forest guides in the plantation of trees, fir trees, beech trees, and beech trees, which refer only to the precious species and the spread of the Carpathian region. The main use moratorium is a ban on harvesting. I just want to give you one example. If we ban it for 10 years, only the forest guides know that it won't even fit for wood in 10 years. A ban on the export ban on timber and sawmills abroad. It's not about the tattoo that's in both the name and the text of the bill. Pilomaterials are also wood. And the fact that this ban is contrary to the basic standards of the market economy and therefore to the development strategies of the state. Such a restriction paralyses the entire economic sector, which in 2004 made more than half a billion dollars on exports of wood. And I would like to keep in mind that this is a bankruptcy of 3.5 thousand businesses and hundreds of thousands of unemployed. So I think the profile committee has made the right decision to reject this bill. And with regard to the bill of the honourable MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u88	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u89	Regarding the Bill of Honorary MP Zvaric, I would like to emphasize that I understand and share many views of the author. They are included in our draft Forest Codex and its regulations. And that's why I can't see the content of duplicating the same different positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Bills are closed. With motive? Please, Baranowski, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u91	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that we need to be very careful about the area that is being preserved today, which is 100 percent of it in government property. I want to remind you of what happened when we banned wine from drinking and vodka there, when vineyards, gardens were cut off, and what is happening today. For example, the Zitomir region is called the Donbas Forest. I mean, 10 percent of the forest is in the Zitomir region. This is 11,000 jobs. If we ban the cut today, as proposed by individual laws, 8,000 people are unemployed. How can we do that? Today, modern - day enterprises have appeared in the city of Zitomirsk. By the way, and for advertising, the most modern-day good floor floor is made in the Zitomirsk district, in Korstoshev. So, dear friends, I think we need to be very careful about what was proposed in all three of the laws, send them out, and consider them when they were drafted in the Forest Code, that would be
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u92	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich, for you will no longer say what is good in Žitomirski, for everyone will be thrown into the area at that time. Igor Rafailovich, microphone, please, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u93	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine," unfortunately I had no opportunity to speak, because it's already written in the seventh, but I want to make the reasons for the vote: the forests are poorly planted and poorly cared for is the first. There must be improved forest protection. And thirdly, I want everyone to agree that a tax should be imposed on the export of wood, but this duty should be accounted for on a special budget account, so that it goes to the development of forestry and forestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u94	Orzhachovsky with motive, please, and we will vote. Anatoly Orzhachowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u95	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovsky Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. I took the floor on the procedure, for that reason, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that in the future, when we consider a few drafts of some serious problems and every national MP is registered on whether or not there is another bill for the speech. Today, too, many of us have signed up for the talk, but unfortunately, we have worked hard and delivered those who have written one of the bills. So in the long run, it may be necessary to queue our secretariat to avoid a similar situation, for many suggestions, I think, may not be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u96	Thank you. That's a good point. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the members of the people to enter into a sessional evil because we need to make a decision. I'll put the bill to the vote. Bill 3590 is the first to be put to the vote. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. This is a draft Wood Export Regulation Act. [[based]] 3590. Please vote. [[11:39:14]] For 266 Decision taken. The next draft of Law 3137 is the draft Law on Moratorium for the conduct of strict cuts and exports abroad of wood and sawmills. The author is Yuri Karmazin. The committee proposes to reject this bill. But in accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first proposal to adopt the draft Law on Moratoriums for the conduct of strict cuts and exports abroad of wood and sawmills. [[No. 3137]] [[11:40:05]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the bill is now being voted on, registration number 3672, by Roman Zvaric. The committee's proposing a rejection. But first, I'm putting to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Wood Cooking Act in the forests of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3672]] [[11:40:43]] Z-87 How does it not work? I can put it on the vote one more time. Dear colleagues, but for -87. May I have your attention, please? Check the system. Who's to go back to the 3672 bill, the author is Roman Zvaric. And now we're going to check the system at the same time. To get back to the hearing. [[11:41:21]] For-96 Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues! I'll put it to the vote again, but please, dear colleagues, when you press the buttons, hold your hand there and don't run in the ranks. I'm going to vote again. Now let's check again, you don't shout. For the last time, to go back to the consideration of Bill 3672, author Roman Zvaric is a bill on wood cooking in the forests of Ukraine, please. I vote, I work for something. So, please look at the operating system, what do you want? [[11:42:18]] For-141 Thus, honourable colleagues, if there is no objection to the authors and to the committee, we entrust positions in these bills, in Bills 3137, 3672, to take into account in the preparation of the Forest Code for second reading, so that valuable work is not lost. Is there no objection? Thank you, then. A draft law on the identification and registration of animals and on the labelling of animal products is being published for consideration. Dear colleagues! We have two projects here: 4554, 4554-1, please, Katerina Timofievna Vashchuk, please, and prepare Hennady Borisovich, there are two here, but there is no first report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill aims to improve the situation in the production system, the implementation of animal origin products, the prevention of infringements of non - quality production, the preservation of public health, and the control of tribal affairs in Ukraine. The bill consists of six chapters, you've seen it. He predicts that the system of public administrations in the field of identification, registration, labelling of animal products is made up of the central executive body of agrarian policy, which ensures the implementation of state policy in this area, and its organs in places. This is actually a fundamental difference with other laws. There is no clear identification of which body, or marking, each animal is assigned a suitable number, it is entered into a public register, and the animal lives with this number until it is used for food. And there's a card that contains its origins, its breed, its quality, or it's not sick. This ensures that food will be more controlled. But it's important for selection because there's only one national register of animals. And you can clearly register, control tribal affairs in every household. In addition to the registration of animals, our bill also provides for the registration of the farms involved. That is, agriculture and the individual producer of animal products also have a suitable registration card or passport. They are approved as a farm that meets the requirements of the tribal law in Ukraine. The normative and methodological labelling of animal products is also carried out by specially authorized central executive bodies in the field of health care, consumer protection, standardization, veterinary medicine, i.e. all those who are already involved in the control of the quality of animal products. There is currently no legal instrument in Ukraine that defines all the basic principles in the complex, and the purpose of the identification and registration of animals. That's the law that makes it possible. This work is already under way in Ukraine, according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, the budget is budgeted, and many households have already done this work. In fact, the adoption of this law will allow us to obtain operational and, above all, reliable information about the animal, its breed, its linear origin, its location, its health, and later the quality of the animal’s condition and quality. So on behalf of the author of this bill, I would like to ask that both bills be supported as they are in the main part they repeat each other because they were prepared on the basis of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's just our clearer definition of which administrations are implementing this law, and the second, it's more consistent with European legislation. Animals that will be imported from Europe and entered into the Single World Register will already repeat their number in Ukraine and live with it, and our animals that will be sold abroad will likewise enter the world register and live with this number. So these two laws can complement each other, and for the second reading we can prepare a good law that will serve well, practically, to improve tribal affairs and to control quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u98	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Please, three minutes. Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u99	Dear Catherine Timofievna, a bill that is doubtless necessary, will have to be accepted. But at the same time, I am interested in the question of what funding is going to be like the financial side of this bill. That's the first one. And the second. What will be the control, what responsibility, what sanctions for the implementation of this law? To make sure that he does not become a paper law, a declarant, but that he actually acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u100	Thank you for asking. This law is in fact based on and deepens the Law on Tribal Affairs in Ukraine. It is funded by an article in the State Budget, which is dedicated to the tribal selection work in animal production. In fact, this work has already begun in Ukraine. And according to this law, of course, there is a responsibility for the authenticity of information about the origins of animals, the conformity of all those tribal testimonies that appear on the animal in question. And their observance will be guaranteed by the basic law: tribal affairs in animalry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u101	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u103	Please, Matthew Valentina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u104	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. Dear Catherine Timofievna! Well, the project states that virtually all animals will be registered and identified, i.e. all animals are subject to, more faithfully, all animals found or divorced in all of Ukraine. Thus, Catherine Timofievna, and each, and every, then the peasant family, will have to register and identify, that is to say keep her account. [[That's a question.]] Well, it's all about paying for it and stuff. Chi. Do you think such offers will not be burdensome enough for peasants?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u105	Thank you for asking. That's a very useful question. No, it's not. Because the identification is done by the authorities that answer. The executive authorities that are responsible for the selection and these funds are provided in our budget right in the article on tribal work. The peasant family will not spend any extra money. The only thing she will know is that her animal is registered. Yeah. No, especially with regard to animals that are of a kind that are. meet all the standards of tribal legislation. This is not necessarily every chicken and goose — the kind that a person wants to implement. It's like an animal that can have high-grade supplements. Of course, every chicken and every goose will not register, but the cow and the calf so, because in their implementation a person can receive an allowance for the high quality, the class of the animal and each person will be interested. And one more thing. It will be able to reproduce this animal in the future so that it does not just use bulls on the street, sorry, but only improvers who will be able to get a calf with higher quality productive than Mom. I mean, it's the only system actually called for the whole tribal work to be put on a normal state level, not by taking some animal somewhere today, they say it's going to be well fed, and it doesn't actually match those qualities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u106	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u107	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Catherine Timothy! Please tell me that to date any veterinarian in any normal economy has all the documents accompanying the origin, disease, vaccination and so on. The register is money, whoever says it is extra costs. And everyone understands that very well today. These are additional structures. Europe has not yet come to this. We're back in front of the planet. I ask a specific question: "Is it easier to get this money, that we don't know how to be with the private sector today, here's the question, and the public sector: to send the leukemia herd out, to put order in the head, to resuscitate these nobles that are being created today, would it not be easier to do so?" When we have a normal flock, then we can talk about each barrel having a passport: origin, what it is and how it is, what it is. But when we suffer from a shortage of both milk and meat today, I think it's too early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u108	Thank you. It's a very specific question, but it's all the other way around. If we do not make such a register, we will never give proper order in tribal matters. Why? I'll explain now. The whole of Europe has been working on this for a long time, and we have been witnesses to the meatcombins, to the meatcombination, to the health of the animal. For example, the animal was killed only when there is a meatcombinate’s help, it is removed from the register, and the conclusions you say are confirmed: Was it really healthy, or was she ill with leukosis, tuberculosis, or other diseases? It's not the kind of money that we think is just a pinch on the ear, the cards that are actually there. The only thing is that this register is consistent with all European legislation. Keep going. That livestock that we're bringing from abroad, and the one that we're implementing abroad, will be in the only world register. This, on the other hand, will contribute to the restoration of the factory tribe on a proper basis and to the control of each animal. Everything else you see didn't give you that opportunity. It's a world practice, a world experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u109	Thank you. From the Committee, Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Hennady Borisovich Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, using the slogans of the Soviet Union, you can say, "You're giving your passport to the whole country!" In principle, the question is whether it is time to passport, identify not only humans, but also animals, both agricultural and general. The question, I repeat, is this why the Committee, when considering these two bills at the time of the difference in registration for about nine months, also raises the question: Why are the bills registered as, under one issue in fact? Although there should be, according to the rules, a two-week difference in registration. It's a question to the secretariat again, but essentially. In fact, the first bill was registered 4554, then 4554-1. In fact, the name is essentially similar, given that the more possible meaningful part is better highlighted in one direction in the first bill, in the other direction in the second bill. Of course, there were experts working here from the point of view of Minsilgos. I would like to pay attention to just one thing: we focused on the discussion, with Catherine Timothy on tribal farming, and I would like to focus on whether we want it or not, but in the country and in our partners with which we work on meat, there is a question, not just quantity, but quality. And here we want to see if we want to understand that quality costs more. Free meat is the first, second, third category, and higher category. So, of course, there should be motivation not only for those officials who give grants, but motivation should be for normal entrepreneurs who do business in one area or another. That's the first one. The other one. Many, unfortunately, are examples of small private carnivores starting not to dispose of their waste but simply to bury themselves in landings near villages, near cities. Questions related to the country’s epidemiological situation continue to arise. The question is, therefore, the question is that the drafters believe that there is a duplication of the European strategy. But in the European, by the way, the European Parliament and the EU regulation of 2000 is called the introduction of a system of identification, registration of cattle and trade marks for beef and beef products, so to speak. So the point is that, honorable ones, there should be a quality of production. And quality can't be done in a different way than introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u111	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u112	I mean, of course, quality costs money. Who will pay for this? The budget, as proposed in one of the bills, whether it should be at the expense of the producers, is a question. And my colleagues rightly asked the question that this would again burden manufacturers or specific private farmers. I wouldn't want to do that. But again, if there are people who are willing to buy higher quality products at a higher price, it will be compensated. Although I repeat, it is desirable to take the basis and not go further, to work with the ministries, with the interested parties, and to get to the optimal model of the bill. So the committee's proposal is to support both the first and the second options and work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u113	Any questions? Please sign up. Three minutes. Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u114	Dear Gennady Borisovich! I'm one of those people who shares a position that we need to get this thing started. And it's probably heavy, and it needs time, and it needs money, and it's trouble. But in the end it will lead to control, quality control of the quality of the product. And the very right moment, about the stimulus of the question I have, really, if there's a higher quality of production, you have to pay a higher price. And will we always have a match between product quality growth and price growth or will we not somehow benefit from this in order to increase prices and quality not entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u115	Thank you for asking. We certainly have to be realistic, we're legislators -- we're contractors. There are executive powers and quite a number of different branches of power. Very often, our good ideas have been poorly implemented. So I'm hoping that in further parliamentary control over various kinds of bills, including, and this will be more severe, it's up to you and me personally and all the other 450 deputies sitting in the room. Today to predict, I'm optimistic, so I'm saying maybe we'll control it, but as it's going to be the mechanism, we're going to write it down for the second reading. Because today, unfortunately, as in many other bills, we see that the bill is not quite direct enough, and these are the failings of the last drafts, of late times. We give very much will to the Cabinet of Ministers, to other units of executive power. But perhaps we should go to the coalition parliament, the coalition government, and trust in some way. So there's definitely going to be a lot of control behind the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u116	Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u118	Matthew Valentina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u119	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. Dear Gennady Borisovich! The project does not specifically define the specific features of the agency’s identification and registration of animals. And the second. How, though, can this be resolved? And how will animal substitutions be established and those responsible be held accountable? Still, it is necessary to make sure that there is no confusion. And other things. How do you see that the project indicates that it will take effect when it was adopted on January 1, 2005, when it cannot be regulated by the Budget Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. I'll start with the last one. Certainly not on January 1, 2005. Let God allow us to work on it by 2006. Of course, the quality of most of the bills in the first reading does not correspond to what most of the public organizations would like to see, and the legislators already have an idea in the bill. So this is definitely the first reading, this is the collection of information, this is the accumulation and sharing of experience. So there will be consultations with both the European Parliamentary structures and our neighbours. We don't want to break wood here. It's better to write it out, read it pretty hard, and only then make a decision. So we have no desire to accept it as soon as possible. But the public debate must take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's take 15 minutes to discuss and make a decision, and then we'll take this 15-minute break. Is there any objection? Yeah, then 15 minutes. Mironenko. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u122	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. I believe that these bills should be supported and, of course, should take into account the comments of the Scientific and Expert Office, which indicates that there are already laws and other regulations, such as the order of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy No. 342, which may have to be done in some way. Well, I think that's the problem. And it is encouraging to say from this rostrum that God lets us adopt this bill by 2006. But if you look deeper, let's think about it. Yes, such laws are necessary, but perhaps we need to address agriculture in principle and raise directly and openly those issues that, for some reason, are not always on the surface, but are hidden even by those who seem to spend their entire lives giving their lives to agriculture and constantly talking from this rostrum about the need to support agriculture, to develop agriculture. Let us finally focus on what is happening in the country, and the facts are likely to lead us to do what we have to do to make agriculture develop. While all farms produced 66.2 per cent of livestock production in 1990, only 26.5 per cent in 2003. A huge number of milk factories, meatcombinates, have been deconstructed. An intermediary who was said to benefit, i.e. a capitalist, let's say, a capitalist who should be created in agriculture and benefit, in my view, mainly benefits, and the people say that only harm is done because he increases the price of agricultural products enormously. On the other hand, what are we being shown, and what is being done in industry? In industry, too, the capitalist, in fact, monopolized industrial problems and price-setting. And as a result, the price of energy is going up enormously. There's a terrible price increase. And when we look at the rising prices of the same milk and so on and the rising prices of the same alcoholic beverages, we can rejoice: thank God, we already have a better water trend in the country, let the people sing. But it's all from a great deal of trouble! From the fact that the course is wrong. What should we do? In our view, the view of the Company's faction is first: look what put agriculture on the blades in general. Banking policy, deprivation of working capital. As a result, livestock production is destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u123	Carmazine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear national MPs, honourable voters, I would like first of all to ask that voters not fall into obscenities from what they have heard today. Why, so if we're talking about the bills that we've just been considering, and we're talking about animals that have to identify and register, we're talking about big cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, horses, birds, fish, animals, rabbits, bees and silkworms, then I want to understand how you're going to identify them, that bee where you put the number. Ladies and gentlemen, we're on our way to a frostbite! So I ask our Ukrainian people to calm down. It's just that some of the legislators have gone a little overboard. And that's why they mixed everything up. But they basically have a good idea, and that's the idea that we have to somehow implement budget support and budget support properly. But I can't understand why a new law is needed when there's a great law: "The Tribal Affairs of Animalry." There we introduce two additional articles of everything, honourable drafters of the bill, two additional articles in the Law on Tribal Affairs in Animals. And we clearly say that it's animalry, not bees, not rabbits, not some chicken, not something else that people keep to themselves. People are good! Let's be systematic. I urge you to do this for how many years, and there is no movement yet to the system. Everyone wants to do something separate. If I were to talk about what evil to choose, of course I would change that law. If I were to talk about what to choose, I would choose a project. The Vascuk, Tereshuk, Jeremiev, Yukhnowsky bill is based on the fact that it is less risky for the people of Ukraine in the first reading, and then would be thoroughly further elaborated in the final version, because under another law, article 11 foresees that the subject of farming, namely, loving farming, dear grandmother, dear grandfather, who lives today and holds his pigs, chickens and goats, should provide information about farming, keep an account of the identification animals, provide information about these animals for registration, obtain documents on the animal set, submit and so on. The identification of the animals is based on the order of the host subject. [[Article 7]] So, what, we're gonna make life easier for these people? We'll make it worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u125	Yes, Solomon refers the word to Orzhachov. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u126	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. From the beginning, I'm going to say that the Communist faction is proposing a bill number 4554 to take as a basis for further work on the committee, taking into account Bill No 4554/1, and if I say so myself, here's what I think about it. I understand the State’s desire to have a clear calculation of the state of animal headship, especially perhaps not in collective farms that are no longer in existence, but in the private sector, for today the state is looking for a profit for itself. What positive results can we receive? I'll say that maybe these bills in the way they're proposed, they can be accepted for good work for internal affairs, because it's easier for them to look for those who are said to have taken animals into their hands in their respective populations, as well as to have statistics in order to then here in this opposition room to draw nice figures as we grow agricultural production. Next. I am particularly concerned about whether these bills play a positive role for people, whether they will have an increase in agricultural production or not. I don't think they're going to have the desire that the legislator wants and that's good for people. That's what's important. With the adoption of these bills, we may lose our human interest in keeping cows of other animals. If that is not the case, we will virtually cut off what is now slowly beginning to regenerate, and we can bring about the fear that was when we started counting both trees and everything else in the field of vegetation. So I think that the proposed conclusions by the Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee are right to put the relevant drafts into practice, and time will show whether we are right or wrong. If we're not clear on how to count statistics or raise production, and we're going to stand in the position of the first, really, raising the animal sector we don't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u127	Baranovsky. Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u128	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear National Deputies! True, the law states that animals are subject to identification, whether divorced or living properly, so to speak, in the territory of Ukraine. But look what's written down, I'd like to support my colleague Karmazin, except that identification will have to be fish and silkworms and everything else, although where anyone says it's just big cattle, but it's not written in the Law, and tomorrow the one who's going to run the I.D., he'll come in the yard to his uncle and ask him to count the bees and identify them, we know how our officials can work it. But what the Laws provide is that they will be entered into the national register, for each animal's passport, a veterinary card, an individual register for each animal, in every farm. Well, it's all but a photograph of this animal. Please tell me, who can do all this? And who needs all this when it comes to talking about what this tribal farm is going to be, I agree. In tribal farms this should be, but the Laws do not say that it is tribal, the Law provides for the identification of all the animals that are in Ukraine. Now another person who calculated the costs that we know we can't complete population passporting yet. Who has calculated the cost of making these different forms, who will do all this? What are some of the large states that need to be adequately located in all areas? Who's going to get to that house, that village, or do you think they're going to come up with something to identify the animal? Tomorrow, no bull or pig will be taken to his uncle's house until he can present the appropriate documents, and where can he get them? And it's going to become an appropriate speculation again, and I don't see the benefits of the relevant laws anymore. When we say that the cow will be identified, but the calf is also born into the uncle in the spring of the cow, he held it either until the fall or the spring and gave it up for meat. Over the course of the year: to establish when she gave birth, to keep all the documentation then disappeared, and as this is documented again, it's just not real. I've worked for eight years as Head of the College, I know what tribal affairs are, I know these things, and I'm just sorry, I don't know what to call it, what we're going to accept today. To my profound, profound belief, my honourable friends, that here today in these bills is about identifying animals, but perhaps the equipment purchased is someone's keen desire to produce on these forms, passports there are different, everything else. And that's where we have the right business. I can't see any other benefit from this, so to my profound belief that, yes, there should be a certain identification of animal production. That is why we must do so, but this step, in my view, is not faithful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u129	Please, Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u130	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies. Christian-liberal Party of Ukraine, Chernovetski. I want to say that of all the animal registration bills, only one Mrs. Vasuk deserves attention because he is less humane. And I'll tell you what it's for. Well, in my opinion, we could talk about something else today. But in principle, it is the ideology of the agrarian party and it is right that we put this law to the vote. Because I'll tell you that if, as one argument, that if we were to at least assign codes to all the cows and pigs that are in the country right now, we saw that half of them are in the President's Administration, which is in the wreckage of his office, which is called the Dusa. When this soul was created, was there another head of this Dusi, decent, by the way, a man, and asked him, well, for the President's sake, so many cows and so many pigs? The whole area under Kiev was taken into custody. So at least we know what he's doing to them. That's what those bastards from the President's Office are eating, and they're fat on the blood of the people, and nothing good is happening there anymore. And, of course, there is no way to get to the dogs and cats that remain the only hope of our pensioners on whom we should focus. And at least we have to identify those who need help in some way and mainly eliminate the benefits and privileges that prevent me from eliminating the communists in this area on a bad industrial committee and not actively supporting me. In order for these benefits and privileges to go to unhappy people who have a small pension and wages, and to be able to grow and buy cows for themselves, at least pork and beef. That's good. This is for starters. And in principle, of course, some of the bills go to the crazy ones, and Carmazin was right about the idea of what to put on each bee. The bill proposed by the Agrarian Party must therefore be supported as a basis for adoption and further elaborated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u131	Thank you. But Leonide Mikhailovich, the Communists voted in favour of depriving them of privileges, just because the bill did not get the required number of votes. Please, on the basis of the vote, black man, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! There is a problem of budget support for tribal affairs that needs to be addressed, that there is a problem of improving the quality of produce and that needs to be addressed, that there is a problem of operational and reliable information about animals, and that needs to be addressed. So I understand the noble intentions of the authors who proposed this bill, but I don't think they were able to do everything right. So I think it would be possible to vote again, first, if we vote first, then there's still much more to be done in the process of preparing for second reading, and first of all, the issue of identification needs to be clearly defined, this should be animalry and all, we need to define more clearly the issue of incentives and supplements for higher quality production needs to be addressed in order to avoid speculation, and we need to address the issue of avoiding bureaucraticization of this process. If these questions are clearly written and resolved, then the bill can be adopted. But I'm against even moving away from him as unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. The only thing we've been talking about lately is about gender policy, and as we can see, in these laws about cows and calves, there's no mention of bulls at all. It's a little unfair. Yes, please, a minute is the closing word of Catherine Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, thank you very much for all the comments made in the two bills. They will, of course, be counted. And I would like to point out once again that not every animal in the farm will be identified by the person growing it for himself. And there's no problem with introducing the law. Who read our bill, it says that chapter three will generally be introduced three years later gradually when all conditions of identification are met. For example, there will be questions regarding chickens. These are just large birds, which are tribal, selection centers. The same is true of all small animals. That's why there's no such fear. We're going to write these rules more clearly, but today we're going to vote for both of these bills as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u135	Yes, the discussion is over. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Identification and Registration of Animals and the Marking of the Product of Animal Origin. Registration number 4554, author of the bill, Komar Mikola Stepanovic. [[B in m in s a l in]] What about the "Race" system, I don't understand? Vote. [[12:26:34]] For-34 No decision taken. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on the identification and registration of animals and the labelling of animal products, registration number 4454-1, author of the Bill Vaszczuk Catherine Timofievna. Please vote. [[12:27:08]] For 128 There's an offer, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go this way: send both bills for re-reading with a proposal, ask the authors of these bills to submit a single, one general bill. After re-reading. Well, that's their business, they'll make a deal, so to speak. I think the authors of both bills are going to make the only whole project, and then he's going to have a chance. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u136	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Since the first reading dealt with the concept, the hall was clearly in favour of the Vasuk bill because the first bill stated that all animals found, divorced or kept, were subject to identification. And that's, you know, very close to the frost, because people in pre-heart condition are listening to the receivers right now. That's why the MPs acted that way. But for the re-first reading if you put the Vasuk bill, then taking into account the normal positions of others it will be accepted now, Adam Ivanovich, I am absolutely convinced because you will have to divide the budget, you will have to, and you will only have to divide the identified animals, only there you can give. I mean, the Budget Act works if we don't make any decisions right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u137	Well, if you don't agree to my offer, then we'll follow the Rules. I'm betting on re-reading the bill at number 4554. [[12:29:15]] For-31 It's about re-reading the bill number 4554-1. Author of Vasuk. Please vote. [[12:29:42]] For-167 Now let's still vote on the proposal that I'm talking about: that we're both sending both bills for re-reading, and we're giving the bill's authors the authority to prepare it as a single bill. Please vote for that. [[12:30:18]] For-170. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 66, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 9, People's Agrarian Party - 26, Social Democrats - 12, "One Ukraine" - 16, Socialists - 3, Block Timoshenko - 0, NDP, Heavy Ukraine - 5, Alliance - 7, Democratic Initiatives - 7, Center - 4, Post-faction - 15. Dear colleagues, therefore, have rejected the bill. But we're starting a new session in a week. There would still be no consideration earlier, so the project authors have the right to submit them again to the next session, we'll look at them, but it's desirable that they agree and make one project. There's a break to 13 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u138	Invite the deputies to the session room. A draft Law on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels is being published for consideration. Please, who will report this bill? A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Do we have a next discussion with the President's proposals? Invite the national deputies to the session room. Please, come on, Solomatin Yuri Petrovich from the committee. And before that, Yuri Petrovich, I'll make an announcement. There are two factions -- "Our Ukraine" and "BUT" -- they're asking to announce a recess and convene meetings of the Conciliation Council. So let's think about it this way. We will continue to work, and at 1:30 a.m., we will gather the Conciliation Council. You'll tell me about it. At 1:30 p.m. in the head's office. Do you have a deal? No, it's 1:30. I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to gather in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council. And now we're back to work. Please, Hennady Borisovich, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u139	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, who are sadly less and less after lunch! A bill on the development and consumption of biological fuels submitted by National Deputy Kaletnik Our committee considered this bill and concluded that most of its provisions could be included in an alternative fuels bill. On a large scale, the relevance of this issue does not raise any doubt, there are only some wishes, and we will, literally, today form them in the form of a request to the Ministry of Agriculture to provide information on how that money was spent in the State Budget last year for the development of biological water. It's about raps, raps, and biofuel production. I repeat that for the moment there is a bill on alternative types of liquid and gas fuel, but unfortunately it doesn't work to the full, so these sections on biofuel development, on the development of natural gas as a type of fuel, they will be as soon as possible, if the bill's author agrees and refines, I hope that we'll reject this bill, and put, as a unit, into an alternative fuel bill, I think it'll be normal and it'll be useful for all of us. There are quite a number of positions that have been noted by the Scientific and Experimental Department of the Supreme Council, there is a wish from the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask you to correct, and the committee voted in favour of this, to send for further work and submission for the re-reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u140	The question seems to be before the committee’s head. Please sign up, three minutes. On the board. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Sergei Doroguntsov will be next to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u141	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear colleagues! I really support the committee's opinion that this bill should be sent for further work, because I want to ask the rapporteur. The point, to me personally, of this bill is to introduce another tax. That's right, isn't it? And is this a tax to be imposed at all? Well, I wouldn't look at this bill as creating another money collection chain in Ukraine, it's a bill first of all, I do, I hope, that I understood the idea of the author of Mr. Kaletnik's bill, it's about the development of biofuels. Biofuel is a product that's made out of, for example, raps. Our neighbours, who are already in the EU: Poland, the Czech Republic, have gone quite far in this direction, I think we have the opportunity to catch up, chase them, taking into account our historical possibilities. I repeat, here for two years the Ministry of Agriculture has been working in this direction, unfortunately, we don't have all the information from them, how effectively they're doing this program. So I repeat: I hope that this is not a new tax, and this is really the idea of creating alternative, cheaper, cleaner fuels.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u142	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u143	Dear reporter, I would like to ask you, because this is about alternative fuels, how do competitors view this fuel, or traditional fuels? This is the first, and second, how do you think, in the middle of this century, what could be the drinking weight of these fuels in the overall fuel balance of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u144	Thank you. Well, I think that given the relatively rare and not too powerful steps on the part of people who lobbied the development of alternative fuels, traditional fuel manufacturers are still sleeping. And that's good, so I'm going to propose to all my colleagues to unite and so quietly, quietly attack traditional fuel manufacturers, talk about oil producers, and put as soon as possible before the fact that there are European Union strategies, which, in particular, suggests 10-15 to get to the level of use in the overall energy balance of up to 20-25 percent of the total mass. It's supposed to be an alternative kind of fuel. We have pretty good traditions, it's diversification of the agricultural direction again. I think a very good start made by natural gas as a type of fuel is a cheaper, more environmentally friendly type of fuel. So biofuels that include bioethanol, biodiesel, biogas, hydrogen, natural gas, other directions. They must become at least 10-15 percent of the traditional fuels. Today, unfortunately, we can't even say that we've become more alternative. This is a negative assessment for both you and me, and certainly for the government. It's in our hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u145	Turmanov, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u146	I'd like to give Bronnnikov Valery Constantinovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u147	Please, Bronnikov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u148	Dear Gennady Borisovich, of course, your decision by your committee to take the law into account in the overall programme for the development of renewable alternative sources of electricity. I would ask you to bear in mind that Europe has seriously addressed alternative sources when their budget has become incomparable to our budget. These are all expensive sources, they must be Ukraine's pocket money, so that we don't lose sight of ourselves by making premature European commitments to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u149	Thank you. I think we'll take this proposal into account. The only thing I want to remind you is that we, like most countries in Europe, are an energy-dependent country. And on a large scale, whether we depend on oil suppliers, or whether we depend on producers of domestic agricultural products, especially those that will then be processed in our manufacturing enterprises. And I think it's a better addiction than what we have today. Although, of course, we have to say that alternative fuels are a pretty expensive thing in the first place. But the prospect is far greater than what we have today. So either put your hands down and use that network of gas stations that are in Ukraine today, or create an alternative and for the middle business, these would be new jobs, and certainly for our manufacturers. I repeat, I'm talking about cost, let me do an example. Natural gas, which now has 90 nearly a filling in Ukraine, is sold by 1 bracelet per liter. Traditional types of fuel are sold by 40, 2 bracelets by 60 copies. This is evidence that some alternative fuels are more competitive today than conventional fuels. So by developing natural gas, by developing biofuels, we have a good chance to make sure that, as on the shelves of our supermarkets today, there is a choice of products for less demanding, more demanding, and in the future we have to create the conditions under which each buyer of a resource should buy one or the other, or some other kind of alternative or traditional product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u150	Yes, thank you. Gennady Borisovich, time is up, please sit down. Do we need to discuss this bill? We've got six national deputies, let's have a discussion for 12 minutes. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski is taking the floor. Mironenko, please, Victor Mironenko, Communist faction, prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u151	5 Mironenko constituency faction of the Company of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, distinguished people's deputies! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill, it can and must benefit our economy, our people. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Explanatory Note indicates that the widespread use of biofuels in Ukraine ensures the implementation of the mechanisms ratified in Ukraine by the Kyoto Protocol, the attitude of CO-2 in the atmosphere, also a noble focus, and a good focus. But let's put our legs on. That's the first one. Let us be progmatists, let us not rush to carry out those thoughts that cast very evil or Western politicians, in particular the United States of America, the most harmful in this regard, is not involved. And we are all quick to ratify and not think that, in this case, can we be used without prejudice to the development of the economy? That's what I said only in the sense that we should not be actively supporting everything that comes our way. With regard to the bill, I believe that it must be supported and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u152	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, is invited to speak. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u153	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National MPs, the project is proposed, I have an observation in shape, but the content of it is absolutely correct. We're even late to start this kind of fuel. Because of what? Because right now we could solve a few of the problems that are very important to the country. First, we could decide to stimulate the producers of biological fuels, and we could immediately reduce the import dependency of Ukraine on which they say. Today you depend solely on your neighbors for energy. That's absolutely not true. I think a new government is coming, and he has to be interested in that. This is a reduction in the negative impact on the environment, because it's a completely different result from burning gasoline and burning biogas or hydrogen or bioethanol. So I think, besides everything else, we have the benefits of creating new jobs, increasing tax revenue, improving the work of the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex. And we know where the village is now. Now, as far as I'm concerned, I'm totally in favour of adopting this bill. At the same time, there are many comments before this bill. Well, first of all, we have a law on alternative types of liquid and gas fuel. Can biofuels be applied to liquids or gases? Yes, we can refer both to each other, depending on how it is prepared. And I think we need to make changes to existing laws and go this way. I strongly advise everyone, let's see, before making a new law, maybe you can do it in the old one. Now it is absolutely right to propose that both producers and those who are going to eat this product be stimulated. But it is proposed to be introduced on January 1, 2005, that is, for 20 days now, a special national assembly — 0.5 percent of the costs of oil production and biofuels by manufacturers. So the new tax is proposed. However, changes to the tax law must be made, according to which the mechanism. other laws cannot be established. There are many declarative norms in this law, but in the first reading, in view of what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u154	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u155	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the situation is very clear with the bill. We need to send him to work. But I would like you and I to draw a circle of tasks that are ahead of Ukraine as a nation for the near future. Humanity has gone through the path of energy supply through wood, peat, coal, oil and gas, nuclear energy, and it's a very simple question: "What's next?" And that's what things like hydropower -- they're important -- and wind energy, and solar energy. And they are an integral part of providing our energy needs, but they do not allow us to expect that in the near future we will radically address Ukraine's energy security and energy security. There is also a new trend that is being addressed by scientists in the leading countries of the world. This is directly related to hydrogen energy. And now new types of reactors are being developed, and there's a fierce fight between Japan and Europe so that the first such test reactor can be built either in Japan or in Europe, but for money already in the world community. So I'd like to say that. This is very good, and an example can be given in Brazil, as it is used there for energy supply. And it's also a very good carbon gas, but it's just a small alternative, it's not an alternative to the whole energy supply using oil, gas, coal, and nuclear energy. So I'd like to have a very simple and clear idea: this is just a single case where we can provide these kinds of energy or some small business enterprise, or some particular region or region, but this is not an alternative to all of Ukraine. And this is where I want to end up, but I want to think about another direction. There were a lot of calls during the election campaign from one of the presidential candidates in Ukraine that Ukraine would be filled with energy using helium-aerobic power plants. I have studied the matter very carefully. Whether it's a revolution or another scientific and political hoax, it's still time to figure it out. But it's not a direction that could provide us. So I agree with the proposal that this bill should be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u156	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Of course, the use of any fuel depends on the degree to which the manufacturing system is ready to use it. So from the point of view of diesel fuel, from the point of view of diesel-fuel engines, the use of rapeseed oil is the closest to realisation. In principle, small trailers are needed for diesel engines to be able to use rapeseed oil as fuel. In addition, it is estimated that from a calorie point of view, 1 hectare of grill, a 16 - centurion - acre [16 ha] rape fir, provides energy of 10 hectares [10 ha] of grill. So the transfer of rapeseed oil as fuel for diesel engines is absolutely real at the moment, and Germany has gone very far for this. In addition, there are some land areas in Ukraine, especially Western regions, which have not very fertile black lands, but where there is a very good increase in the yield of this crop, where the yield of this culture can be brought to order by 40 centrifuges per hectare, have an enormous potential for use in renewable energy. Yet, there are good intentions and the same law that will fail. In the law, we must provide benefits for those who sow rape and collect rape. We have to anticipate benefits for those mechanical and machine-building enterprises that release diesel - powered trailers. We have to anticipate benefits for those who use diesel engines that work on rapeseed oil. We have to do the best we can to stimulate this work. Only then will it go and it is very promising for Ukraine, and from this point of view must the law be adopted in the first reading in order to produce it properly in the second reading. The second direction is alcohol. Ukraine is a grain state. Ukraine can produce an enormous amount of alcohol. Not only is it to completely replace the tetraethyl lead, which goes into the gasoline supplement to increase the octane number, but it's to replace the 100 percent alcohol supplement to make our petrol - powered engines green. This should also be done very quickly, and some benefits should be given to those who do. And in the end, the third type of energy is developing in highly developed countries -- fuel cells that work on gas. Power plants are being created that operate on those fuel cells. These three directions are central to Ukraine. And from this point of view, I propose to the honourable Supreme Council to uphold the law in the first reading with a view to proving in the second reading the way that deputies require. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u158	For reasons, please, Vladimir Cherniak. Turn on the microphone. And then Mother. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! I think we might have the only motive to vote for this bill. It's an extremely important and promising direction for the realization of renewable biological raw materials, biological fuels, and there can be no doubt about it, and Ukraine has a lot of all the raw materials to do so, has perspectives, has a scientific base, has a technological base, doesn't just have a legislative basis to regulate it legislatively, to organize this direction for the implementation of a very important biological fuel. So, I think we have all the necessary and sufficient reasons to vote for this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u160	National MP, Mother. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u161	I am surprised that we, the legislators, are far from doing what is done in Ukraine. Today, many experimental institutions are already working in Ukraine. I can give an example of this: today, the dry cleaners are being used by Sukhina’s author, who is processing almost all these dirts that Kyiv throws away when he gets the gas he needs. There are dozens of similar facilities developed in Ukraine. And I don't think today's talk about whether it's biofuelly necessary, whether it's expensive or inexpensive, makes no sense. Today, we need to make the way that we work, and at least take advantage of what is being accomplished in Ukraine today. I believe that this law is necessary at least to give impetus to the development of science and to the achievements that are already in Ukraine, not to mention that we are far behind Europe on these issues today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels has been completed. I am voting on the first proposal to adopt the draft Law on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels. [[Registration number 4444]] Please vote. [[13:28:09]] For 105 The decision is not taken. It is up to the vote to propose to the committee to re-read the draft Ukrainian Law on the Development of Production and Consumption of Biological Fuels. [[Registration number 4444]] Please vote. [[13:28:41]] For 221 The bill was rejected. I can place it on your request. Who wants to go back to the bill, registration number 4444, on the development of production and consumption of biological fuels? [[13:29:16]] For 214 The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law-making. We agreed that the Supreme Council would work, sit down, and we would hold a meeting. So if 10 people go, it doesn't affect the veto, I think. Let us now consider the Law of Ukraine. The amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized is being considered, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 1.10.2004, registration number 5043-4. Invite the people's deputies to the session room, we will now consider the responsible question, the reporter of the Voštevsky Valeriy Mikolajovich, please the First Deputy Minister of Economy and European Integration. In short, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew will be the co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u163	Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on the List of Property Rights that are not subject to privatization, adopted by the Supreme Council on 9 September 2004, cannot be signed for the following reasons: the Act on Amendments to the Act on the List of Property Rights that are not subject to privatization is proposed to include the State Enterprise “Sverdlovantratrit”, in this context it should be noted that the State Enterprise “Sverdlovantratt” under the main activity does not refer to the State-owned entities which are not privatised under the Privatisation Act, in addition to this, the Decree of the President established the National Stock Exchange Company “The Coal of Ukraine” which is envisaged to be transferred to the statutory fund of the Company of the State Shareholders Act. Based on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on Listing of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, it is proposed to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u164	Vladimir Josephovich. Please, from the committee, the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national ownership and investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u165	The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment considered the President's proposal to amend the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of a list of public property rights not to be privatized and proposed to reject the Act. The Act of 9 September 2004 provides for the inclusion in the list of public property rights not to be privatized by Sverdlovskantracit. The Chief Research and Expert Office of the Supreme Council believes that the Supreme Council did not violate the budgetary code, as stated in the President's proposals. The Act amending the list of property rights was adopted earlier than the 2005 budget. Furthermore, according to the expert office, the Supreme Council has the right to include mining enterprises in the list of public property rights not to be privatized under article 6 of the Ukrainian Mountain Law. Given that Sverdlovskantracit is one of Ukraine's largest mining enterprises, it is strategic for the economy and energy security of the State, the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment has decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the proposal of the President of Ukraine and vote again in favour of the adoption of the Act at least two thirds of the constitutional composition, i.e. to overcome the veto. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u166	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine is proposing that we reject the law, the committee is proposing to overcome the veto on this Act, the veto of the President of Ukraine. In that order, we'll put it to a vote. Invite the national deputies to the session room. For reasons of vote, Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u167	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to address all my colleagues, regardless of party, factional affiliation, with a request to support the position of the veto committee. I know what I'm talking about, because this is an enterprise, and this city was twice my constituency, and I know very well the situation in this city, and in this union. You know, a few years ago, there was a situation in this holding company where coal production dropped to one thousand tons per day. No one then questioned the privatization of the company. And behind this enterprise, the city and its population of one and a half hundred thousand. So I would like to ask everyone to support the veto. It is extremely important because it is about real, not intended security, energy security for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules, the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects Unprivatized is the first to vote. Registration number 5043-4. [[13:35:03]] For the four of us. Okay, okay. Yes, honourable colleagues, the vote is on the proposal of the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, Registration No. 5043-4. Please vote. [[13:35:48]] For 319 The Supreme Council confirmed the law. Dear National Deputies! We have another law from the President's veto. It's a law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. Registration number 3015. The President of Ukraine made a number of remarks to this law, the committee considered all the President's proposals. We have every reason to accept it in the new edition. No warning? Then I would like your attention, Your Honor, to vote on the adoption of the new Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. Registration number 3015. Please vote. Let's vote on all proposals [[13:36:52]] For 239. The law was passed in a new order. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the day - to - day arrangement and decision - making process. We need to include in the agenda a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on social services centres. This is registration number 6359. We discussed this bill on the Conciliation Council, and we concluded that it needed to be considered. I'm voting on the inclusion of the day. Please vote. [[13:37:43]] For 246 Questions are included in the agenda. The report invites the deputy minister in matters of family, children, and young Tolstouchov Svetlana Valentinovna. Get ready for Andrea Polito.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u169	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with the Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine, a network of social services centres for young people has been established in Ukraine for the past 10 years. There are 1003 of them today. These are 27 regional, 477 district, 161 district centers, 40 district centers in cities, and nearly 300 rural and rural areas. Over the years, however, social services centers for young people have been assigned to social work not only with young people but also with different categories of children and families. Thus, in view of the importance of social work, the Ministry of Family, Children, and Youth has established the State Social Service for the Family, Children, and Youth, as reported by the government. This will allow us today to complete the formation of a comprehensive system of social work and social services not only for young people but for children and for families. Therefore, there was a need for urgent changes to the laws governing the activities of social services centres for young people today: the Child Protection Act, the Pre-Prisonment Act, the Youth Promotion and Development Act, the Youth General Support Act in Ukraine, the Persons’ Social Adaptation Act and the Social Work Act to amend the changes in the appointment of social services centres for young people at the Centre for Social Services for the Family, Children and Youth. More funding for the implementation of this law is not needed, but this will still allow today to optimize the management system of all subjects to do social work and to improve social work in general. So I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? Shall we vote? I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on Social Services Centres]] Registration number 6359. Please vote. [[13:40:17]] For 237 Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, here's the obvious, technical issues, let's take it as a law as a whole. No objections? I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on Social Services Centres]] Registration number 6359. Please be supportive. [[13:40:53]] For 245 Thank you, 245, the law is in. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payability by Bankruptcy is being complied with. [[on coal enterprises]] Registration number 6295. We have to put this project in the agenda first, before we look at it today. Please vote. Come on, let's go, [[13:41:33]] For 213 If the general doesn't make it, what to do in a row. Dear colleagues! Let's mobilize. I'm asking about the inclusion in the agenda and today's consideration of the question: the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payments, registration number 6295. [[to the coal industry]] Please vote. [[13:42:24]] For 236 Questions in the agenda are included. Let us begin his consideration. Reported by National Deputy Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. From the committee here we have Matthews. Are you one of the authors? Please, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Chairman! The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting on 22 December 2004, considered the draft Act amending the Law on the Recovery and Recognition of the Debtor's Payments and Recognition of It by Bankruptcy, registered number 6295 by the People's Deputy Homutinnik. [[Protocol No. 73]] The project proposes to extend the moratorium on the bankruptcy of mining enterprises, whose statutory share of the State is not less than 25 per cent, until 1 January 2007. The moratorium on the bankruptcy of mining enterprises under the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Recognition of the Debtor's Indemnity of Debtors was in force until 1 January 2005. Therefore, the adoption and implementation of the proposed bill would prevent the closure of existing coal enterprises and avoid significant environmental and social problems. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that, as a result of the first reading, the draft be taken as a basis. The Ministry of Economics and Affairs. European integration believes that the adoption of this project is premature without due economic justification. The Committee decided to recommend the adoption of a bill, registration No. 6295, amending the Law on the Recovery of the Indebted Person and its recognition by bankruptcy as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u172	Thank you. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Let's start the discussion. Let's do it in 15 minutes. Carmazine, get ready for Mironka. I can't see Yuri Anatoliovich. Mironenko, please. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u173	Fifth constituency, Crimea, factions of the Ukrainian Company, Mironenko. Respectable compatriots, respected people's deputies, respected Adam Ivanovich. The faction of the Compartia of Ukraine will support this bill, especially since it concerns both part of our domestic economy and a large part of the population of Ukraine. I would like to call on all the deputies to vote in favour of this bill, because I am very afraid that certain MPs can come out of some local interest, that my house can be broken down, I don't know anything, I don't live in this region, I don't care. But those who work in these enterprises are Ukrainian citizens. And if we are to say that all regions are equally important and equally in need of protection, I would ask all deputies and all factions to support this bill. Second. I would like to draw attention to what is once again referred to as unsuspecting stock. And it would be time for us to understand that equity in itself could not have done much harm if it had not been contemplated simply to ensure that the people were robbed through the acquisition of enterprises and the acquisition of these enterprises at a cost. This is what you see in all sectors, respected fellow countrymen, in all sectors of the economy. This is already a principle, the principle of capitalism is to create a layer of capitalists. And it's done. And any MP who assumes that there is a need to live up to the electoral promises, that there is a need for economic growth, must probably reconsider the position and, more strongly, stress, fight to end these shares, end privatization under different types. The destruction of enterprises will still be pursued. And right now, I think we can still adopt this law, but in the future, the corresponding majority of the Supreme Council in accordance with certain social classes, I stress, class orders, because we are now being called upon to abandon class principles, and it exists, the interests of capitalists clearly manifest. That is the new parliamentary majority, which will soon be, will suppress the adoption of a law that will continue to be privatized, which means the destruction of our economy, which will be a heavy burden on the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u174	Solomon’s word. Get ready for Thurman's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u175	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Respectful colleagues, anything related to geological intelligence and mining, are very close to me and painful. So I studied this bill as a carefree person, but I had some questions left. In general, legislation that supports mining needs to be supported, but it is quite different in comparison. The one we knew before. So I asked, for example, this question: Why do we have to support these coal mining enterprises, where the state shares make up 25 percent or more, and no other figure of 50 percent or even 10 percent, I didn't get an answer, but at the same time I heard that the Minprompolitics are against this bill, but there was no explanation as to why this central executive body, which is supposed to be responsible for the state's interests in the coal industry, is an interesting position. I would like to say the following in connection with this, and in conclusion, I would like to say the following. The coal industry, it will still be a permanent backbone of Ukraine's energy security, and it needs to be maintained, despite our doubts, but when such bills are passed, more thorough explanations and arguments would not leave everyone in this room in session when voting with doubts, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u176	Thurmanov, Black Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u177	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In 2003, I remind you, in 2004, we passed this bill with you, and I am very grateful to the deputies that we supported the opportunity to preserve the coal industry. And the law had taken 280 votes, and today nothing in principle had been changed in this new bill, and there was only a change in the term. Why? Because the previous bill was in force until 1 January 2005. Hence, literally from New Year’s Eve, creditors, banks, tax firms immediately resorted to stripping the coal industry. Bankruptcy. And if we don't pass this law with you today, trust me, the coal industry will be destroyed as such. Today, because of chronic underfunding for a number of years of coal industry, we have an industry that has 10 billion accounts payable. If normal funding were available, there would be no debt. That is why I am on behalf of the coal workers who are waiting for this law today, because there are calls coming from places, it is simply an invasion as a Mongolian yoke on coal enterprises in order to tear them apart and destroy them today. I would like, my fellow Members, to have supported this law for two years with you, please support this law, and we must adopt it so that we do not destroy the coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u179	Vladimir Cherniak, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I don't have all the joy, and more than that, I would like to say with deep sadness that I may have to support this bill. Why do I say that? Because this combination of circumstances around the coal industry, in general mining industry, primarily artificial bankruptcy, forces us to take this step, forces us to continue the moratorium on the bankruptcy of mining enterprises. But here I want to put a bold emphasis: I absolutely cannot agree with those who assure us that this is a rescue for the industry. At best, it's an oxygen pillow. When a patient is given an oxygen pillow, it is not to be cured but to be able to use intensive therapy. And we want to give oxygen pillows all the time, and we want to think that that's how we heal the field. In fact, bankruptcy is not as simple as it seems. We don't have a bankruptcy mechanism running, and there's more damage than the benefits. Actually, you have to ask the question like this: or-or. Either the restoration of payability, or bankruptcy, or rehabilitation, or bankruptcy. Moreover, bankruptcy is the first step towards recovery. This is evidenced by world experience. It's about financial bankruptcy, not destruction of businesses. They say, well, I've been to Western countries many times, and I ask them, "What's the main cause of bankruptcy?" They say to me, "There are three reasons for bankruptcy: first reason is bad governance, second reason is bad governance, third reason is bad governance." Especially with regard to specific businesses. What's relevant to the sector is the poor administration of the Cabinet of Ministers, it's bad legislative work of the Supreme Council, it's bad governance by the local authorities. And all we have to do is ask the question: how do we improve the management, how do we find the funds, how do we mobilize, how do we do it, how do we do it, how do we do it, how do we do it, how do we do it, how do we do it, how do we do it, how do we do it? Come on, I'll vote yes, let's give the oxygen pillow one more time. But what will we do next? Let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u180	And thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. But talk to the Supreme Council. Yes, all who wanted to share in the discussion spoke. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Just one word. This law, the adoption of it, the support of those enterprises that it refers to will be a good sign that we will reunite the West and the East, because there are coal mines in the West, and coal mines in the East. And they apply both to one part of Ukraine and to the other. Let's support the Black guy and give the oxygen to these companies again. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Payments. [[on coal enterprises]] Bill number 6295. Please vote. 1:56:45 For 242 Copy that. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, let us accept it as a law in general. I'm talking about acceptance as a whole as a law of Ukraine on the restoration of the ability of the borrower or the recognition of his bankruptcy. [[on coal enterprises]] Registration number 6295. Please vote. [[13:57:22]] For 251 The law is passed. Thank you. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Let's move on to the short-term issues. There is a draft Decision on the full repayment of the debt from the congregation to the Fund for Action to Eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the social protection of the population. Registration number 4225. Please. Shall we vote or discuss? Yes, is the Head of the State Committee for Overcoming the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Alexander Georgievich? You don't? Then please, Hennady Borisovich of the Committee, Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of paying back the debt from the congregation to the Foundation for Action on the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and the Social Protection of the Population. It's about the fact that we had this fund in place and funding arrangements to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by January 1, 1999, at the expense of a centralized congregation to a special fund. The congregation was able to account for the salaries of business entities. The size of the accounts was established by the decree of the President of Ukraine, and by January 1, 1999, the rate was 5 percent of the tax base. The congregation then joined the State Budget, formed a fund and financed a program, and programs were quite numerous. The President’s 1998 decree on certain changes in the tax administration of the said congregation had been abolished, and funding of the fund had been made at the expense of the State budget on a general basis. The Ukrainian Act, adopted in 2002, "On the formation and order of arrival, on the use of funds for the eradication of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster," stated that the debt was to be paid in full, which was due on 1 January 1999 after the fund was collected. If I were to shorten the procedure for my speech, I would like to highlight where we pointed to the violation, from our point of view, which occurred in the process of submitting the Cabinet of Ministers project on the full repayment of the fund's debt. According to our data, and we've made inquiries with the Social Policy Committee to the Court of Auditors, to the Audit Authority. In a round of 400 million dollars, the sum of about 1.5 million dollars is not the same. It's not that big a budget, let's say it's small, but in any case, when a letter came to our attention from the Ministry of Finance that said we couldn't get a full picture, it was signed by one of the deputy ministers of finance. We had doubts that if the Ministry of Finance could no longer answer where the funds were being shared, then something in this country is already going to be wrong. That's why we're basically asking this question, even though a million, even if it were 100,000 or 10,000 dollars, in any case, the Ministry of Finance has to be responsible for every penny of the State Budget. So we're against the question of full repayment until it's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-18-m0.u182	Thank you. Have a seat, please. There is a need to discuss. Who among those who have signed up insists on the discussion? Then let's vote. I'm voting on the draft Decision on the full repayment of the debt from the congregation to the Fund for Action to Eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the social protection of the population. Please vote. [[14:02:09]] For 135 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 37; "Regions of Ukraine" - 33; Communists - 21; National Agrarian Party - 20; Social Democrats, "One Ukraine" Socialists, Block Timoshenko - 0; "Trud Ukraine", NDP - 0; "Soyuz" - 6; "Democratic Initiatives" - 9; "Centre" - 5; non-fractional - 4. Here's a proposal for a draft regulation. I am voting on this bill for re-reading. Please vote. [[14:03:03:03]] For-191 Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. Dear colleagues, you understand and realize how important it is to have more than one million of our citizens behind it. I'm asking you to back up on your first reading. Vote. Rereading the first reading. Come on, let's go. [[14:03:41]] For 216 The factions. Show me the factions, please. There are people, there is no desire. "Our Ukraine" -52; Communists -55; "Regions of Ukraine" -42; National Agrarian -28; Social Democrats -0; "One Ukraine" -0; Socialists -15; Block Timoshenko -0. NDP, "Trud Ukraine" -1, "Soyuz" -5, "Democratic Initiatives" -8, "Centre" -3, "Secondary" -7. Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. This is a rereading of the first reading. We're voting on re-reading. Vote. [[14:04:35]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Well, I see you're getting a little faint. Let's call it a 16-hour break. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
