ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 27 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1428-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u9	Madam President, this measure... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u10	Excuse me, Senator Malan. I ask the senators and senators to lower their voices because it is difficult to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u11	Please, Senator Malan, continue. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). This measure has raised high expectations both in economic operators and among the many Italians looking for work. Just these days we are experiencing the highest unemployment rate in history, and not the last 37 years as some quickly interpret. It is said that it is the first time since 1977 that there has been such a high unemployment rate just because since 1977 there has been the current type of measurement of the unemployment rate. It should be remembered, however, that in 1977 unemployment was 7%, while today it is 13.4%, so it was no longer high in 1977. The current level of unemployment has never been reached before, so today we have the highest level of unemployment ever and the current Commission cannot just say that it is the fault of previous governments; at least it should not increase anymore. This measure has led us to believe that there are boundless horizons for employment growth, while nothing is being opened up. To begin with, as I said yesterday, by explaining the question on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, these are such general rules that are likely to generate uncertainty, and it is precisely the uncertainty that leads to no investment (and hiring new workers is an investment). Not only that. Inside the measure there is practically nothing; the only certainty is that there will be no possibility of reinstatement for dismissals due to economic reasons. But this, as the former Minister Fornero clearly pointed out, was already foreseen in his decree, which, moreover, does not have a good reputation in any of the productive categories of the country. So this prediction was already there: it has been rewritten; a bit like it has been rewritten that public administrations cannot ask for documents of which they already have: a very ancient norm that unfortunately the Government - in this case also other previous Governments - does not apply. Therefore, this forecast is not a novelty because it was already there; moreover, in fact, when the company reduces its staff for economic reasons, it is really difficult to think of a forceful reinstatement, because it would probably cause the company's failure. We have no certainty about the timing and methods, while the second element of which we are certain is that the various contracts that go under the name of precarious (e.g. collaboration contracts) are abolished or progressively exceeded. The terms are all very vague, but this seems to be a certainty. Knowing the reality of the Italian company, it is extremely likely that, on one hundred contracts of this type currently in force, maybe half, to be really very optimistic, they will become those contracts of indefinite duration to increasing protections of which we speak. Here too, however, we must rely on the goodness of the Government to know what these safeguards are, how much and when they grow both from the worker's point of view and from the entrepreneur's point of view. Therefore, to think that half of the entrepreneurs who hire today in fixed-term steps to these contracts already means to be optimistic. I wonder whether the entrepreneur will really trust that, should he no longer need this worker - perhaps after six months or at least after the time he was generally used to linking the duration of fixed-term contracts - he will be able to send him home without any problems. It is enough to see what is happening today, with regard to the decree bearing the name of Minister Poletti (which I thank for his presence in the Chamber: if he tells his colleagues to do the same when measures of their specific interest are being discussed, we will be even more grateful to him, but in the meantime, I commend him to the House in the debate on the measure, which qualifies his Dicastery better). Therefore, the contract to increasing protections does not rely on the companies; the companies in fact today, as a result of the decree that bears the name of the minister Poletti, that has made possible - unlike the law Fornero - to make several'shifts of employment to fixed time, sometimes they do not use this possibility and instead apply the old law, fearing that then, before a magistrate of the job or the demands of a union, they are told that it is not worth the norm today, but still valid the previous norm. Perhaps they are wrong, but in reality this happens: let alone what could happen with a contract that, good or bad, is called an indefinite contract. Entrepreneurs could therefore wonder whether, by hiring a permanent worker, they can really send him away. It might seem difficult for them. It's hard enough now, with these kinds of contracts, let alone in the future. It is possible, therefore, that 50% of these contracts may become permanent contracts for increasing protections - and we must hope that, for the sake of our country, for the workers and the unemployed who would not want to be anymore - but the other workers, or the other 50%, will become unemployed. This is a very negative fact and it must be stressed that the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council, who said that this is the most left-wing measure taken by his Government, is explained in this respect. Indeed, believing that a rule is enough to change reality is part of a certain left-wing mentality, which does not apply to the whole left, and that we would hope, for the good of the country, that it will be overcome, left-wing and right-wing, of course. I am referring to the idea that it is enough to write a rule to change reality. Reality can at most be improved or encouraged to go in a certain direction, but reality does not change. If the situation is the current one, at least half of these fixed-term contracts will turn into unemployment contracts. If this is the new left, I don't see much newness compared to the left that we thought was over, listening to the very statements of the leaders of the Democratic Party and of Matteo Renzi himself. However, the most serious problem of the measure under consideration remains the absolute generality of the delegation, which gives the Government the opportunity to do exactly what it wants, perhaps by entering into the legislative decrees of the rules decided not in Parliament, but in the central direction (or in the steering committee: I do not remember exactly what this organ is called) of the Democratic Party. It is a very respectable body, but it is not Parliament, to which Article 70 of the Constitution entrusts the power and the duty to make laws and to make them in the light of the sun, and in which the various positions are reported and where those who vote know what they vote for. You, ladies and gentlemen, who are preparing to vote on the measure, most likely through a vote of confidence, will indeed do an act of confidence. In fact, more than an act of trust is an act of faith, but faith, in my opinion, should be reserved for more serious things, and not for a very generic delegation, through which the Government can do anything. For example, it will be able to establish that the minimum wage is 50 cents per hour - and so even those who work full-time may not even have the means to survive - or to establish a minimum high and demagogic pay, which in the immediate future will make the workers hope, but that in the medium or short term it will mean that those jobs will no longer be there. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Angioni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my fellow senators, since the beginning of the debate on the measure, I have heard several statements, both in support and in criticism, aimed in my opinion more at redefining the roles of the forces that affect the world of work than at actually measuring themselves on instruments that involve a reversal of the trend of the number of people employed in our country and an improvement of the conditions of those who have it, are about to lose it or have already lost it. We must, therefore, first take up the merit of the comparison and, then, immediately say that a law does not in itself have the capacity to create new work. Even this measure alone will not have the opportunity to do so. However, a new piece of legislation can intercept the willingness to hire when an entrepreneur feels sufficiently secure in the face of new market conditions. Of course, however, it is the development of the market that makes the difference, as always, and it is certain that the main problem that has reduced employment in recent years is the state of our economy, the recession of recent years, but above all a growth that has not started again for about fifteen years. Without a strong recovery there can be no new enthusiasm on the part of companies to make new investments and, therefore, for new recruitment. The latest data from ISTAT tell us that we will lose half a point of GDP in 2014 and that investments have decreased by one percentage point already today. I referred first to the quality of work in some sectors of production with current labour standards. I must say that I am not at all convinced, as I have heard in recent months, of a widespread idyllic relationship in our business world, of a relationship of collaboration between the parties; indeed, it seems to me that over the last two decades forms of exploitation and, I would say, of disbanding between the parties have re-emerged. I am referring to those contracts which, today, with the current rules, leave the worker little chance to assert his rights. We are talking about basic rights: from illness to vacation, to maternity for women. By now two generations of workers, for a large part, carry out their activities with contracts of this kind, those which until recently we called atypical and which instead have become the typical contracts of two generations of workers. In a large part of the present system there is no protection of the worker as a person; there is no facilitation of an individual and family life path. The reform from this point of view gives centrality to the contract indefinitely defining it as a common form of employment contract. This seems fundamental to me to renew the value of work. He resumes to think of the worker as a person and as responsible for his own life project. In the same way, I believe it is essential to affirm in the reform the value of motherhood for all workers. Furthermore, it seems to me to be a very important fact that we recognise the universal right to social shock absorbers, with the State taking responsibility not to leave the citizens, all of them, who lose their jobs. I must also say that I do not believe that the amendment of Article 18 in this provision was felt as a decisive or important issue, not even by the business world. The amendment of the Government, approved to the House, which reinstates the possibility of reinstatement also for disciplinary dismissals (even on some specific cases, which the Government decree will have to establish), seems to me to be already a step forward compared to the text dismissed by the Senate. Moreover, I would like to stress that on this point our Constitution, the fundamental laws of our legal system and a judiciary which is able to apply those principles and rules remain in force. I do not think that there is a magistrate who will not allow the reinstatement in the workplace when the dismissal took place for economic reasons, but in fact hides something else. On the issues of active labour policies, I refer to what has already been pointed out by a number of colleagues, as well as to the issues that arise on the resources to be allocated. In order to return to the merit of the measure, with regard to both the delegated law and the delegated decrees, it is necessary to resume a loyal and constructive relationship with all the parties concerned by the reform, including union. In the history of the Republic the union has been, not only an instrument of affirmation of the rights of workers, but also one of the most involved actors in the construction of the moral values of our democracy. This is a fact that no one can ignore. It is true, of course, that even the union can not be called out of the responsibility of not having fully understood the processes that in recent decades were affirmed in our society, with the birth of new hardships and social needs and with the demand, often dramatically unheard, of representation of those hardships, of those needs that have invested at least two generations of workers. Yet, at the same time, I believe that our country should be grateful to the union for how it managed to play a role of balance and responsibility in the most acute phases of the crisis, not yielding to the temptation to exploit the exasperation of the hundreds of thousands of people most severely affected by the crisis itself. I wonder what tensions our country would probably face today, after more than six years of crisis, without that balance and responsibility. I am convinced that today too the decisive role of the union in avoiding untenable degenerations of social protest must be recognised, also from a point of view of the protection of public order. This recognition is not superfluous when it comes to the labour market once again, in a few years. The delegated decrees will be crucial in order to really understand whether this reform will be a good reform, as I believe, in order to overcome the many doubts that continue to be expressed about the measure; to really increase the possibility of creating new jobs, but also to increase rights and not to remove them. For this reason, it is necessary for the Government, and the Minister in particular, in the preparation of the decrees to confront effectively with Parliament and the social partners, without giving up its role, its autonomy and its duty, but also knowing that the confrontation will give greater strength and effectiveness to this measure. And many of us want this provision to be strong and effective for the good of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u14	Senator Munerato is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are meeting again to discuss the great reform of the work that your Prime Minister Renzi, strong and convinced in his knowledge of English, has decided to appoint jobs act. This government wants and demands white delegations to implement the reform of social shock absorbers, labour services and active policies, to reorder the discipline of labour relations and inspection activities and to protect and reconcile the needs of care, life and work. Here, with two words in English - jobs act - the Government wants to intervene on all these matters without any stake on our part! Very clear, isn't it? The government wants a blank delegation from this Parliament to decide the future of millions of workers, 3.5 million unemployed, 400,000 exodus and many precarious people. The government doesn't want to argue with us. And I say 'noi', my fellow senators, but I also mean my colleagues in the House of Deputies, that by regular elections we have been elected - I repeat: elected - unlike the abusers who are sitting on the ranks of this Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The government wants to be authorized to do what it wants on the skin of those who work or, even worse, those who no longer have a job. I would like to remind you that the members of this government were the promoters and those who designed and voted on the Fornero law. In your opinion, ladies and gentlemen, with what courage can we give to them the future of our country? For months we have only been talking about Article 18 to hide the true face of this reform that destroys the social state. I call into question the union, which as a zombie reappeared with the flag of Article 18 only to justify the withdrawal of each month in the payroll of workers and pensioners. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Three years ago, he didn't blink while the Fornero law was being approved! Now, however, he seems to have woke up and should support our referendum on the repeal of the notorious law of Mrs. Crocodile Tears. If youth unemployment is constantly increasing - I remember the latest figures speak of 43 percent, historical record - it is the fault of that law, which keeps grandparents working and leaves young people in bars. This reform does not satisfy either small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or workers, because it does not provide either of them with a guarantee of greater flexibility or greater job protection. A very bad copy of that winning model of flexicurity applied in other European countries and which the North League has been proposing for years. A swindling rule, because it is however circumventable: the employer, in order not to incur the litigation of unjustified disciplinary dismissal, will fire only for economic reasons. However it goes, at most it will have to compensate but not reinstate. We are very sceptical about the contract of increasing protections as an instrument for relaunching domestic demand. For the purpose of applying for loans, loans or personal loans or in any case of increased consumption in general, the solvency of the worker employed under this contract is equal to that of a forward contractor or a project co-worker, at least in the first three years. This will certainly not contribute to economic recovery. Although some of our agendas have been accepted, we remain very critical of the reform of social shock absorbers. The order referred to in paragraph 1 of the provision is also the subject of a blank delegation. We wanted to make sure that the new universal shock absorber, the so-called ASPI, could provide workers with benefits equal to or greater than the current ones, certainly not lower. That was what our amending proposals were for. Their rejection by the majority and the Minister's statements on the need to use more resources on social shock absorbers do not comfort us. In fact, we are concerned, because we interpret them as confirmation of our fears. We are also concerned about the provisions contained in paragraphs 3 and 4 on the reorganisation of labour services, with particular regard to the establishment of yet another public coach, a National Employment Agency, the integrated management of active and passive labour policies. In order to create new, and above all quality, jobs, it is also necessary to take action on essential services in the field of active labour policy, in order to improve their efficiency and functionality. In order to avoid further waste of public resources, we believe it is necessary to rationalise existing structures by eliminating unproductive ones. Far from wanting to do pure demagogy, it is a fact that the centers for employment in some territorial realities work best fulfilling the task of bringing together questions and job offers. Others, on the other hand, are inefficient and expensive public carriages. For this reason, we had tabled a number of amendments concerning the abolition, with relative amalgamation of the structure and staff to the nearest one territory, of those centres which during the solar period of one year have not placed or relocated at least a percentage of workers equal to the national average reduced by 1% and the loss of accreditation for employment agencies that during the solar year have not placed or relocated a percentage of workers at least equal to the national average reduced by 1%. Unfortunately, our amendments have not even been taken into account to prove that the Government is deaf to improved proposals and, like a mule, is proceeding along the road that it has already decided. With less criticality, however, we evaluate the interventions carried out by paragraphs 8 and 9 in the matter of support to parenthood and to facilitate the opportunities for reconciling the times of life and work, first of all for the reception already in the first reading here at the Senate of our amendment on so-called solidarity holidays, that is the possibility of giving each other the days of rest in excess of those provided for by the national contract [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] to allow a sick child to stay close to him even if he has completed his maximum rest period. We have also tabled another proposal in the Commission to extend this protection to workers and workers with cancer or parents of children with this disease, but unfortunately it has not been taken into account either. The Commission has merely accepted our agenda. We now trust in this House. We share the aim of extending the protection of motherhood to all female mothers. However, we would not like this enlargement of the audience to result in a further increase in the cost of labour for businesses, because this would not favour women's employment but, on the contrary, hinder it. We do not think it right that the burden should be borne by the worker's income because this does not support her, but rather punishes her. We also agree with the amendment to the text on leave for women included in the protection pathways relating to gender violence. We regret the amending silence in the Commission on the possible abolition of the deduction per dependent spouse. In fact, the question is a sort of yellow whose mystery will be unveiled by the delegated decree. A working draft before the measure reached the Senate expressly provided for its abolition by excluding public employees. The text before us, which is now before the House, uses the term 'harmonisation', but it is clear to everyone that this is an understatement. We would like to remind the Government and the parliamentary majority that the abolition of the deduction is equivalent to a cut in salary or pension of about 1,000 euros per year for those who have an income between 8,000 and 20,000 euros per year and about 700 euros for those who have an income from 21,000 to 25,000 euros per year. A blow to all families of single-income workers and pensioners! We regret that no one among the many Members who are banning their family support policy has pointed the finger at the risk of such a repeal. We hope that they can repent during the debate in this House. Having said all this, according to your Prime Minister Renzi, with this reform there will be a great recovery. Our entrepreneurs will no longer have alibis and will start hiring à gogo, perhaps also occupying all the illegals that every day land on our coasts. Dear President-in-Office of the Council, do you think that our companies will no longer relocate just because we have taken away workers' rights? If that is really what you think, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am very concerned because I understand that in your opinion the fault of the crisis we find ourselves in is for those who work for 1,000 euros a month! It is not by taking off the holidays of the workers, and perhaps by canceling even the thirteenth, that Italy becomes the number one nation in Europe! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In your opinion, President Renzi, if we give our workers a bowl of rice a day, our entrepreneurs will no longer be producing in China and Italy will rise again? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u17	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, reading these days some statements have occurred to me to those games of ambivalent images that are used in training courses. In the first of these images - the most famous image, invented in 1930 - are represented and can be seen both an old lady and a young woman with sail. In other words, depending on the perception of each of us, the same image can have a double reading. Why did I think of this image? Let's read some statements in sequence. On 29 November, Minister Alfano said: If we can say that we have implemented the centre-right programme, it is also for the jobs act, for Article 18, for the reform of the labour market. But Prime Minister Renzi, the secretary of my party, in his speech in the direction of 1 December said that the jobs act is the most left-wing reform that has been done in the world of the labour market. It is clear that both see in the same text two completely different things, Minister. We believe that both see them - I say it by weighing the words - through the filter of ideology: they see what they want to see. We - on the other hand - have sought and strived, in these weeks, both in the first passage to the Senate and to the House, to remain on the merits, obstinately on the merits, faithful - we do and claim it - to a reformist approach and not abstractly ideological. As I pointed out last time, it was others who brandished Article 18 as a sort of club against trade unions and, therefore, against workers. On the substance, we recognise improvements that were made earlier in the Senate Commission and later in the House Commission. We consider them important improvements and steps forward. Last but not least: a better definition of distance checks on installations and not on workers; the right to reinstate the dismissed worker not only for discriminatory reasons, but also for unjustified disciplinary reasons, even if only in this case that should be properly specified. But it is precisely by remaining on the subject that we cannot fail to observe that there are still very significant critical elements for which we expect, both from the Minister's reply and in the implementing decrees, of the non-ambiguous answers, that cannot be read as the text I mentioned at the beginning. There is one issue that we have raised, which we reiterate and which we do not find in the text that has been approved by the House: I am referring to the fact that the whole part of the reform of social shock absorbers and of the new active labour policies must, in our opinion, precede the reform of contracts and not, once again, at best, follow this reform of contracts, if not put in a drawer, as has already happened for other labour reforms. There is a question of resources, Minister, and on this we are asking for clarity in the reply. There is a ballet of figures that frankly puzzles us. It is clear that the implementation of the basic job-act system, which is not the amendment of Article 18, but rather an advanced idea of modern labour market, needs additional and significant resources compared to previous appropriations for old social shock absorbers. There is another question, which is that of dismissals for economic reasons. This is a point on which the Government held on, which therefore allowed to say that there was no longer Article 18 for new recruits. We would like to see clarity in the implementing decrees and the possibility of intervening in cases of abuse by the entrepreneur of this motivation. Otherwise - let us not fool ourselves - they will all become redundancies for economic reasons and what should be an exception will become the rule. Finally, there is an issue on which we feel with a clear conscience. We have made a proposal and we have expressed it in the amendment we tabled last time. The proposal was that the so-called new contract for increasing protection, a useful instrument to rationalise and deforeste the jungle of precarious contracts and to facilitate entry into a system of protection of workers, particularly young workers, should have a deadline, which we proposed at 36 months, but we could possibly go further, but the principle of increasing protection means that at some point growth ends and we enter normal. Well, with this decree we sanction instead that the new recruits, young and old, from 1 January 2015, will be subject to an indefinite contract, yes, but to safeguards that instead of growing will be reduced, and reduced for the whole life. It is true that this can be seen, again in this case, in the logic of the ambivalent image, as a step forward for VAT consignments, for co.co.pros and for other precarious contracts, but the possibility, for an entire generation, of having a point of arrival that was, for the generation of our fathers and for ours, the permanent contract with the protection of Article 18 has been substantially cancelled. Article 18, we must tell ourselves to the end, that no entrepreneur, no foreign investor places first as a motivation not to come to invest in Italy. There are other issues, we know them well and I do not repeat them briefly, which entrepreneurs put to the Italian system to relaunch investments. We expect, therefore, that in your reply, Minister, you will be able to give us clear and uninterpretable answers. The country needs clarity, it doesn't need ambivalent images. We will, as always, do our part responsibly and we ask that the Government have, with regard to our observations and our criticisms, which have always remained on the merit level and therefore animated by a constructive spirit, answers. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate in this House that our commitment will continue, because this delegation law, which continues to have too many elements of genericity, will follow the passage of the implementing decrees. We therefore reaffirm our commitment to constant, strict and constructive supervision of the implementing decrees, which we hope and believe the Government will issue in agreement and listening to the relevant parliamentary committees, in a proper relationship between Parliament and the Executive. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u18	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u19	Madam President, the way we look at the world of work requires some reflection on the complexity of the subject, but above all on its implications for what we might call the immediate surroundings, the need to overcome all the formal and substantial obstacles in order to ensure that all citizens have a free and dignified existence. It is the Constitution that reminds us of this: it reminds us of this in Article 1 and, above all, in Article 3. Over the years, we have seen first of all the affirmation of workers' rights by Law No 300 of 1970, the so-called Workers' Statute, followed by the 2003 Biagi Act, the so-called 2010 work link, and, last but not least, the 2012 Fornero Act. All measures aimed, in the legislator's animus, at innovating, protecting, promoting and improving the results of which are known to all: we are all paying the consequences of the outcome of these measures. We have been unarmed in the dismantling of the dignity of workers; piece by piece all rights have been changed for the future to economic and organizational needs, although we have been told that this has happened because of globalisation rather than the economic crisis, the débâcle of Western capitalist systems. In short, everyone has told their own personal Truman show. Finally, this law delegates to the Government, which, in its emptiness, delimits in a smoky way the principles and guiding criteria within which the exercise of the legislative function is delegated, the one which we have called a blank delegation. However, without clear boundaries to the exercise of the legislative function delegated to the Commission, no definite and perhaps even appreciable results are achieved. In other words, we are the same: we tend to heal situations that are no longer sustainable, rather than defining once and for all and in detail - perhaps even with unpopular choices, but with a wider scope - the condition of precarious people in the world of work. Just recently the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled - this time in relation to the school sector and not for the first time in relation to the argument in general - in relation to the Italian legislation on fixed-term employment contracts because, according to the Court, such legislation would be contrary to Union law. In particular, the Court of Justice has pointed out that the unlimited renewal of fixed-term contracts to meet permanent and lasting needs in state schools is not justified. I would like to reiterate this point in this House, where we are discussing jobs act today. Since January 2015, given the guidelines illustrated on 3 September by our Premier (we still wonder why the Minister Giannini did not do it at the time, perhaps because of a problem of political hats), the measures on the school will start. But then the Minister and our Premier will have to take account of this judgment, in which the Court then recalls how the framework agreement applies to all workers, without giving distinctions in relation to the public or private nature of the employer, as well as to the sector of activity concerned. So, once again, we have been wandered in Europe, because national legislation disagrees with Community principles, those same principles that have been signed and transposed into our legal system, but which obviously escape the legislator. Even without further entering into the substance of the judgment, it is sufficient to stress the need to intervene definitively on the depreciated and persistent recurrence of fixed-term contracts in order to compensate for structural shortcomings and delays, both in the public administration and in the private sector, also using sanctions, if necessary, providing and possibly imposing a proportionate, effective and dissuasive sanction. I shall conclude with a heartfelt appeal. We live in an age in which everyone now, even the least informed people, perceives how this country is on a slope and is going down towards a condition of subalternity, subdiction and colonial country. I have lived in Third World countries that have been former colonies of great empires; I have seen how you live there, I have studied the decline of those countries and what has not been done by local governments to try to limit this decline. I do not want and will fight until the last, along with my Group, so that this country will remain sovereign and not be reduced to a colony in the outskirts of large centres. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u20	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u21	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the delegation in the field of work, which has already been approved first by the Senate, only thanks to the vote of confidence in the Government, and then in the House, with the elated release of 40 members of the Democratic Party at the time of the vote. In each of the two parliamentary passages, the judgment of Forza Italia was, and still is, profoundly critical. From a formal point of view, this is a vague, indeterminate and excessive delegation, which leaves the government the power to change in one direction or another - and this is unacceptable to us - such important and sensitive issues, while at the same time expelling Parliament from its functions under the Constitution. Before describing the most controversial points of the measure, attention should be drawn to the alarming figures of unemployment. The unemployment rate is growing steadily. Even in October there was the worst figure since 1977, reaching the record 13.2%, and almost 3 and a half million job seekers. There is no doubt that we are experiencing a difficult historical moment from an economic and social point of view, which is likely to result in irreversible collapse if we continue to give birth to measures which do not consider contingent reality. In this sense our absolute disagreement with the desire to eliminate contractual forms that facilitate what the left calls precarious work goes. In the light of what is written in the delegation, coordinated and continuous collaboration relationships will be eliminated. These contractual types of subordinate work, introduced by the Biagi law, are - unlike what is generally thought - an indispensable tool for integration into the world of work. In particular, given the severe recession that surrounds Italy, where thousands of businesses are closing and where work is becoming a mirage, it is inconceivable to abolish these contracts which, however, make it easy to establish employment relations. In many parts we want to reiterate only that the coco.co.co. create unstable working relationships, and therefore to be demonized. Well, we consider them appropriate and compatible with the attempt to overcome this dramatic reality in which even youth unemployment reaches the record level of 43.3%, which translates into more than 700,000 young people between the fifteen and twenty-four years old who do not have a job. Not only that, but it is stated in the delegation that, in the face of the elimination of so-called atypical contracts, permanent recruitment is favoured through reductions in contributions granted to the employer for a period of three years. The resources provided for the facilitations, as set out in the Stability Act, do not appear to be sufficient to give impetus to the effective creation of new permanent jobs. It is not the time to look at the ideological lens that sees the stability of the working relationship as the only parameter for assessing the quality of work, but it is time to combat the phenomenon of unemployment with effective measures. On the other hand, the Government has said it is determined to support a more efficient public intervention able to give support and stimulus to the search for a new job, through effective shock absorbers and suitable active policies. But it is found that, in order to implement the relevant provisions of the delegation law, large financial resources are needed, which the government had initially promised to allocate to the stability law. Well, where are the billions that would be needed? The text of the Stability Act, which is now under discussion in Parliament, provides for measures to finance labour reform which have proved to be modest and absolutely insufficient to provide the necessary economic support. It is not only us in Forza Italia who support the inadequacy of the funding planned so far, but also technicians and representatives of the Democratic Party in the House. Only to report some figures, the Stability Act initially provided for the allocation of two billion to a fund for the reform and extension of social shock absorbers, for the reorganization and strengthening of active policies and services for the employment and improvement of inspection systems. The Chamber's examination was limited to a small increase in the fund: only 200 million for 2015 and 2016. It is worth mentioning the draft revision of Article 18. The Government's desire to overcome the biggest barrier to a more flexible and modern labour market has crumbled under the pressure of the various minorities and trade union currents within the Democratic Party. Moreover, the Premier himself in recent days has had to admit that this is the most left-wing job reform ever done. What we read today is such a limited purpose in the ambitions of reform as counterproductive, the result of internal compromises within the Democratic Party, which do not fundamentally change the discipline of dismissals. In fact, for disciplinary ones the original approach of compulsory reintegration remains for all those cases that still have to be identified and categorized by the Government and that leave full discretion to the judge in resolving the concrete case. Forza Italia has, on the other hand, proposed a simpler and more unambiguous way, linking the reintegration to the non-susistence of the disputed fact detrimental to the dignity and moral and professional figure of the worker and, in any case, providing the possibility for the employer to opt for the payment of a clear and definite compensation. In conclusion, I would just say that Forza Italia does not agree with the approach or the content of this delegation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u23	Madam President, Minister, we have reached an important milestone today and it has not been easy. We have devoted ourselves to the discussion of this law delegates significant months in terms of time and attention. It was right that there should be discussion and that the right balance should be found between the various needs. In my opinion an advanced synthesis has been achieved and the role of the Senate has been important and decisive, because it is here that the most significant changes and innovations have taken place also with respect to the initial text of the Government. And the work in the Commission, always followed with diligence by our undersecretary Villanova and with the leadership of President Sacconi and Vice President Spilabotte, has been significant from every point of view, also for the constructive dialogue with the oppositions, but, strangely, like Dr Jekyll and Mr Hide, in the Commission they have a collaborative and tender behavior and then here in the Chamber they trigger the evil ire. Frankly, I find many of the comments and criticisms that have emerged in the debate unfair, absurd and unclear. In some moments, when I listen to some comments or speeches here I wonder: are we talking about the same thing? Are we talking about what we're approving or something? Since April we have done nothing but discuss, modify, specify, but it is as if there was a breakdown between what many people want to represent outside and what we are really doing. I can think of Flaiano when he writes: "Collective names are used to make confusion. "People, audience..." One day you realize it's us. Instead, you thought they were the others. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us, even if it is hypocritically believed that it is always up to others. It is up to us to make up for delays and give answers. We're the ones who have to decide here and now. There will be those who will go on - and I will be among them - and those who will continue to comfortably do the beautiful soul and hinder. But do we realize that too many times, when we found the answers, have they already changed our questions? Perhaps this is already one of those occasions when, while we find the answers, the questions of the country have already become others. We live like this, in this absurd country, always late. Today, while we approve this delegation, someone realizes that there are iniquities; others realize that unemployment is there; others still agree that young unemployed people are too many, as if there were no history of reasons, big issues, sometimes bigger than us. Some people may argue that these problems arise precisely with the delegation. In fact, this is a necessary reform, and it will be the details of the decrees delegated to specify and write the real and overall jobs act. Italy needs reforms; young people and the weakest need them. We are a people and a country that is sometimes numb, and will not be awakened by an inauspicious mix of anger, such as aquism and exasperation, certainly not useful in strengthening the ranks of certain maximalisms of a part of our left; to take advantage of this climate will be the areas of racist and populist demagogy. But so it is: one prefers to exasperate the tones for a little 'visibility and also to drag the union into a political issue, rather than look at the merit of the reform. Hopeful and necessary - I address the Minister and the Undersecretary - is instead a positive dialogue between the Executive, trade unions and companies on how to increase the productivity of the country, and how to increase the opportunities for work. In fact, I have heard improvised defenders of rights and trade unions, the same as we have heard against the trade unions in the last election campaign. I ask: have you ever met any young people or unemployed people who have left Italy to look elsewhere for Article 18? I don't know about these young people; I know young people who go away with degrees and with masters to look for a job, whatever it is, sometimes black and precarious. What are we gonna tell these guys? What are we defending? What are we perched on? On Article 18 or not on our resistance to change? This reform is urgent. The figures have been quoted: 42.9% is the youth unemployment rate. It's very high, too high, we can't Let's have it. Between fifteen and twenty-four years there are 698,000 unemployed and 3.2 million are the total number of unemployed. Faced with these huge numbers, we cannot remain hostage to divisions. We're playing a bigger game than we are, and we need to be aware of that. Closing the reform by the end of the year gives Italy some credibility. With the new rules of employment and the contemporary decontribution from 1 January for those who assume indefinitely we give a sign of confidence not only to companies that want to create work but also to those who seek it. The delegation reform that we approve is progressing while new resources will be available in the Stability Act for those who lose their jobs. This delegation has its own balance which must not be distorted; then it will be up to the implementing decrees, which will be the true heart of the reform, to enter even more into the substance of some issues. That is why the whole debate should be reduced to the question of Article 18. The delegation law has in fact met a greater challenge: to build a new labour market. The delegation also provides for the harmonization of unemployment benefits, the reorganization of active policies, the creation of a legal minimum wage, as well as the extension of maternity protection. It also provides for a reorganisation of the system of employment centres, through the National Employment Agency, and does not forget staff from the suppressed or reorganised administrations or offices. The delegation returns equity to a deeply unfair system. In Italy there are 8 million permanent employees protected by Article 18 in private companies and 9 million fixed-term workers with VAT more easily fireable than in any other country. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise as a very positive aspect that the confirmation of the 80 euros per month provided for in the Law of Stability for Incomes of up to 26,000 euros, in short, the 80 euros net, is much more than a renewal of the contract. This is a concrete and positive sign. The delegation of work is qualified as linked to the law of stability - as my colleague, Senator Ichino, said in the beginning of the debate - with all positive consequences, but that urge us to concentrate in the work in a few days. The changes made to the Chamber of Deputies have improved, but they have not changed the fundamentals of the delegation, and therefore the premises and the system defined at first reading in the Senate have been fully confirmed. I recall the three basic pillars of the measure: new rules on social shock absorbers, new rules on services in the market and regulations on employment contracts and their dissolution. The delegation seeks, in short, to move from a labour system characterised by profound disparities in protection, which are repeatedly subjected to severe criticism from Europe, to a new system, which aims rather to implement measures to correct the distortions of the labour market, which are still characterised by enormous injustices. In many speeches I have heard cases and examples: I could do so too, perhaps telling some pitiful stories of my city, where the earthquake and the post-earthquake period have been added to the economic crisis, of European and international importance. They are the stories of so many precarious lives, because their work is precarious, and the stories of those who leave. I do not intend to do that, because we also owe it to these people in this House to whom we must offer solutions. They are looking for work, which is increasingly difficult to find: if you will excuse me, I am therefore proud to have made this difficult journey. The word'shame' almost always hangs out in this Chamber, wielded like a weapon. I say then that we should have been ashamed if we had not achieved this goal and if we had not allowed our country to take a step forward. We can't wait for better times, they never come. "We must use time as an instrument, not as an armchair," Kennedy said, and we must use the time we have been given to change the country. That is why I will vote in favour of this important reform. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u24	We greet the students and students of the Technical Institute of Industry (Enrico Fermi) in Rome. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u25	Madam President, I think this is a measure on which we must be truthful. When I say that we must make truth, I mean that we must also understand what the origin of this provision is and in which thread it is grafted. In this country we have already put our hands on labour legislation; we have also done so quite recently, multiplying the contractual forms, strongly insecure the condition of the worker, giving the system of enterprises the very wide possibility to act without having any particular constraints. We have reduced the ability to protect the Workers' Statute, to make it almost absent, and all this has produced the highest unemployment index that the history of the labour market in Italy has experienced in recent years. It is not only 13.2% of the October figure, it is also worth the way in which this figure was collected; everyone knows that we have changed the method of collecting the data and that it takes one hour of work during the reference period or just being a family member within a family business, even without receiving income, to be considered employed. It is enough to be subject to certain special schemes of support of social shock absorbers to be regarded as occupied, but that worker is not employed. The numbers are inflated on the basis of European indications to make the country appear healthier than it actually is. That policy that is the basis of these choices, all academic and not at all based on the constant experience of life, leads this country to decline and ruin. It would suffice to say what is happening with our production system and services. We cry out for victory when a historic Italian factory passes from the hands of an Italian entrepreneur or company owned by an Algerian, when the flag airline passes from the availability of this country to the capital of the Emirates, when a hospital like San Raffaele, which suffers a crack, as you all know, finds in Olbia a solution with the capitals of Qatar. This is the Italy you're building. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, LN-Aut, M5S and Senator Mussini Groups]] It is a non-existent Italy on the economic and social level. This is a measure that will do harm because it is based on lies. I do not want to mention everything there is, but only in paragraph 7 the letters b), c), and d), i.e. the lot of the contract without a time limit to increasing safeguards, the interventions on economic dismissals and the revision of the discipline of the tasks. We do not know which undertaking will be able to operate because they are all closed by us. I come from a region where in the last year the unemployment rate has increased by 4.3 percentage points, 32,000 more unemployed and 10,000 people have lost their jobs. And what does that mean forever? Indeterminate time would be guaranteed by a wording of this type contained in the bill: the legislative decrees that the Government is delegated to adopt consequently to this law delegation have the objective to promote, in line with the European indications, the contract to indefinite time as a common form of contract. What does "common form of contract" mean? What does increasing protection mean if dismissal for economic purposes takes place every three or four years? Is it the history of the worker who weighs or the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council - and not only him - has pointed out so many times that the fixed working time is over and that we are now in uncertain and insecure working time or, indeed, insecure work that is not there? [[Applause from the Mixed Groups - SEL, M5S and Senators Ricchiuti and Paglini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u26	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u27	Madam President, I believe that everything has been said. I would just like to emphasise a few points. In the meantime, I understand the need in this House to address individual issues one piece at a time. We are now emphasising the delegation of work and, above all, the issue of flexibility in work. I would like to point out, however, that this flexibility in the DEF will move, even in the long term, and not just in the short, just a few decimal places of percentage point GDP; and that it will shift employment and unemployment by about one percentage point. So, in reality, this flexibility will not move the country's economy in the long term, but it will create a war between the poor, a war that is already everywhere and is becoming, really, not just an economic crisis, but a real social emergency. We know that the workplace can no longer be fixed, like that of our fathers or grandparents. But a certain income must be established for all citizens. If you do not have a certain job, a certain income must have it, because otherwise you do not eat. This is a fundamental point, which I do not think has yet been taken into account. Therefore, today we will hold a press conference and, at last, perhaps we will bring our proposal for citizenship income into these classrooms. However, I wanted to make a broader speech. We always talk about one subject at a time, breaking all the issues. Instead, it is important to keep an eye on the overall picture. We are talking about work, which we cannot fail to see in a broader matter. As I said before, in the DEF this delegation moves very little. I wonder why this government, instead of focusing on flexibility, and therefore on a war between the poor (because people are going to be cut off to get a job, with an increasingly low wage), will not have a clear law on self-recycling, which, based on data from the Bank of Italy, would move 10% of GDP. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This delegation law will shift 0.1 or 0.2 percent of GDP, while a clear law on self-recycling would shift 10%. And a clear law on corruption would shift investment from abroad to Italy by 15% of GDP. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So we would move 25% of GDP with two very simple laws, written clearly. Instead, we approve this delegation law (which will lead to a few percentage points shift) and we also go and tell Europe that this is a fundamental maneuver, because it will be one of the cornerstones of the revolution that will take place in Italy. I extend the vision and the circle even more. There is only flexibility, and there is no focus on self-laundering and the fight against corruption. Now, looking very well at the reality of my Region, which is Emilia-Romagna, a very rich region from which, among other things, the Minister also comes, I wonder why these laws on self-recycling and corruption are not approved. And then I discover that in Emilia-Romagna there is the Mafia: indeed the Mafia, and not the Mafia. And she's not a standard mafia. We have been so good in Emilia-Romagna, that the 'ndrangheta we call the other 'ndrangheta, because the mafias in Emilia-Romagna have created holding companies. Since Emilia-Romagna is a rich region (even if for a little while, since you are destroying everything), the mafias, who no longer know how to invest all their money, come to Emilia-Romagna and join the local economy. And who do you think is allowed to do that? Going back, this is allowed by the fact that laws are not made as they should; that we do not have certain laws on self-reclosure and corruption. The circle that closes is always the same and therefore it is always politics. Speaking of politics, always in Emilia-Romagna, it comes to wonder, with some embarrassment, why we are talking anyway about Delrio, who at this moment is a member of the Government, as he and other people, who were candidates in 2009 in Reggio Emilia, participated in a procession in Cutro. Cutro is not located in Emilia-Romagna, but in Calabria, and is the beating heart of the Grande Aracri family, headed by Francesco Grande Aracri and his brother Nicolino, who is among the 30 richest clans of the ndrangheta. If politicians have to go to the procession in Cutro in Calabria during the election campaign, perhaps a question mark should be put to us. I would like to keep out of this fact Sonia Masini, who is the only exponent of the Democratic Party who refused to go in procession and of course is the only one who saw her career blocked after this event. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But in Emilia-Romagna we have not only the other 'ndrangheta. We have the Casalesi and the Camorra, especially in Romagna, we have the Rosarno family, which deals with recycling, and we do not talk about the cycle of waste and the cycle of cement, on which the mafia bases its trade. All of this is at the expense of legal firms. I wonder, then, since we are talking about relaunching work and the economy, why do we still stop to look at the flexibility of contracts and do not consider self-money laundering and corruption, leaving people at home without a job, without a certain income, without the possibility of having a future and keeping their families. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u28	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u29	Madam President, the delegation of work that we are preparing to face today is certainly a very important measure, which intervenes or at least proposes to intervene on issues crucial to the functioning of the labour market. I think the parliamentary debate that has taken place is very important and I believe that today's passage should also be a useful opportunity for all of us to give directions, messages and suggestions to the Government and to ask that this, present in the Chamber in the qualified person of the Minister of Labour, engage in some passages that remain rather obscure. I would like to stress a key point of the job act, which I particularly care about and on which, precisely for this reason, I call on the Government to make a determined commitment in this House for the respect that this House owes to it. The qualifying point that I strongly recall and support is the construction of a support network that accompanies the worker's entry and re-entry and supports him in case of loss of work. There are two important aspects to this: social shock absorbers and employment centres. As for social shock absorbers, here we play a very important game and not only because we know that the financial coverage is spotted by leopard, but because we know that the crisis is hitting unevenly. It has been years and years of crisis that are increasing inequalities in our country, so engaging on this front is fundamental. This is the fourth time that, as a Parliament, we give a delegation to a Government to go in the direction of the universalization of social shock absorbers and this time it must be the real one. We ask the government to make this a priority and to commit itself here to considering it as such. There is obviously a problem of resources, and in this some positive signal has certainly come from the law of stability and the further increase of resources that have been allocated, amounting to 2.2 billion over 700 million already allocated. These figures are not sufficient for all the delegation, but important for social shock absorbers. What is the government's commitment? What will be the time to implement this part of the delegation which - I stress - is fundamental and which I agree with in its basic approach? I also remember - and just think about it for a moment - that social shock absorbers are called this because they cannot be brought back to a single individual dimension, but they have a collective dimension, because they serve to keep social cohesion in times of difficulty. It is therefore essential that not all the social partners and, in particular, the trade unions, who have a function of representing workers, are excluded from this process of definition and cannot be underestimated at all. Further non-insurance but welfare measures are envisaged in this area when the extension of unemployment endangers the livelihood of the worker and his family. A bridge between social shock absorbers and the fight against poverty. It is essential that this intervention should continue. I recognise that it is very important and that it should, as I said, be a bridge to the policies of poverty which unfortunately have not found a hotel in the law of stability. This is an aspect of strong weakness, which makes me think even back, about this intervention that is foreseen in the delegation that we will vote on today and whose realization must be absolutely a commitment made here by the Government. The choice made with regard to employment services is also very important, with the unification of active functions and policies and passive policies, which I fully support once again. There is, however, no clear plan, Minister. We do not know if this will be done with an agency, with a network structure organized on the territory or, vice versa, if this agency will have only a function of direction in the process that will invest and continue to invest predominantly the Regions. Answering this question is urgent. Here again a priority is called for because, among other things, it interferes with the revision of the functions of the Provinces. We cannot find ourselves without the implementation of this piece of delegation when the Provinces no longer have responsibility for the employment, nor do we know who will take charge of it and to what extent. This design must be realized and soon. This is the sense of delegation that we will give you today. If we do not pay attention to these aspects (and I am silent on time issues, even if, in fact, the issues of conciliation, motherhood and others are very important), if we do not hear clear words here, we do not see clear speeches on this point in the next few days then really the delegation will be reduced to a trivial thing on which an infinite number of interventions have already been carried out such as the redefinition of contractual forms on which even significant progress has been made thanks also to our work. I believe that, precisely because the issues I mentioned are fundamental, it is a real pity that it has been centralized in the discussion, but also in the choices of the last moment of the government (because this topic was not in the original design of the delegation), to the theme of the discipline of dismissals. I think it was a mistake because that choice is not motivated. We have not been told why this choice was made, since the indices of flexibility in our market have absolutely grown and that no serious study has ever been able to show that Article 18 has had an influence on the size of companies. Added to this was the Fornero reform that radically changed the cards on the table. I should like to make two comments on this. What do we know about the Fornero reform? Two things that must help us in the next steps and on which I still strongly question the Minister. What we know from the monitoring of the effects of the reform first tells us that the cases solved by conciliation, therefore without the intervention of the judge, are on the increase. So, I wonder and ask: what role will the protection of workers' right to challenge before a third party body (in particular a judge) the reasons by which the employer motivated his dismissal even if they are economic reasons? This protection is a right which cannot be ignored and is also protected by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. What role will this play? My fear is that when we try to turn this into a right, into a mere right of compensation (also encouraged because maybe it is a greater right than I can obtain with an contradictory one before the third party by conciliation or with the judge), we go to harm a fundamental right: the right not to be at the mercy of the employer's total discretion. I would like to make a suggestion, but also a strong request for clarification. The second point that emerged from the monitoring of the effects of the Fornero reform is that cases of dismissal are increasing (individual ones, of course, because collective redundancies are trivial at a time of crisis) motivated by economic reasons. When discussing the Fornero law, it was already intended to eliminate reintegration into the workplace in the event of economic dismissal. Why did the clause that the reinstatement is possible in the event of manifest non-susistence be inserted? Just to prevent it from becoming the Trojan horse from entering layoffs linked to other reasons and masked. On this point I strongly call for the attention of the Government and possibly a commitment already here. That is my question (which is precisely what we are talking about illegal dismissals because in other cases the speech is anything else): if today a person is fired for economic reasons and the next day another person is taken in the same position, it is probably discriminatory dismissal. What are the chances of asserting one's reasons and obtaining the reinstatement anyway? And who bears the burden of proof? This is the point on which I strongly call for attention, otherwise the rights really are reversed and that is certainly not in the intentions of this Government. I am not blind to the difficulties of entrepreneurs. I understand the serious difficulties associated with the crisis, but I do not even want to believe in a narrative of idyllic relationships because unfortunately it is not so. The terminals we have on the territory tell us what is happening: in the field of the network of equal counselors emerges the signal of the increase, for example, of sexual harassment (which are not prosecuted) because there is a condition of blackmailability. So, you endure with more acquiescence because you are afraid of losing your job. The other - and I conclude - is a fact that must tell us that it is not always such a ritual thing to remember the need to protect workers, which comes from the study that published a month ago on its website, ISTAT, with regard to the survey done on part-time work. From that investigation - it is the ISTAT that speaks - emerges something terrifying: about 40 percent of hours actually worked more than those declared are paid in black. Part-time workers, that is, do more than declared and paid in clear terms, 40 percent of hours and 20 percent of the hours of these fake part-time workers are not paid regularly or at all. This shows us that the labour market relations between workers and employers are - we have known for centuries - characterized by a strong asymmetry. Therefore, the protection of work and the worker must continue to be our polar star. This job act must also be true to this principle. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u30	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u31	Madam President, the first criticism we make to the Government of this debate is the instrument that it has decided to use to deal with a very sensitive and sensitive subject, which concerns the lives of many Italian citizens, namely the delegation law. The delegation law should be an exceptional instrument, because, in itself, it is not a clear indication of the rules that Parliament approves. The delegation law is a trustworthy credit that Parliament gives to the Government on matters that should then be realized through successive decrees. Today work is the main theme that worries Italian families: a job that is not there; a job that goes away losing. Therefore, asking Parliament to vote on a delegated law on this issue is, in itself, a mistake. It would have been necessary a clear provision that gave certainty to workers and families, certainly not a law that - instead - establishes very wide boundaries and subject to interpretations of the most different and that allows the government to reassure, perhaps even when there are great concerns about the future of the decrees that will then be gradually approved. There are no certain elements about the timing and methods of approving these decrees, which should also be many in relation to the whole listing of the measures that are indicated, as in an index, in this bill of delegation. We would have liked to discuss concrete and certain issues and not participate in a debate in which we simply ask ourselves to give confidence. For our part this is virtually impossible: we cannot trust this Government and on a subject of such delicacy. I would also like to make it clear that the debate on Article 18, which seemed to be at the centre of this delegation law, does not enthuse us or even the conflicts between Renzi, CGIL and FIOM: it is all a theatre in which we do not want and do not care to participate. There may be different views on this issue. There is, however, a certainty on our part: this reform will not create a single additional job. This is not the law that can boost employment; it is not the real issue that should have been addressed with priority. Employment problems are linked to excessive labour costs, excessive energy costs, excessive corporate taxation (all enterprises: large and small). These were the issues on which the Government should focus its attention and certainly not on a law delegation of such general content. Companies close and move mainly for the tax burden, certainly not for the labor rules. Another major concern related to this measure is the protection of workers, which is clearly reduced by this measure, creating among workers, especially those of so-called medium-sized and large companies, great uncertainty about their future, the future of their families and the real intentions of their companies, once the implementing decrees have been adopted: whether to keep them in the workplace or make drastic choices that will affect their future. So we are going to touch a very delicate button, without this necessarily creating positive and concrete effects, but creating a state of mind in the country of great concern, serious discomfort and great uncertainty. There is no confidence in politics at this time and therefore to address such a sensitive issue in this way, without certainty, will only increase this concern and this distrust. The problem that really had to be taken up again was, for example, the approval of the Fornero law: a law, from whatever point of view you want to look at it, deeply unfair, because it has lengthened the working time of the workers and in fact has reduced the pension prospects of future generations and those currently working. To work more and to have lower pensions: this, in order to simplify, is the content of the Fornero law, which has been approved, we remember, not by the Holy Spirit, but by a Parliament with a majority PD that is still here to govern and that still asks for confidence on maneuvers of this type, that do not create certainties, but create great concerns. The Fornero law had to be re-discussed, a law that then actually blocked a generational shift in the world of work, because keeping the current employed longer to work, in fact prevents the new generations from entering a job. The revision of this reform would certainly have done justice and would have given greater job prospects than a general law of delegation called jobs act. Social shock absorbers are fine, but the country cannot live from social shock absorbers, pensioners, integrated cash, people who are assisted by the State through social shock absorbers: the real priority is to recreate employment and give the opportunity to those who give work to keep their activities alive and to those who try to have prospects for the future. This goes through a single maneuver: that of a drastic reduction in the tax levy. Everything else revolves around, but does not solve, does not face and does not attack at the root the employment problem. Another area of great concern to us is the harmonization of the system of deductions for dependent spouses. On this subject, which has already been addressed by my colleague, I want to return because harmonizing the deductions of the dependent spouse, in the common interpretation of any citizen, unfortunately does not mean increasing this right, but in fact means reducing or abolishing it. On our concern, we would like clarity and certainty, because a cut in the deductions of the dependent spouse represents, in fact, a cut in the salary and income of single-income families. You can say that as you wish, but this is the concrete result and this would conflict with recent measures such as the famous EUR 80, which have been granted to a small population, which has not seen, among other things, pensioners, who have much lower incomes, in some cases, than those of those who have been assisted with this well-known bonus. The abolition or reduction of the deductions of the dependent spouse will be another very profound injury to the ability of many workers and pensioners to maintain their families. On this the Government glissa, does not intervene, does not clarify and wants a blank delegation to act. It is clear that we cannot support this line of conduct, because the President-in-Office of the Council has now accustomed us to actions as a magician: with one hand he grants 80 euros to some and with the other he takes away without distinction to all, with a thousand other leaps, with a thousand other measures and with a thousand other maneuvers. We do not want this to be one of the many, which goes in addition to those already initiated and which will be implemented by the next law of stability. The government's constant line, in the end, is to go in haste, rush, without deepening, proceeding with delegated laws and votes of confidence, and this because it wants to create in the country the feeling that the real problems are faced and attacked: in reality it goes on with one measure after another, often lacking or poor in content, exclusively to shift the attention of the citizens to a subsequent objective and to avoid that it focuses on the real problems that are there, that are many and not yet absolutely solved. The Democratic Party has been ruling the country continuously for over three years, through the Monti, Letta and Renzi Governments. In this period the reforms we remember - and I think the citizens remember - are called Fornero, IMU, TASI, taxes, jumps, cuts to local authorities and essential minimum services; they are called abolition of the crime of illegal immigration and Mare nostrum. They are not called jobs, jobs and growth. For these reasons we cannot and do not want to give blank delegations to the Renzi Government, to which we do not believe and in which we do not recognize ourselves. That is why our assessment of this measure can only be absolutely critical. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u32	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard so many statements in this House, some enthusiastic about this draft law on labour delegation, others concerned, as I myself am concerned about what this House is about to vote on, both in terms of its content and in terms of its modalities. We have pointed out that the delegations are undefined and that in this way Parliament gives the Government too much power. We have pointed out that this measure has been fired from this House with a vote of confidence that has silenced the Senate and there are today boatos of a new demand for trust, so I fear that this talk of ours is basically a talk on us, which - as I say - is full of anger braking me. This bill is proposed as an improvement of the conditions of precarious workers: we talk about a reduction in the types of precarious work and extended assistance to precarious workers, after the loss of work. In the face of these concessions, however, the Government takes away the possibility of leaving the precarious workers in practice. Why? What is the contract to increasing protections? It's just an indeterminate contract that leaves without protection. Not to mention that the norms that will be approved by the Government with the decrees delegated will go to sum up to what previewed in the decree Poletti that it has eliminated the necessity to specify the causality for the job to fixed time; decree that is nouned in a sort of sanatoria for all those who have given job to fixed time in the last years with insufficient causal ones, because excessively vague. The prospect, however, that is proposed to us by the Government, that according to which the Government and the majority work, is the increase in employment and is flexicurity. But they're virtual instances. Since the development of precarious work in Italy, by the Treu Act, flexible work should have increased employment. On the contrary, it has increased workers' concerns, because the only things it has actually increased are the level of job insecurity and the level of insecurity of the self-employed. In practice, I ask myself - and I invite each of you to ask yourself - with institutionally precarious work for our young people, women and men, when and how can they plan their lives? When will they be able to venture to set up a home and have children? These days, and in this House, I have heard people say with serious seriousness that they would assume the political responsibility to dismantle the Workers' Statute from the foundations. Gentlemen, over the last 40 years the Workers' Statute has allowed employees to say a few nos to their employer. There was talk of harassment in the workplace. The Workers' Statute allowed the worker to stay in the company as a citizen. Therefore, what the Government intends to do, that is to create the conditions for companies to be freely constituted in Italy, because both workers are not essentially defended by anyone anymore, is a kind of perspective that does not fascinate me and frankly terrifies me. On the other hand, returning to the promises to precarious workers, the only thing certain in this bill delegates is the destruction of the rules. The advantages promised are uncertain and to be produced in the future. Now I would like those who are likely to be faced with the crossroads in this House if they say yes to everything or not and are aware of everything and share my vision, which I have outlined now, make an effort to be reckless and take responsibility for their own ideas that are clear in them; ideas that must come before obedience to any organization. In the face of our ideas, in fact, we remain alone and with them we have to deal with them, even before the party. I therefore ask my fellow Members, who share with me the opposition to the institutional precariousness of employee labour, to vote no to this measure, even if they are faced with the blackmail of a matter of trust which I fear will also be raised today. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-SEL Groups and the Senators De Pin and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u34	We greet the students and students of the Lionian High School of Anagni, in the province of Frosinone, to whom we welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u35	Madam President, in this delegation there is more than just the amendment of Rule 18. Another very controversial aspect is paragraph 7 (i), which concerns the abolition of the checks on social security contributions carried out by INPS and INAIL, which, together with the supervision exercised by the Ministry of Labour, are intended to be replaced by a not better specified single inspection agency. Under the pretext of an unavoidable step forward on the path of modernity, progress and renewal, supported by a consolidated and always effective media tactic, the Government is repeating that the creation of the Single Inspection Agency will allow to achieve savings in terms of public expenditure and to increase efficiency, avoiding duplication of inspections by the various bodies and ensuring the least possible disturbance to companies, which will no longer run the risk of being harassed by continuous checks on occupational security and security. But the reality is very different and much less attractive. Firstly, the schizophrenia of an operation which would like to seek to save public money through the creation of a new entity, which will, on the contrary, lead to a certain increase in costs, given the need for new locations, additional means, new organizational structures with consequent multiplication of managerial positions. We must also ask ourselves how essential it is to create a new public entity in order to achieve the aim of avoiding duplication of inspections. It is a species that in the country of the white deaths and of the black work we worry, instead, of the excessive frequency of the controls. In fact, according to the data released by ANIV (the professional association that collects the inspectors of INPS, INAIL and the Ministry of Labour), the statistical possibility that a company is subject to redundant investigations is around 1.3% in the course of a year. In order to avoid this phenomenon, greater coordination between the existing bodies would be sufficient, for example through the creation of a single database, which was already provided for by Legislative Decree No. 124 of 2004, also because other bodies, such as the Revenue Agency and the Finance Guard, also have competences, albeit marginal, for the illicit work. We know that in Italy efficiency has always been the first word used by the legislator, but the last thought of the reformers. It is not difficult to imagine that, precisely through the substantial reduction of controls and the consequent natural increase of the contributory escape and the exploitation of the labour, we intend to give some help to the Italian economy, obviously on the skin of the employees. The question is how the INPS will continue its controls, since it has a complex system run by years of work and rather complex. The financial balance of the INPS is also due to the activity of its inspectors, who in 2013 alone - as evidenced by the Court of Auditors - have established contributions escaped for more than one billion and 200 million euros, as well as having exposed several thousands of scams against the social security system, which, as is known, in certain regions are orchestrated by organized crime. I would remind you that each of these inspectors has recovered on average, over the last ten years, EUR 9.8 million. It is not difficult to imagine that the INPS will have to be satisfied - at best - with the self-liquidation of contributions by employers: in concrete terms, the risk for the Institute is to passively undergo an escape without control. Consequently, there is a doubt that one of the objectives behind the creation of the Single Inspection Agency is precisely to intentionally provoke the default of the public pension institution, thus paving the way for the complete privatisation of the Italian pension system. Moreover, it is easily intuitable that social security savings go to both domestic and foreign speculative capitalism. If, and to what extent, this corresponds to the real interests of the country, which in the current international financial crisis would rather need sound public security, it is a detail of which the unwise and transparent majority does not seem to worry. Thus, together with the amendment of Article 18, the nascent single inspection agency, to the satisfaction of the reassuring promises of savings and efficiency, is nothing more than a further part of the overall program of dismantling the protections of workers in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u36	Senator Serafini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u37	Madam President, we have been talking about this measure for several months now. I don't want to be repetitive, so I'm just making brief remarks. For the sake of political clarity, this law cannot be understood as a rule that will increase employment: in fact, it is only through a development policy that new jobs are created. Nor, on the other hand, can it be understood as an instrument for the cancellation of workers' rights, because no one intends to undermine the principle of the nullity of dismissals made for discriminatory purposes, in the absence of essential formalities and for illegal reasons. But let's get to the point. Let us not forget a more than based reasoning on a delegation to legislate which appears very general and can justify unsubstantiated doubts, but which will be dealt with when the texts of the decrees on which Parliament will have to give an opinion are known. It is true that the stated objective, which is certainly acceptable, is to start a virtuous mechanism with the contract to increasing protections, but everything remains to be established, in an objectively confused regulatory framework, with regard to the modalities and plurality of the types of recruitment, which must be really convincing and in such a way as to encourage entrepreneurs to give preference to the hiring indefinitely. Moreover, the same part of the law amending Article 18, if it explicitly introduces the choice of compensation for the employer at least for dismissals for economic reasons, as regards disciplinary dismissals leaves wide scope for the discretion of the judges. Members and senators are delegated by the people to legislate, so they must always seek a fair balance when dealing with issues of great sensitivity. Work is certainly one of the most important and delicate problems in our country. It is true that since 1970 the world of work has changed, and not only that. For this reason, politics, on issues of great interest, must be a protagonist and also a mediator with the social partners involved, respecting their roles. Too many shadows weigh on the formulation of this law delegation, in form and content, to express a consensus on the basis of simple political declarations of the Government in relation to the text of the future decrees. The decrees that the Government is about to issue must first open a confrontation with the social partners, in order to avoid protests of the streets that can generate conflicts that are not desirable at this delicate moment for our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Albertini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u38	She's enlisted to speak Senator Spilabotte. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation law for labour reform is the answer to what is now the most pungent point of social distress: the critical situation in the labour market. For several months, this measure has been the protagonist in the Senate and Chamber Committees, as well as in Parliament's classrooms. I therefore thank the Government for the choice of a delegation law that has allowed a wide debate and comparison, and therefore a significant improvement compared to the original text. It was a great job and a great battle carried out by our Group, that of the PD, which produced several results. The House sacrificed itself to the debate by addressing and examining the amendments in a very short time. Results, I said, like: the introduction of the minimum hourly compensation only for workers who do not have a reference employment contract, a formula that extends the idea of the dignity of remuneration to those who, unfortunately, do not have the possibility of having employment contracts; the maintenance, in case of change of job, of the perceived pay (to maintain the job, perhaps with a change of job, thus protecting also the compensation); the choice to make more convenient the hirings to indeterminate time through the contract to increasing safeguards, where it is also provided the possibility of reintegrating in the case of discriminatory dismissals, null and disciplinary (it has thus exceeded the form of precarious work that is nailing an entire generation, thus affirming the centrality of the work to indefinite time); and then the confirmation of the plafond for the vouchers of 5,000 euros per year as regards seasonal and occasional work. Without forgetting, Madam President, the battle done, first in the Senate and then in the House, by the parliamentarians of different groups on the subject of the resignation in white: we will also have in the implementing decrees a certification of the genuine signature of the worker to combat the barbarity of the resignation in white. As well as the introduction of leave for women included in the protection pathways related to gender violence. In addition, I think it was important to change a formula that existed in the delegation, that of support for parenthood, replaced by the formula "support for parental care": this is a more innovative scheme, which widens the potential of the defense of the weakest people. Among other important points I would like to point out the remote control of installations and working tools - and not of people - and the maintenance of the integration fund, where the company has ceased, for various reasons, to be able to resume its activity. Universalisation is particularly important for ASPI, with income support in the event of unemployment for those without it today, in particular for the many young people involved in atypical and unsubordinate work. It is estimated that about 300,000 more people will be able to benefit from this subsidy today. They therefore increase the quantity and duration of this measure, bringing it to the level of the most advanced European standards. A social benefit is also provided for situations of involuntary unemployment with low incomes, once the ASPI has run out, with the obligation of activation to seek work. It should be recalled, ladies and gentlemen, that the Stability Act for 2015 contains several measures that will immediately apply the content of the delegation law. Manovra is a qualified expansion, Minister Padoan called it. In particular, they are expected: a strong incentive, for 2015, for the new hirings with the new contract indefinitely, through the total decontribution for three years, for an annual value of 1.9 billion euros; the cancellation of the IRAP taxation related to work, committing resources for 2.7 billion euros; the allocation of 1.7 billion euros to support the reform of the social shock absorbers, in particular to make universal the ASPI and increase its duration; the definitive confirmation of the 80 euros per month for 11 million employees, with an annual income up to 26,000 euros (this is the key measure of the law of stability); and then there is the decision to assume in role, from September 2015, as many as 150,000 teachers, committing 1,2 billion euros. We are talking, therefore, about a reduction of taxes and contributions on companies and families that no government has ever operated in this dimension, of a measure that will contribute, in a substantial and substantial way, to halt a recession that has been living in our country for years, emphasizing a commitment made by the Government, that is to extend the network of social shock absorbers. The aim of the jobs act is therefore to improve the lives of workers and to promote social cohesion. That is why I take this opportunity to remind you that on our part, in the whole of Parliament, there is a full awareness of not having to discredit the role of the unions, of what they represent, of their work, keeping alive the willingness to confront merit. Unfortunately, however, a frontal opposition is not understandable and poorly motivated through the general strike called by important members of confederal unionism, with the explicit objective of countering and blocking labour reform and the law of stability. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have played a crucial and decisive role in the adoption of this delegation law, all the members of the 11th Commission, the President, Senator Maurizio Sacconi, rapporteur for the text at first reading, and Senator Ichino, rapporteur for the second passage in the Senate. I would like to thank Mr Poletti and, in particular, Ms Bellanova, who made an important contribution during the debate in the Commission. The convinced motivation for the validity of this measure is not based on an abstract or ideological position, but on the conviction that we have done our job, our job, because our job is to make laws and, by making laws, we want to improve the conditions of real, concrete people, of men and women who are suffering a crisis, a lack of future, a concern for them, for their families and for their children. We do our job and the country will be grateful and the distance between us and the real country can finally shorten. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u40	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u41	Madam President, I too would like to thank my colleagues who took part in this debate, making a very important contribution to the discussion and deepening of each of the many aspects of this measure which is so important for the near future of our country. I also thank the offices that have assisted our work with great attention and efficiency, as always. (The sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m. and resumed at 11.40 a.m.) I would like to respond quickly to the objections that have been raised to the draft law delegation point by point, referring first of all to what has been said in this report. Yesterday, Senator Tonini spoke about the criticism of the excessive generality of the delegation and, therefore, the proposed censorship of unconstitutionality due to the lack of precision of the principles of the delegation itself. The criticism that comes from some other interventions, in particular those of Senator D'Adda and Senator De Cristofaro, concerns the point of the so-called "new dualism": it is said that this law wants to overcome an old dualism, but creates a new one. It's not like that. The old dualism, what we have before us and which characterizes the labour market today, is the dualism between protected workers and workers little or nothing protected. What will result from this reform is, of course, a transitional presence of two protection systems: an old one and a new one, which we consider preferable to the old one, even from the point of view of the worker's economic and professional safety. The new is preferable not only because one overcomes a protection regime which by its nature produces exclusion. The old regime, in fact - it has been seen through decades of experience - cannot be extended to the entire workforce because it is not accidentally but intrinsically productive of dualism, i.e. the exclusion of a part of the labour force. Moreover, the old system, based on the plastering of the working relationship, puts the worker himself who enjoys this protection at serious risk when the plaster melts because the shower arrives. The workers, although protected by Article 18, but not protected in the labour market, after the cessation of activity, the closure of the department by the company, finished a period of social shock absorbers without hope, because they are not assisted by serious intensive care services in the search for the new job, able to guide the worker, in the course of retraining necessary to occupy the new jobs, which also exist in this period of serious crisis. Let us not forget that there are now half a million jobs in Italy which remain permanently uncovered due to a lack of labour with the qualifications required. This is one of the most serious inefficiency of the old protection regime, where it shows its inadequacy. As some have said, the new system of protection is not intended to protect the worker from the labour market, but is intended to defend him precisely in the labour market, to give him security in the transition from the old to the new employment: a transition that will be more and more frequent in the working life of the next generations. 11:45 a.m. (The rapporteur was Mr Ichino). The latter is the best answer to those who, on the other hand, argued that in this transition from the old to the new system the dignity and freedom of workers would be at stake. That is what Mr Ricchiuti and Mrs Paglini have said, and I have also heard a sense of concern on this point in the speeches by Mrs Gatti and Mr Guerra. But I ask them, and Mrs Pezzopane has also asked this here: all the young people (often the best among our children and grandchildren) who seek abroad the work they do not find in Italy perhaps go abroad to look for Article 18. Certainly not. That's not what they're looking for, not least because they know they wouldn't find him anywhere. On the other hand, to argue that without Article 18 there is no dignity and freedom of the worker means to argue that, not only four million Italian employees (all employees of companies with less than 15 employees, all managers, employees of trade unions and parties, employees of our parliamentary groups) would be deprived of their dignity and freedom: a statement that nobody does because it would be obvious senseless; but it would be tantamount to saying that without dignity and freedom there are also 200 million employees throughout Europe. Apparently, that's not the case. The dignity and freedom of the worker is not given by the cast of the employment relationship, but by the security that the worker must have, and that we must be able to guarantee, much better than we guarantee today, even to those protected according to the old paradigm: the safety that, if the job fails, this will not mark an economic or professional (or economic and professional) catastrophe for the worker and his family. This is the fundamental aim of this reform. With reference always to the interventions of Senator Gatti and Senator Ricchiuti, we object, to this perspective, that in Italy there is no work. There is no doubt that in Italy the demand for work is too weak and that it must be reinvigorated. However, in the current economic situation, the only lever we have to reinvigorate labour demand is to reopen the door to foreign investment. It means that we have closed down, if it is true that Italy has been far below the European average for years because of its ability to attract foreign investment. Foreign investment, of course, is not only hindered by the peculiarities of our working order: it also weighs the tax burden and the inefficiency of the administrations. But there is no doubt that even the negative peculiarities of our labour system and the dysfunctions of our labour market weigh in obstructing foreign investment. We must realise that even in times of serious crisis such as the one we are going through, there are significant flows of demand and labour supply in Italy from which the new generations are totally excluded because of a very serious defect in educational and vocational guidance services: a defect which is the main explanation of the difference between the youth unemployment rate at 43% and the general unemployment rate at 13%. Today the unemployed do not access these flows because they are accessible flows only on the basis of parental, friendly and professional networks. Those who do not have these networks do not have access to those 800,000 meetings between demand and supply of work that take place every month in our country also in this period of black crisis, according to the data of the obligatory Communications to the Ministry of Labour. When I hear Mrs Paglini very fittingly recall the principle that everyone is born free and equal, I note that in our labour market there are no such freedoms and equality: those who have parental, friendly and professional networks feed the flows of encounter between demand and supply of work, those who do not have those networks have no help from the centres for employment, except for special cases, rare and isolated, of efficiency in achieving the encounter between supply and demand. Senator Gatti doesn't like advertising private agencies. It is a choice, the one we are making, not to delegate a public function to the private sector, but to enhance in this function the specialised agencies, the companies that know the demand and know how to accompany the worker where the work is. They are companies that are able to carry out the work that today, as we have to honestly see, the employment centers mostly do not know how to carry out; also because in a modern labour market, strongly segmented and specialized in each sector, knowing the demand implies having not only specific skills sector by sector, but also the ability to adapt the grid of reading of the demand and the supply of work in a continuous way: what public structures by their nature cannot do. We therefore aim - and this is also a choice we are making - to restore centrality to the employment centre, entrusting the public structure with the task of communicating the worker with the services he can have; and then we commit those who want to cooperate with the public service to respect its fundamental principles, namely transparency and impartiality. When the specialised private structure adopts these principles, it agrees to operate within this framework and under the control of the public structure, there is no reason to be wary of this cooperation. I think Senator Bencini is right when she denounces, even talking about "scandal" in this regard, the serious inefficiency of our system of worker assistance in the labour market. With overall unemployment at 13% and youth unemployment at 43% there are huge employment deposits that we leave unused, while every year in Italy they close 20,000 artisan enterprises for the age limits of the owner, without being able to transfer to the new generations the specific know-how and commercial start-up: this is really a scandal. We must move on from this situation in every way! Anyone who cares about interests in every way must overcome this situation. We must in every way ensure that, from here on, these jobs are no longer wasted. In this regard, Senator Munerato says that standards must be set and that they must be respected by the structures that serve as market assistance. It is precisely the function that we want to entrust to the new National Agency for Employment Services, that is to set the benchmark: to set the requirements for efficiency and effectiveness that must be respected by all regions. This is something that we have not done so far and which is the basis of the very serious inefficiency and not productivity of employment services in too many regions (not in all, fortunately, but certainly in too many Italian regions). It is then necessary to monitor its respect and, where the Region is unable to comply with the standard, to take over it in order to carry out that function. Senator Gaetti fears that the Agency will result in increased spending. The objective, of course, is the opposite: to retrain public spending in this area. Today, it is too low in itself: we must adjust our spending on active labour policies to the European average. But our low spending on this chapter is of bad quality. We urgently need to retrain it; this is the commitment that the new Agency will make by setting measurable targets for redeployment of expenditure on this area. To some extent the same applies to the question of resources for social shock absorbers. Today we spend more than 20 billion on passive labour policies, i.e. on income support for those who lose their jobs, without any control over the availability of the worker and his involvement in the labour market, with the result of an absolutely unnatural expansion of periods of unemployment corresponding to the length of the income support period. On the other hand, we must retrain this expenditure and bring income support back to that close conjugation with measures for the reintegration of the worker into the productive fabric that is lacking today. With this I also respond to the sacrosanct concern expressed by Senator Fornaro. This should not be limited to the insurance part of the support. Here I fully welcome - indeed, the same bill does - the solicitation of Senator Guerra: those who cannot find work within the insured period need to have modern support, closely linked to the measures for reintegration into the productive fabric. However, we will never be able to set up this minimum income if we are not able to do the reintegration. We don't know how to do that today. Everything we are doing to give ourselves this capacity, which the other countries of Central and Northern Europe have to a far greater extent than we do, is also a prerequisite for resolving the problem and implementing the chapter of minimum income. Let me turn to the last point: the interventions of Senator Malan and Senator Pelino express the concern that the abolition of the contract figure of the project collaborator may generate unemployment. Let us be very clear here: there is no doubt that understanding is not to stiffen the labour market by producing unemployment, but rather the opposite: we want greater flexibility in the labour market and production structures, offset by strong support for workers in the market. But all this must never lead to unemployment. Now there are two cases: either the protection that we establish or that we maintain in our labour order is capable of extending and actually applying to all workers, that is to say to be universal, and then it is a protection that can usefully serve to correct the distortions of the labour market and it is right that it applies to all workers in a position of substantial dependence on the employer. Or this protection generates unemployment, that is, it is incompatible with the balance between demand and supply in the labour market, and then it is an instrument at the service of the insiders against the interest of the outsiders, in this case that protection must be corrected. Because the law can't take over without violating the Constitution. This is the fundamental principle to which we must also, of course, stick when implementing the delegation, in the framework of delegated decrees. I hope that I have responded to all the major criticisms and objections that have been raised and I apologise to my colleagues who I have not been able to mention, but I have tried to group the speeches for these chapters in order to articulate my answers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u42	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank all the senators who have spoken in this debate and I would like to thank Parliament - the House and the Senate - for the work it has done, because I think it should be made clear that the text that comes to the conclusion of this debate is a text that has been significantly changed and significantly improved. I therefore believe that this is a fact which must be taken up and recognised, because it is the recognition of the work that Parliament has done and that the Government welcomes. The government has thought and thinks that the topic of work is one of the essential issues, if not the essential question, on which we must act today in order to reverse a situation of fact that has been realized in this long period of crisis that our country is going through. We can discuss the numbers of unemployment, employment, the unemployed or the inactive, we can reflect on how these figures should be interpreted, but today we are faced with a fact, which is that of a very serious crisis, a situation of stalemate in our country and a fall in investment, domestic consumption and employment. This is the result of many years, and today we are all right to ask ourselves all very concerned, starting with the Government, about the state of things, but we must also note that this is the result of this situation and today we must act so that this situation changes and changes radically. Our choice, then, was to start with our position in Europe, because we have begun to work hard to change Europe's attitude. Today this is almost taken for granted, it seems an assumed fact, but it is not. Until a few months ago, it would not have been taken for granted to talk about things as we are talking about them today, to discuss the Juncker plan, to discuss the Italian law of stability, which was built from an idea different from the one that historically had been built, reflecting on the possibility of using the Treaties fully, and therefore not changing them but using them, because things change over time and you have to have the ability to use the potential that within the Treaties there are. Therefore, it is not necessary to present itself with the hat in hand, but with the responsibility, commitment and coherence that a country as large and important as Italy has within the European dynamic, with the idea that, if Europe does not change its policies, the problem is not and will not be only of Italy, but of Europe, of the general perspective and of the positioning of Europe within the global scenario. We have therefore made this choice, linking the current stability law to it, which recovers resources, cuts taxes, makes available a reduction in the tax wedge, reduces the cost of labour for businesses, giving them a greater ability to compete. Of course, it is the responsibility of companies to invest, to stay on the markets and to innovate products, but this is a necessary condition. I believe that what we have made is in any case a right and important choice, a complete choice - and I do not want to dwell on this - by working on a very wide range of reforms, because we are deeply convinced that the exit from the situation in which our country is today will not be possible unless we achieve all the reforms that we have put on the agenda. It is clear that it will not be the rules that produce jobs: in all honesty, it seems to me a rather baseless debate. The rules are the framework, context and condition in which the actors act. From this point of view we have a problem, which must be said very clearly: about the enterprise then we can discuss, because I do not have a romantic vision and I do not think that the enterprise is made of roses and flowers and people who caress. However, we must understand ourselves: in our country, the company, which for the way in which it works and for its typicality must take risks and make assessments in a context of uncertainty, must however be able to report the context of uncertainty in which it moves to its typical actions, that is, knowing what happens on the market, what their competitors do, what happens on the cost of raw materials. This is the point of uncertainty typical of the enterprise. When, so to speak, quotas of uncertainty are added to the enterprise, which are not typical of its function, from a bad functioning of the judicial system or from the rules of the labour market that are not defined and uncertain and of which the final outcome is not known - just to mention some critical issues, but we could mention the bureaucracy, rather than the time for the release of the authorizations - a figure of inhibition is produced at that point which, we must know, will then be dumped on the workers, because there will be no job opportunities. This country has to get out of a binomial that is clear today. Italy for a certain phase has in some way caressed the annuities instead of strongly choosing the politics of being at the side and rewarding the opportunities, and doing so is not easy at all, because the annuities are many, different, small and large and tend to support each other. To intervene in order to change this situation, therefore, is and will be an absolutely important effort, but we must do so if we really want to increase opportunities, because this is what we must do for our young people, for the unemployed and for all those who need to try to take an important step forward. Our idea is certainly not the one for which the rules will change and produce jobs, but we are convinced that a good environment increases opportunities and that therefore within a better context there is the possibility of promoting a further phase of growth. On this side, I think we should also ask ourselves a question. Historically, Italy has a lower employment rate than the European average. Even when Italy reached the highest levels of employment, it remained 5, 6 or 7 points below the level of employment of many other European countries. Here the issue concerns the North and the South; it concerns social facilities; it concerns social policies, and this is another issue that the country faces. I am convinced and aware that there is a need to change on this side too. We have never built in our country a social policy with a general function, capable of dealing with these needs. And when we talk about female employment, thirty seconds later we have to talk about services and so on. That is what we need to talk about, otherwise the employment rate will continue to be historically and systematically lower. But having a stable employment rate lower means producing less wealth, having less opportunity, having less propulsion for the future. So, that's the theme we're looking at. With regard to this issue, I believe that the reflection we have initiated should try to respond to the general issues and to do so for the part that falls under the delegation law. I will not go back to all the issues of the bill, having been widely discussed and repeatedly discussed. I just want to speak on a few issues, also to try to clarify the meaning of the choices made. I don't think this delegation law is too vague or you don't understand what you want to do. Sometimes I think I can say that it has been made too partial a reading, in the sense that everyone has taken the small piece that he needed to support his own thesis. On the contrary, we must read everything that is written in all its parts, the points of balance, which also respond to concerns that I have heard here and that are also my concerns. We do not want to destroy who knows what or harm the rights of workers: it is out of our way of thinking and dealing with matters. But if we read completely what we have written within the measure, we will find points of balance with respect to the need to have a dynamic dimension of the action of the enterprise, but also the protection of the rights and living conditions of the workers. The effort that is supported is as follows: one must not think that balance is resolved by holding things as they are. Balance is solved by building something new that is balanced. This is the passage, the effort we want to make, and on this we have to ask ourselves some questions and give us some answers. Why have we never done anything about active policies and social shock absorbers? Today we say we agree, I agree, but my question is: how did we get here? Why didn't we make the choice to invest in employment services? Why have we founded an essential part of the intervention basically through monetary transfers? This is the theme. On the other hand, why have we not been able to build an instrument which, socially speaking, combats iniquities? In fact, within this crisis there has also been the situation that those who have the most have even more and those who have the least have even less. We have a problem of combating poverty in this country: we need to build instruments that act on this side too. We must know, therefore, that this change brings into play a fundamental part of the logics that we have used. It is clear that if we evaluate only the fact that the shock absorber gives me an extra euro or less, if it lasts an extra day or one less, we will always remain within the old logic. If, on the other hand, we also put what happens on the day I leave a situation where my work is no longer and out of the door I find a system of services capable of taking charge of that condition and helping me deal with what to do and how to do it, then we can probably find another point of balance, which is not exactly that of the past, but that is what we want to do. So, we reason in terms of the extension of the covers. We reason in terms of inclusion and not exclusion. We reason in terms of responsibility, because we want every citizen to feel and be in a position to be responsible also to the temporary condition of not having a job and, therefore, to be put in a position to take this step. From this point of view I feel like giving an answer: we legitimately ask for resources in relation to social shock absorbers and their extension. I believe that the resources set aside in the Stability Act are fundamentally close to the need to address the issue we are facing. In fact, two billion euros were posted, which were increased by 200 million euros for 2015 and 2016, and we have the Employment Fund worth one billion 400 million euros, within which 700 million euros are posted for social shock absorbers by way of derogation. However - we must tell ourselves - on the social shock absorbers by way of derogation we have approved a decree-law that has tightened the terms of usability of this instrument. The social shock absorbers, in fact, which were a response to the social drama exploded with the crisis six, seven, eight years ago, in time, being a derogation, and therefore with few rules, have given rise to behaviors that are not always virtuous and consistent. And since they are financed with community money, with taxes, I think it is right, necessary and necessary to go and define a good use of them on time. Moreover, the rule provides that the social shock absorbers by way of derogation, as time passes, will run out of their function. Therefore, I believe that in terms of resources we are close to the need to cover the need, stated and which we intend to achieve, to extend the same social shock absorbers. A second issue that I would like to address very quickly is the issue of precariousness, the permanent contract of increasing protection and the problems relating to this context. From this point of view we must start from a fact, that is to say photography, today, of the reality of the labour market in our country. Out of 100 start-ups (start-ups, not jobs) today we have 85 start-ups with fixed-term contracts and all other similar types and 15 open-ended. I believe that the statement contained in the delegation, which wants to make the contract indefinitely the key to the new situation, must be made possible, and in order to do this we need a more flexible, open and manageable rule on the regulatory level and a given economic convenience. Otherwise the fact is not what will happen, it is not the fear of what will happen, because we must ask ourselves what has already happened today. Today, the plurality of these types of contract and the fact that they are economically inconsistent has provoked a cannibalization, in the sense that many companies compete with each other not in the improvement of the quality of the product, of the efficiency, of the effectiveness and so on, but in a chase aimed at capturing the most economic type of contract. But if we let this happen, our country's business system will not improve in its global competitive capacity, it will have more and more problems. Therefore, here too we need to give a place for comparison and competition between companies that take place on the true level of competition and not on the downward pursuit of the most competitive contractual types in terms of flexibility and cost, which is what has actually happened in recent years. So, this is the situation that needs to be changed. This is the choice that we have made and want to make and which is confirmed by two irrefutable elements. We have decided to allocate EUR 1.9 billion in the Stability Act for the decontribution, for the first three years, of permanent contracts and we have decided to reduce the IRAP tax base on the labour costs of permanent contracts. It seems to me that if a clear sign was needed of this Government's willingness to go in the direction of the contract indefinitely, these two signs are absolutely unequivocal. I believe that this is a ground that says in very clear terms what our wills and commitments are. On this side, as in general on the subject from which I started, we have listened to different positions on the social level. Trade unions and business representation organisations have expressed their views and opinions, and a general strike is planned. I believe that from this point of view what we have to say is that we are respectful of the responsibility that each individual assumes in playing his or her role. It is important to listen, to reflect, to take into account the position of a representative association or a trade union. Having said that, I believe that on the other hand the Government and Parliament have a duty to take their own decisions, to make responsibly the choices that are entrusted to them and to be able to carry out the choices made, because these are the things that serve our country. I have not many other comments to make to you, except to reiterate one fact: the Italian Government assigns to the approval of the draft law delegation in the matter of work an essential importance. I have started from this point and I shall conclude my speech on this point. We are convinced and aware that on this ground we measure the effective possibility of the Government and the majority to produce a necessary change for our country. This is a difficult passage, full of tensions and difficulties; we know, we understand it, but we also know that on many of the contents of this bill there is consensus and sharing: I am talking about the extension of social shock absorbers and their reform, active policies for work and employability, the revision and simplification of the rules, the revision of the contractual types, the permanent contract for increasing protection, the protection of parenthood and policies for women's employment, the coordination of the inspection activities of the Single Agency. In drafting the decrees, the Government will be able to take proper account of the work that has been done in Parliament and the positions that have been expressed. In the truly gigantic work of changing our country there is a commitment and responsibility for all. I think everyone can and should do their part, and I don't think there's anyone who can honestly claim to be right and to have done everything they had to do. I opened my speech from the dramatic awareness of gravity and centrality in our country of work for our young people, for all of us and, in the first place, for the Government. Changing this situation is the goal we have set ourselves and we are working very hard in this direction. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, with the permission of the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the approval of the single article of bill No 1428-B, in the text already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments and ironic applause from the M5S, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u44	The Presidency takes note of the government's position on the matter of trust. The Conference of Leaders is therefore convened immediately to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting until the end of the Conference. (The sitting was suspended at 12.23 p.m. and resumed at 13.22 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u45	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the draft law of delegation of work, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. It also approved by a majority changes to this week's timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 18 December. The general discussion on confidence, for which 2 hours and 40 minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the groups, will begin at 3 p.m. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 7 p.m. During the debate on confidence, the Budget Commission is authorised to convene. The arguments already foreseen in the current week's calendar, with the following order, are confirmed: documents defined by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys; draft law on the return of capital held abroad, where concluded by the Commissions; norms against organ trafficking; draft law made by the Mixed Group on the identification of the Forces of Order. At tomorrow's single sitting, the Presidency will make its communications on the content of the draft Stability Act, pursuant to Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure as soon as the evaluations of the 5th Permanent Commission have been received. From then on the budget session will begin, for which the following timetable has been defined. Next week will be devoted entirely to the work of the Commissions, which will have to submit their reports to the Budget Commission by Thursday 11 December. The Assembly will meet again from Tuesday 16 December, at 12 noon, for the discussion of the draft stability and budget laws. On Tuesday 16 December, from 2 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers' communications on the European Council of 18 December 2014 will take place. At the end of the debate, for which time was allocated among the Groups, guidance instruments could be voted on. With regard to the single meetings provided for in the timetable, the Presidency may provide for suspensions in relation to the progress of its work. In addition, the proposal to extend the duration of the Committee of Inquiry into intimidation against local administrators was referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its deliberations, with the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission. The aforementioned Commissions were authorized to convene immediately for the examination of the measure. The Heads of Group agreed unanimously to authorise the Commissions themselves to include the document on the agenda during the budget session as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have not voted on this timetable for a very simple reason: we have been calling for months, as an opposition, for compliance with the rule of the Rules of Procedure which provides for automatic inclusion on the calendar and on the agenda of the Opposition's own House of Drafts of Law. Mr President, after several referrals, as you know, the draft law No 803 on the identification of members of the Forces of Order, which is being examined in the Commission and of which a basic text has already been adopted, had finally been included in the timetable. The deadline for tabling amendments has also expired. Now, what happened for the umpteenth time? According to the timetable you have just read, tomorrow we will look at the Junta's election papers. In this way, the bill on organ trafficking, which had already been incardinated, will also slip. In fact, tomorrow morning, after the vote on the documents of the Assembly for the elections, there will be the Presidency's communications on the content of the draft Stability Act as soon as the evaluations of the Budget Commission have been received and, therefore, the budgetary session will officially open. Therefore, the commitment to finally discuss the draft laws of the opposition in the Chamber, using the argument of the stability law (but it could be otherwise) is completely frustrated. Mr President, we come here to vote for confidence whenever there is any measure. We do it once a week on pretty much everything. The draft laws which also come from the House - I am thinking of last week's debate on environmental crimes - arrive in the Chamber but are not discussed. The opposition's bill of law for one reason or another slips. Then, really, sometimes, I wonder what the legislative function of this Parliament and this House is. For the umpteenth time also this bill, which may or may not please, will be postponed. I want to denounce the serious thing that happened yesterday in the Committee on Institutional Affairs: yesterday we could have voted on the mandate to the rapporteur for the measure on the identification of the Forces of Order and quietly incardinating it tomorrow or, perhaps, today. Instead, the government has even announced amendments to the House (when the measure arrives) that have appeared as a sort of declaration of identification of citizens. I don't know if the government was going to open the trademark practice on the citizens' front with the ID number, but I'm here denouncing a frankly incomprehensible and obstructive attitude. The government had the opportunity to reason and present its amendments yesterday, and could do so even in the previous days. We are talking about rules that are in force in many countries, in many European states, and are therefore norms of civilization for a democratic country. Therefore, we interpret the attitude of the Government, and the consequences that derive today from the meeting of the Leaders, as a clear attempt at obstructionism aimed at totally affecting the contents of the bill itself. By the way, the identification of citizens, as you know, Mr President, is possible at any time. There are rules that prohibit misrepresentation during demonstrations. The government has even announced other rules on delayed arrests, as if those approved even in the law against stadium violence were not enough. We believe that, in the end, the two measures, which were of great interest, such as that on the traffic of organs and also that of the opposition on the identification of members of the Forces of Order, will once again slip. Then there is a question of principle. The majority cannot have the prerogatives and rights of the opposition. When the opposition indicates a bill (for example, oppositions have indicated the bill on negationism), this is not at the disposal of the majority, because still, formally, the dictatorship of the majority is not in force (later, from a political point of view, the reality is different). Therefore, I would ask that, with regard to tomorrow's sitting, the timetable previously voted, with the discussion of the draft law on the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation, following the draft law laying down provisions on the emergence and return of capital held abroad, the draft law laying down provisions on the identification of members of the Forces of Order and the discussion of documents of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, remain in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u51	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, what we wanted to say was more or less said by Senator De Petris, because we share the problem. For two years now we have been waiting for the right, recognised by the Rules of Procedure, to be able to discuss the draft laws of the opposition. Honestly, it is unacceptable to delay this right every time in a Parliament that is still formally democratic. So we too are asking for the previous timetable to be restored as a sign that we are trying to restore some legitimacy in this Parliament. This Parliament absolutely needs it, the oppositions absolutely need it. If they do not recognize their rights to opposition, these, placed at the corner, will react badly. But this happens in any context. Therefore, the Government's apology for technical problems, absolutely incomprehensible, denotes yet another difficulty for this Government to vote on useful laws such as this concerning the Forces of Order, as it is divisive for the Government. So in fact it happened for all the bills that concerned civil rights, such as this one that concerns the Forces of Order. Among other things, they are all absolutely non-divisive issues in society, because they go to safeguard all citizens, not yet branded by the Government (to be recognizable, in fact, just ask for the identity card), to protect the policemen who behave honestly and who, therefore, have nothing to fear. In fact, they themselves make this request. So let's make it clear to the Italian people and let's say that there are no technical problems, there are problems of majority and government! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u52	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u53	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). We're asking for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u54	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the agenda of the president's session. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of proceedings, made by Senators De Petris and Airola. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u57	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, at yesterday's afternoon sitting I asked Vice-President Calderoli to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the widespread practice of putting the question of trust on the part of the Government before the senators can propose the request not to move to the examination of the articles. Incidentally, I thank the government, whose representative I see is leaving. It is a squalid affair, not so much because of the disagreement that arises every time, but because of the fact that there is an inertia in this matter, a drop in the things that allow the perpetuation of behavior. Today we have seen Mr Poletti put the question of trust in some way by confirming the principle that one phase is closed with the general discussion and another one is opened. However, implicitly, Minister Poletti made two speeches in one, closing the general discussion and moving on to the next phase, once again preventing us from exercising our prerogative. I received from Vice President Calderoli assurances that you would be informed of my request yesterday, but I have not yet received an answer. Once again we are faced with a situation that is perpetuating itself. I would ask you kindly if you would inform us of your decision regarding the reminder of the convening of the Council for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u58	I take note of this request and will evaluate it for the purpose of convening the Council for the Rules of Procedure, along with many other issues which have been put to the attention of the Council. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Maybe before the end of the legislature!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u61	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I rise to ask for the answer to question 4-02458, published on 9 July 2014, in which we questioned the Minister of the Interior without getting an answer, as has happened with so many questions, on the subject of reception centres, in particular by asking what were the reasons for derogating from the laws and procedures regarding the reception centre in Velletri. 37 arrests have been made, 100 people have been investigated in an illegal system and we read chilling interceptions such as the following: More money is earned by immigration than by drug trafficking. From the Minister of the Interior never comes an answer, or maybe he was already aware of this state of lawlessness and therefore perhaps the answer did not have it or, at least, did not have a decent answer. Over the last few years there has been talk of one and a half billion euros spent on immigration: a mountain of money managed in an absolutely inadequate way and, at this point, criminal. The founding values of democracy provide that when Parliament questions the Government should answer not niche and hide the dust under the carpet. Priebke, the garbage and now the reception centers: billions of euros that go up in smoke and damage our territory of the Castles with bad policies. In this regard, also since the need to discuss draft laws of the opposition has been invoked, I would like to call for the incardination (at least the allocation to the competent Commission) of the bill of my own initiative known as Act of the Senate No 1603. This bill is aimed at harmonising the right of asylum, which would perhaps solve the emergency situations on which our regional and local politicians are lucrating. I would therefore urge both the conduct of the question and the allocation of the draft law to the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u64	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am here to ask you two questions: to be exact, Act 3-00366, published on 17 September 2013, and Act 4-03074, of 25 November 2014. Mr President, these numbers mean little. I am sure I find you the right person to raise awareness in this particular case of the Ministers for the Interior and Justice to answer two questions concerning the Sicilian urologist Attilio Misses. Mr President, these are simple questions. Ministers can immediately respond to a family - the Missing Family - and to so many people who have been following this incredible case for almost ten years now. In the previous version of the question 4-03074 there was less data. Now I've presented an act with five specific pages. Unbelievable is happening. Consider that the family did not have the opportunity to become a civilian in the process that will soon take place. Consider that Attorney Ingroia has been sued for slander for having pronounced, during the investigation of the same, some sentences. I do not forget, President Grasso, even his previous position, which was that of national prosecutor anti-mafia. I am sure you will be able to raise awareness of the Ministers in question in order to get an answer. I ask you another thing, President Grasso, because, while she was in those functions, she had to say to the family: find me the evidence (he also said it in some interviews). Mr President, this evidence is probably there now. Perhaps it would be appropriate not to leave the family alone and, perhaps, for you, as President of the Senate, an important gesture would be to be able to feel within this institution that you represent the Missing Family today. So, I ask you if you could kindly welcome Mr. and Mrs. Misses to hear what their motives are. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u67	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 August 2014, a company requested the start of the authorization procedure for a waste treatment site and annexed landfill in the Municipality of Bergantino, in the Province of Rovigo, with a series of requests from the Veneto Region, the Province of Rovigo, the Municipality of Bergantino, the ARPAV and the Adige-Po reclamation consortium. The company, formed ad hoc a few weeks earlier, is called Bergantino Srl, but actually has its headquarters in Treviso. From a first analysis the sole administrator is Maurizio Biasuzzi, investigated with Coin of Geo Nova SpA, of the group Geo Holding srl, active in the treatment, recovery and disposal of waste, for not having notified the Province that he was managing waste in a quarry of Pordenone. According to the press, for over a decade, open air, without authorization, would have also stacked hazardous waste (asbestos, in particular). The citizens of Bergantino have already undergone the installation of a previous landfill near their own border and this time they have constituted the SAT committee (environmental health and territory) and entrusted a college of experts in hydrological, hydrogeological and legal-environmental matters. They have detailed a request to the competent bodies to give a negative opinion on environmental compatibility, reject the project and deny the integrated environmental authorisation. The gigantic settlement (164,500 square meters for 990,000 cubic meters of waste) could in fact impact eight other municipalities and the same Provinces of Rovigo, Mantova and Verona. Although nominally indicated for non-dangerous waste, it would handle asbestos-containing waste and a further 174 types of hazardous substances, such as heavy metals and organic solvents, resulting from electrolytic processes and asbestos processing, from the production of cement, brake pads, insulating materials, heavy ash, slag and boiler dust, produced from co-incineration which may contain hazardous substances for health such as lead, cadmium, thorium and arsenic. The possible spills of fumes, gases, smelly vapours and fine particles of carcinogenic substances are concerned during transport and the various processing phases: about 300 tons per day for over 10 years. But it's not enough. The landfill would be placed in soils with unevenness between clay areas and sandy areas and subject to collapses that, amplified by vibrations produced by the treatment processes envisaged, can cause the actual rupture of parts of the landfill, in the presence of very superficial underground layers, sometimes even a few centimetres. The area is declared exondable or water-stagnant by the Provincial Territorial Coordination Plan of the Province of Rovigo. Moreover, following the earthquakes of 20 and 29 May 2012, Bergantino was recognized as damaged municipality. I therefore urge the Ministers responsible to reply to Question 4-30060, of which I am the first signatory in this matter. Am I aware of these facts? What steps do they intend to take to monitor the authorisation procedure and to involve the population in the decision-making process under the Aarhus Convention? Finally, I would like to ask whether they intend to request the health impact assessment study, which is currently missing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u68	Colleagues, I suspend the session until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.46 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u69	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u70	Madam President, I would first like to make an analysis. Unfortunately, once again this Government, alas, Government that is not present in this House, President...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u71	Senator Crosio, please stop your intervention, because the government must be present. I therefore suspend the meeting for five minutes, waiting for the government. (The sitting was suspended at 3.50 p.m. and resumed at 3.04 p.m.) The session is resumed. We note that the Government is present in the Chamber, so, Senator Crosio, you can resume your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u72	Madam President, I would like to thank the Government which has arrived in this House. We were worried. Minister, I salute you. Haven't you fallen yet? I'm not bad luck with you, Minister. I'm not an owl. Apart from the jokes, Minister, I regret to note that once again we have confidence. I cannot boast of a very long parliamentary experience: I have been in Parliament since 2008 and in the previous legislature I was a member of the House and I supported the Berlusconi Government, which was silent as the government that governed thanks to trust. But since in this country there is never limit to the worst, the origin of all the evils came, the Monti Government, which put many trusts and set to live to the sound of trust. And we sincerely thought that we had seen the apex of parliamentary paucity. Unfortunately, we must note, Minister, that your Government manages to govern, or tries to govern, only and exclusively with confidence. You put the question of trust this morning. Among other things, allow me to say - I do not know if there is a bon ton in Parliament - that to reply without even sitting down and putting the issue of trust with so much nonchalance - I repeat that I do not have a great parliamentary experience - had never been seen, but there is always a first time in life. The thing that seems very obvious, Minister, is that you are actually out of reality. You have occupied the media, you have occupied the country's political debate on the theater of Article 18. In our opinion, with all respect for Article 18 - we would miss it - this is a clear attempt to divert the interest of the country and economic operators from the real reality, from the real need of our country, which is to have more work, serious and certain work, and not a surreal debate on Article 18. As I said, you are truly out of reality, from our point of view. Every day we are, unfortunately, witnessing situations that concern us, and I believe that we need to worry the whole of Parliament. News has come out on the news agencies about some of the taffles that have taken place today - we have not had the chance to see them with our own eyes - still on the issue. Someone even wanted to get into the Senate to show their concern. And I just give the news without saying the reasons and the wrongs. Someone will be right, someone will be wrong, someone will be more right and someone will be more wrong; I don't know. But one thing is certain, Minister: we have already seen a few weeks ago and we see once again that in this country we run more and more the risk - I repeat, regardless of the reason and the wrongs - that of workers batting other workers, and unfortunately this is not good, it is absolutely not good, Minister. Something's wrong. You're out of reality, I'm saying. Minister, I do not know you personally, except for what I can read about your past, but I assure you that in my mandate it is a priority to be on the ground and to put the needs of the territory at the centre of my political action. And never as now, Minister, I, who come from one of the Provinces that has been classified in these days as still one of the most virtuous, one of those in which one lives well (the fourth or fifth Province, Sondrio), I consider myself sufficiently mature to say that a situation like the contemporary one had never been seen. What leaves me even more perplexed - and I want to take advantage of your presence to highlight something very important in my opinion, but which always passes into the cavalry in this Parliament both in the House and in the Senate - is the fact that one of the largest Lombard companies is called Canton Ticino, which currently employs more than 62,000 people in the construction sector and in others. And, alive God, thankfully that in this moment of crisis we have the Canton Ticino, with all the difficulties related to the cannibalization in place at this moment by the Swiss Confederation with reference to our excellences regarding companies, companies and industries. But the aspect that worries me, since I have been dealing with frontier workers for twenty years, is that never as at this time our country has been so far from the Swiss Confederation in political-institutional relations. A short time ago, we saw a serious crisis between our Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs of the Swiss Confederation, which left us very perplexed. But perhaps you do not know, Minister, that our 62,500 borderers, who daily take a bunch so much to earn bread across the border, by virtue of legitimate choices, of politics, of Members of Parliament and of certain Swiss political parties, could suffer a significant reduction in pay. In fact, today they have a municipal multiplier for the calculation of taxes at source of 78 percent and in the near future, by virtue of a bill - I repeat - legitimate, they will have a multiplier of 100 percent. What puzzles us, Minister, is the fact that our country has not spoken on this issue. International relations between our country and the Swiss Confederation are non-existent. Our workers are without protection; on the contrary, I will tell you more, even someone would like to review the agreements signed in 1972 on the basis of which the rates for the transfer of border guards to local authorities are fixed... (Minister Poletti speaks to Senator Valdinosis). I see you are distracted, Minister. I know you are not interested in this, but I think it is an important issue which will also be the subject of important questions. The problem is that someone wants to go and deal also on the rifts of the frontier: it is more than 42 million euros going to the local authorities, that someone wants to retract; or worse, that someone in the central government wants to use as an international trading commodity, for a policy not well specified, doing other negotiations. Well, I can tell you that we are not on this: we want to watch over this issue, which is too important. Maybe you don't realize what... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u73	You must finish your speech, Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u74	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. Perhaps you do not realize what sacrifices these people make, contrary to what someone in the central government may think, to make ends meet. Minister, I have taken this opportunity and your presence, by virtue of your history, to remind you of a situation that could also degenerate. I therefore ask you, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs to do something to restart the very important political debate between our country and the Swiss Confederation, because this lack is bringing down heavily 62,500 workers of what, I repeat, remains one of the largest companies still performing in the Lombardy Region. [[Applause from Senator Munerato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, putting forward the question of confidence on the measure under discussion wipes out all the issues of substance, some of which were introduced during the general debate and dealt with in the amendments and agendas tabled by both myself and our colleagues in this House. We are once again confronted with a vote on a closed package, which we cannot unpack, which we cannot open, with results, among other things, truly incredible. A short while ago, on entering the Senate, you had the feeling of entering an armored place: this place, at the moment, is surrounded completely by the police and being able to pass and enter we must expose our badge to indicate to the agents present that we are senators. All this really leaves a feeling of bitterness in the mouth. This place, Parliament, which should be the home of the Italians, of the citizens, is at this moment distant from them. There are massive demonstrations going on and it is really bitter to consider that the vote of confidence on the so-called jobs act measure actually results in a public order problem: this discussion has created a public order problem. I believe that all of this needs to be reflected. The government, which essentially proposes this measure, I believe should reflect on the direction this country is taking. The vote on the question of trust once again re-proposes the vote on the model of country, since we cannot enter into the substance of the individual measures contained in the measure, some of which are also good. The vote of confidence puts us before a more general question, to say yes or no to a model of development, a model of country that essentially tends to dump on workers, therefore on people, the costs of an economic crisis. The whole article 18 debate is about this, about an ethically unacceptable model in my opinion. That is why the vote of confidence will find me firmly opposed. Of all the issues that this vote of confidence is sweeping away, Minister, there is one that I would like to mention in my speech, and it is essentially the relationship between the National Employment Agency and ISFOL. You see, Minister, the decision on your part to touch Article 18 is legitimate, as are all the other decisions contained in this measure, in the sense that a majority can take all the decisions it considers most appropriate if they are voted on by Parliament. I therefore do not dispute the legitimacy of your work. But when these decisions are formed and mature by neglecting an important piece, i.e. the advice to the Government carried out by a public research body such as the Institute for the Development of Vocational Training for Workers (ISFOL), I begin to think that something really does not work. I think that policy in general, not only in the field of work, has a backwardness in accepting the work of researchers and the scientific conclusions to which they come and accepting their voice, considering it almost as a biased voice. Well, that's not the case: in reality, science is not biased, but it is aimed at the advancement of knowledge; there is no science of the right or left: there is science, which has its rules and its monitoring and control mechanisms, which are universally and internationally recognized. Well, this public research body, as I pointed out in my general speech at the first reading of the jobs act in the Senate, gives a completely different indication of the initiatives that policy should take to relaunch the labour market. I sum up, not to repeat myself: the so-called outgoing flexibility has nothing to do with the relaunching of the labour market. Other considerations should be made: for example, the ISFOL study, carried out at the end of 2013 with public money and commissioned by the Ministry of Labour itself, tells us that we should take more care to create the conditions for entrepreneurs to be graduates or to have a high level of education, because it is the companies whose entrepreneurs are graduates that compete better in a now globalized labour market and that sees the relocation of jobs with low knowledge content as a dominant phenomenon. We should therefore focus on the education of workers and entrepreneurs, through investment in education, research and development, but there is none of this in the jobs act. Once again, politics has neglected the indications that come from a public research body. Your decisions on this matter, Minister, are legitimate - I have said this before - but the fact that this voice has not been heard, also recognized by the Ministry of Labour (ISFOL is in fact a public research body supervised by that Ministry), goes hand in hand with the uncertain fate of this body. In fact, in the jobs act there is an article that, together with the establishment of the National Employment Agency, casts a shadow on the future of the ISFOL. It is unclear whether this Agency will take up the tasks of ISFOL. Among other things, I would remind you that the Agency is not a public research body, but it is and must be - in this case I could also agree with the establishment of that Agency - an armed arm of the administration. However, the Agency is not a public research body, which must be independent and third. This is the research and these are the researchers: let us remember the European Charter for Researchers. Well, the jobs act has a shadow, which has not yet dissolved. A meeting is being held today to establish relations between the National Employment Agency and ISFOL. The position of the matter of trust takes away a debate which I believe would have been sound and appropriate, which we would have done in this House, during the debate on agendas and amendments, on what the role of the ISFOL and the National Employment Agency must be, respectively. Minister, the debate on this very important issue, which has to do with the role of science in policy decisions, is being taken away from this House and for this reason too I will not vote for trust. I would like to end my speech by simply hoping, Minister, that this uncertainty which remains in the jobs act will be overcome. It is true that the jobs act does not say that the ISFOL will be abolished, I realize it; but it does not even say that the ISFOL will continue to be that public research body necessary to the Ministry in order to evaluate its labour policies and study its repercussions in the social fabric and in the labour market. This is the task of ISFOL. It must do so independently and thirdly, because it is essentially for you, but also for us and for the whole country to evaluate this aspect in a third and independent way. Minister, I close my speech by saying that you have taken away the debate on ISFOL from the House. I had tabled an agenda on which the Government and the House had to express their views. This vote of confidence overwhelms this debate, so I can't help but close this speech by hoping that you yourself, precisely by exploiting the wide meshes that the jobs act leaves in the story of the Agency and the ISFOL, fully recognize the positive nature of a role of a public research agency such as the ISFOL and consequently have in mind the fate of 252 precarious researchers. Every job has its own dignity, but these 252 researchers, who should be the driving force of this country, so far... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Bocchino. BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). I'm finishing. I was saying that these researchers have guaranteed research and with them they guarantee the core business of public research bodies. I hope that you bear in mind the role of ISFOL and the fate of these workers who have so far maintained an international standard of excellence for this research body. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u77	Madam President, Minister, I apologise if I may not be too technical in this speech. First of all, for the first time I find myself very embarrassed, because in order to get in here I had to show my parliamentary card to a first curtain of policemen; then I had to do it to a second curtain of policemen; and then again to a third. I wonder if this is normal, I wonder if Parliament, which should be the home of the Italians, is a place for the few, for the intimate and I wonder why, when I went out instead, I did not live anywhere on the streets. I saw that the trucks didn't even leave space to allow a person to pass. I've seen hundreds of cops dressed in riot suits, and I didn't understand why. The streets were deserted. So, I walked away and went further, to get off Torre Argentina, where I found a group of simple people. I have found workers, unemployed people, students and young people with no future who perhaps wanted to come in here and say this and no one can allow it because you can't; this is a private club and I wonder: what am I in here? Do I have to be part of a club where I do what a person imposes on me or am I a person who brings in the voice of the people? I'm that one! We must be the ones who carry the voice of the people! The people should be here every day in the stands saying what they need. If people are kept away, something's wrong, Minister. It means that there is a huge discrepancy between what we do here and the real needs! I feel this inside and I don't know if you can hear it inside the other side of the House, the one that is and the one that isn't there, the one that I've seen that already has the trolleys and the coats ready to go to their territories tonight! What are you going to do? To respond to people's needs? People are out here! You don't have to go far: you just have to do at most 500 meters! And everyone is saying that this delegation of work will make them even more slaves, even more angry, and will begin a war between the poor, where they will be scanned, Minister, because precariousness makes this effect. It makes people scary: they're afraid to starve to death. That's what's going on. We are like animals: we need to eat and, when you have no food, you become bad and violent. You want this company? A society of violent people? And all of you here, perched in this citadel, all protected by the police! They too are exploited, with hunger pay, taking risks! You're turning these people against you! This is your policy: divide and rule! And even the procession was divided into several parts because, while a whole procession is scary, a small group, divided by cops or trucks, can manage better. Well, know that this formula of divide and rule is going less and less forward, because the result of these last elections, with the people who no longer vote, gives an answer: he understood that the votes you are using them! You ask for votes and then this club does what the club cares about, and it doesn't give answers and who's out. Otherwise, people would come in here to say thank you for responding to their needs. We had a press conference earlier, we of the 5 Star Movement, where we gave a solution: it's called citizenship income, and it could make people understand that there are people here who work for them. Because we want people to have answers and to guarantee them a decent life, without fear of tomorrow and without precariousness, Minister. The precariousness that this jobs act, this job reform all tweets and commercials, doesn't give. It gives nothing but the answers to you. And we all know the answers that happen. Yesterday Rome was practically razed to the ground... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u78	Senator Paglini, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u79	Mr Paglini (M5S). Yes, Madam President, I shall conclude. Thirty-seven arrests show that the administrations are rotten, that the municipalities are administered by rotten people, stuck in the system with all hands and feet! We must set an example and make sure that such a thing can no longer be! Minister, please tell those who have to stop on time, because we are 315 here, while the people are millions. How are we gonna stop them? Let us go with them to the demonstrations, listen to them and give them the answers they need! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u81	Madam President, Minister, we have a new confidence. This is the only act that, objectively, is worth talking about. It is clear that, on arriving at the third reading, the second in the Senate, the government cannot afford any further waste of time. Let's put it this way, in a very practical way. What we are saddened by is that the parliamentary debate is being turned upside down. It is, of course, directed towards a direction which does not allow us, through the position of the question of trust, to debate the amendments but not even on the agendas, except through this debate which, in fact, is focused on the issue of trust rather than on the content of the jobs act. We are unaware of the reason why the Government has so much difficulty in combining the needs of the different social partners in the field. It is obvious that today in the square the country is not expressing itself well (as opposed to what Landini says). I hope, in fact, that there will be no riots and riots and I say that certainly the country cannot express itself through a violent square. But it is equally true that the Government has a duty to seek, in the parliamentary debate, the synthesis of all positions, not neglecting any, even the most antithetical, diametrically more opposed to its own intentions. Mr. Minister, it's hard to deny that the government has traveled very little. We've seen him here in the Commission these days, we've seen him in the House, we've seen him here in the Senate before, and we still see him today with the imposition of trust. There is no way of going over the proposals we have made and the amendments. And on the agenda, today we know that our parliamentary system almost leads us to say that the approval of an agenda is not denied to anyone; but let me ask the President to ask for a little more seriousness, through him, from the Government: if we make commitments, whether they are motions or agendas, that they are not a pro form to be put in the drawer, but a serious thing, on which to give answers to Parliament. In fact, here - and I say this also with reference to the previous speaker - the representatives of the citizens are there; the demands that are placed here must be considered in a serious way, precisely in order to prevent these requests, not being answered in a parliamentary forum, from coming out in the squares. Some people today would have voted and voted differently than they would have voted with a secret vote, and this is also a symptom of a majority which does not have a balance within itself, but which governs the circumstances with the stick and with the promise of the purge in the next elections, in the composition of the electoral lists. It is clear, Minister, that Parliament's debate is mortified by this, and I would not like this to be a path of convenience now taken: there is no week in which there is no imposition of a matter of confidence, there is no week in which the debate, in the House or in the Senate, is not cut off from this imposition. We believe that this is not a road leading to democratic sharing. A great deal has already been said about the content of the measure, but I would like to focus on one issue: what is work? Do you know what the paradox is, Minister? That our Constitution opens up by pointing to work as the main founding element of our Republic and then, instead, it is one of those values that is most drawn from one side and the other, as if it were on the side. How to say that justice is on the right and injustice is on the left, that honest people are on the right and criminals are on the left, that work is on the workers' side and on the other side there are businesses, that take away work from workers. This approach, unfortunately still ideological, we have seen it emerge here in Parliament and this is not good, because it is another element that leads the streets in the wrong direction. If we talk about work, we must also take away a deception: it is not by changing the rules of dismissal rather than the methods of recruitment that create more work. The work is created by generating investments in the country and economy, avoiding that Italian companies move their production headquarters abroad. Nor do I want to think of a system that forces those who produce where the tax system has become unsustainable; on the contrary, I hope a system that realizes that work can be created only if the conditions of production in this country will return to be competitive with our competitors. We have faced the most disparate situations, as we are still seeing these days. I am thinking of some cases that I consider emblematic and certainly one of them is that of the Terni steel works: today also the great Italian industry inevitably depends on choices of subjects at the limit of the non-Italian monopoly, with dominant situations that oblige the parties to bow to choices that then lead to unemployment. If ThyssenKrupp closes the production activity in Italy we know that it will be to go to produce elsewhere, where it is cheaper and cheaper, and where you will have a higher remuneration. What remains to be done then? Simply open the social parachute to cushion the expulsion of workers from the world of work. This is not a solution, it can be a patch, a buffer: the solution is to make sure that new entrepreneurs open up a productive activity and if an industry wants to leave for its own interest go as well, but in Italy you continue to produce. But if our electricity costs 40% more than it costs in Germany or if our paid workers have half the cost to the company the system doesn't work. Mr. Minister, let's get rid of the illusion that with the jobs act and the delegations that the government will implement can create jobs. It will certainly create more fluidity in the world of work, but the job, the one that produces wealth, is created only by stimulating investment, and I think first of all of the Italian ones. Minister, I tell you that you are a person of common sense because you also tell the President of the Council: we are not Katanga or Burundi. We must not expect investment from abroad to raise our social and economic level compared to the Third World. Our country has paved the way for industrial pioneers. Today, however, we are a country bent by finance. If our world of work no longer thinks in terms of employment and how to do business and the enterprise that is taken for example is the one that makes finance (I think of FIAT) where do we want to go? But what is our future? It is on these things that one must be intellectually honest. We cannot point out to the people a photograph with Marchionne to say that that is the example to follow, because we are talking about a company that, after having taken contributions from the general taxation for decades, has transferred its tax office in Holland, its administrative headquarters in London, is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and has production activities everywhere but practically nothing in Italy. Our strength has always been in the basic productive activity, that of artisans, that of entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, that of traders, that of those who invest in their own, has confidence in the future and continues to invest the income that derives from their own activity, and does not use it for weekends. That's what the government needs to invest in. Then jobs will be created. Otherwise, you can change all the rules you want: you will make the labour market even more fluid, there will be young people who will be hired, VAT matches that will open and close depending on the convenience, but you will not create a new economy that will bring us back to trust and to have prospects for economic development. Minister, the risk is to be increasingly bound and enslaved by a system set up for finance and not for the economy and work, and we do not share only choices of image that do not look at this substance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u82	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u83	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank all my colleagues and the President of the 11th Commission, Senator Sacconi (to whom I wish him a speedy re-establishment), Minister Poletti and Undersecretary Bellanova, who accompanied us during the nine months of work on this measure which is coming to this House today for the debate. At present, crises and unemployment are dramatic emergencies. Faced with the various forms of work (dependent, precarious, black or self-employed) it is necessary that we ask ourselves what work really is and what the future of new forms of production of goods and services will be. The foundation of the Republic fades in the present moment under unacceptable inequalities: the dramatic expulsion of over 40, 43% of youth unemployment, the precariousness imposed as a bitter destiny of a generation, our young people crushed between the end of some trades and the closing of the markets. But our young people are always the mines of hope that school, training must and can absolutely make flourish. What reform then, going beyond liberal individualism, that does not take care of the other and his wounds? We need to extend guarantees to the excluded, to the precarious, to the young by challenging strong powers, taboos and privileges. We have been talking about new works and new safeguards for years in our conferences, in our editorials, in myriads of political statements. It is striking to hear Massimo D'Alema's words of almost twenty years ago, 1997 when he said: because this more open society does not generate insecurity, we must radically renew the instruments of bargaining and build new and more flexible networks of representation and protection. Otherwise, we will represent only one segment of the world of work, the one in the middle, between those who are good enough to negotiate alone and those who, at the bottom, live on undeclared, unprotected and precarious work. But the ones in between are always less and less. I repeat: they are less and less. Sharpness and foresight. What did we do? I mentioned this in my previous speech in this House when we approved this measure at first reading: the Renzi Government has the obligation - I repeat: the obligation - to put in hand a reform of the system, which fills the gaps of the past, but without retracing its errors. The heart of labour reform is the new contract of increasing protection and not Article 18, which has been watched with strabism during this period. This is the answer we need to give to a market that has lost a million seats from 2008 to the first half of this year and where standard contracts between the under 35 have been reduced by 33%. Jobs act offers a cost-benefit scheme aimed at stabilising employment relationships, because it is only with more stable contracts that human capital is increased. With stable jobs there is 40% more chance of obtaining training and retraining during a career. Companies have to return to investing in human capital to fill that overall investment deficit: private investment expenditure - alas - has risen from 21% of GDP in 2008 to 11.6 percent today. It's 80 billion lost every year. Says economist Tommaso Nannicini, adviser to Palazzo Chigi: It is true that the engineering of contracts and employment relationships does not create employment. This does not mean, however, that it is useful to overcome the Byzantineisms and the iniquities of our rules and labour policies. In the coming years, our economy will have to go through a profound process of transformation: work and capital will have to move from less productive sectors to more productive others. The new labour market rules will have to help this adjustment effort, without paying the bill to the weaker workers alone. That is why the government is rightly in a hurry to intervene; with an unemployment rate that has reached historical levels, we cannot waste any more time in conferences or tables. Three are, in my opinion, the cornerstones of the law that we are about to vote on and that deserves confidence: the confidence not only of the majority, but also of the minority. The first is the new contract of increasing protection, which is designed to be the standard relationship, the one most used in a market that combines dynamism and protection of workers on the market; a contract that reduces legal uncertainty in terms of dismissals and ensures that companies that need to adjust their workforce pay monetary compensation. There are inequalities between workers: while a parasubordinate is entitled to a maximum of 20 days for illness, one who works in the public administration for care is 36 months old. These are inequalities (those on women have been remembered). The Government is implementing two parallel actions, on the one hand reducing the cost of labour by 8,000 euros a year for new contracts without a time limit, on the other hand eliminating regulatory rigidities on the contract indefinitely. I conclude by recalling the Pope's words, which, a few days ago, stated on labour policies, that new ways must be found to combine market flexibility and necessary stability and certainty of employment prospects, indispensable for the human development of workers. This measure, with successive legislative decrees, is that necessary reform, that first step in the direction of a change in the country, along with reforms of the school, justice, public administration, tax, the Senate of the autonomy, the reform of Title V of the Constitution and the electoral law. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u84	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u85	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to the issue that I have dealt with in my general speech, raising the criticality of paragraph 7 (e) because of the concerns that arise with the dismantling of the INPS and INAIL control system and the establishment of a new single inspection agency. This concern is due to the fact that the control systems are working today. I do not say this, but the Court of Auditors, which shows that last year - in 2013 - 1,200 million have been recovered and how every inspector, making the average of the last ten years, has taken 9,8 million euros. In a book that tells of the waste of Italians, it says that there is no public official who renders to the state what the inspectors of the INPS do. Everything that gets dismantled to do it better is actually worse. Here I could recall the control of the medical colleagues of the INPS, who went to verify the truthfulness of the sickness certificates and who were actually fired. At this point, you no longer understand how their work works, so it is true that in my question I asked to check the numbers and know how much the certificates and the sick days have increased, since there is no more control. I would like to thank Senator Ichino, who listened to me this morning and answered me, but his answer is not, in my view, exhaustive, precisely because this system of controls works and makes it work even more seems to me a very complicated thing. I also believe that this is not the urgency: that the real problem lies in the fact that there is no database that has already been foreseen since 2004, but is not being implemented. It would be enough to increase these controls to make the situation very clear. I would like to conclude by referring to the analysis of the data provided by some experts, of which I referred in the intervention in general debate to which I refer also for the conclusions, namely that the dismantling of the Italian pension system is done to deliver the social security savings to domestic and international capitalism. This is the real reason for being of that standard. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u86	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u87	Madam President, thank you. Mr Poletti, you are here, for the umpteenth time, to ask Parliament for confidence. I would like to ask you a question that unfortunately does not have the opportunity to answer on its part: do the actions of the Government find a synthesis, a connection, a moment of common direction? We have the distinct impression that the right hand does not know what the left hand does. Here you bring a reform of work thinking that the issues of youth unemployment are solved, and not only, simply by a legislative measure. It is not necessary to make an effort of memory, but simply to move back a few days the attention to say that the Government, which at this moment wants to conclude the discussion on the delegation on the job, has also put on track the law of stability. With the law of stability it is said on the one hand that it wants to make sure that we get out of this recession and this very serious unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, but on the other hand with the law of stability we go to punish companies strongly, asking them to pay on the non-income, on the organization of work (IMU on the sheds, implemented of the internal structures, that is of the machinery). Businesses don't earn, they struggle to survive, mostly close and they can't hire, and what does the government do? It squeezes everything it can squeeze, claiming that the companies that own sheds in which machines are located pay taxes on those too. But what if those cars are still? A bit like the IRAP, you pay a tax on the organization and not on the income. We have always said and reiterate that the first house is a necessity and we go to punish even more, with TASI and IMU additional, the possession of the first house, which does not give income, but gives protection to the founding core of our society, that is the family. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In addition, there are sector studies that go to punish, even here presumably, an income of our companies that no longer exists. Let the government join! If we do not want to shut down the entire production system, we must start from there to make the organizational machine, which is the companies, which are the companies. If you sink the enterprise, you won't need the jobs act, because no one will hire anyone anymore. This is where you start on the wrong foot. You should wonder how you can hire people. Instead, the government says: how do we make it easier to fire people? Get out of here, a few meters out of the Senate, and ask the unions what they think and what kind of participation they had in the elaboration of this text, which is completely centerless, anachronistic. Today the problem is not to fire: today the problem is to find a way for companies to hire. One minister told us that a rule has been made whereby those who hire young people for three years will be taxed and will not pay any costs. It's not a bad rule, but it's a rule that doesn't do anything, because businesses don't hire; even if young people cost zero, businesses can't hire. We need industrial policies, we need policies to support them, and I would also like to say, at the moment, Keynesian policies. We replace private demand, which does not exist, with demand for work and demand for public works. It is useless to go and do the jackpots, or rather the mats in Europe. In Europe we go and say that, with austerity, the first to close will be Italy, but after Italy many other nations will follow. We come out of austerity policies, which, as we have seen, are of no use but to weaken our system even more. And we, as Italians, must add: if the euro is calibrated on what was the mark, if the euro is calibrated on the German economy, the same currency cannot go well for an economy put on the carpet, put to the extreme, put to the pillage, which perhaps remains some longing. The euro-marco is not good for an economy on its knees such as the Italian economy; we have the courage to say so. All economists, seven Nobel laureates, say that a euro so strong for such a weak economy is a massacre. And we see it: we have heavy euros in our pockets and we go to buy very affordable products from abroad, because, if we bought them in Italy, we would buy exactly half of those products. It is convenient to buy abroad; but, by means of buying abroad, we no longer produce anything in Italy. And what survives the Italian production-economic system? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] But Renzi's genius, at this time when Italian production should be supported, has decided to pay tribute to European sanctions. Those few structured companies and companies that were able to export to the Russian market today are also blocked that possibility. We were exporting fruit, vegetables, meat and dairy products; a breath for the Italian agri-food economy, which has been blocked, because we must sanction Russia, since Europe has told us that we must align ourselves with European sanctions. Great. Who's lost it? The country we sanctioned or us, the sanctioners? Economy on the ground and few exports, even those decapitated. On the other hand, Russia is not waiting for Italy to change its opinion and position or for Europe to repent. He looked to the east and made a contract with China, according to which Russia gives up gas and oil, which China needs, being a country in huge expansion, in exchange for all those food products that we have decided to ban and sacrifice. Incidentally, we import 49 percent of gas from Russia; 49 percent is not 50, but it is still almost half the gas that comes and that is consumed by families and our business system. Putin rightly says: if Europe itself has decided to make war with us, we play with our weapons and the South Stream, designed to arrive in Italy and Austria, will have other destinations. One should start rubbing his head and putting his hands in his hair. What does our President Renzi say? He replies that, all in all, South Stream is not strategic for us. Minister Poletti, you seem to me to be a reasonable person: give Renzi a little wake-up call. We could be energetically almost self-sufficient, once the alternative to South Stream was realized, which would be that TAP that should come to us through Albania. However, it does not start from Albania, it starts from Azerbaijan, thanks to the good relations that over the years the parliamentary, political and governmental system has maintained with that Caucasian area and with that country. Well, 10 billion cubic metres of gas will come from Azerbaijan through Albania and Puglia. But what happens? President Renzi's friends, the Apulian governors and administrators oppose the arrival of a pipeline, not oil or oil, but gas, excellence for environmental compatibility. There would be political and environmental reasons. Here too, and I am going to conclude: governed by Puglia, governed by the country, we are without gas and without power, Russia will shut everything down, and what do we do? We also give up the alternative! Give yourself a connection here with your peripheral administrators! A short while ago, Minister Poletti, while you had moved away from the Chamber, I said that you are a reasonable person: try to reason with the President of the Council too, because one of the next deadlines will be the election of the President of the Republic, a person who will be the cornerstone of the near future of this country, given the emergency situation in which politics is located. Master Muti, a very respectable person, was proposed as President of the Republic, but he intelligently asked to continue to do what he can do well, that is to say to conduct orchestras. Italians no longer need shows, they don't need tweets, they don't need the selfies of the President of the Council: they need some seriousness. If the President does not get there, you, Ministers, help him on the right path. In this way we will clearly not be able to trust the government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u88	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u89	Madam President, I now come to the Budget Committee, which has been convened while this debate is under way. I believe that it was absolutely inappropriate - I have also told President Azzolini - for the Senate presidency's authorization to continue its work, because the debate on confidence on such a sensitive and important subject from the point of view of political and social relations in this country would have deserved to see all the members of the Senate, all the senators involved in the discussion and listening.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u90	Senator, for the sake of accuracy, I would like to remind you that the decision was taken by the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u91	URAS (Misto-SEL). But the Groups did not unanimously agree to this decision, which deeply undermines the rights of the opposition. Once again we propose ourselves as protesters of an attitude of direction of the Senate's work that does not take account of the rights of the opposition, rights that are not particularly demanding. It is only a question of participating in a discussion that had been planned, on a subject that is of some importance, which is also given by the Government. Having said that, it seems to me - precisely because we have to talk to people who listen - that this measure is at the beginning of its journey, not at the end and, if anyone thinks that once the draft delegation law has been approved, the problems are solved, he knows very well that it will be disappointed, meanwhile because this delegated law leaves barracks, ravines, deep precipices from the point of view of the financial cover of the interventions that he solicits. When it is said that we have put EUR 1 900 million on social shock absorbers, it is well known that that money is not enough to support the current expenditure on integration and derogation. And so they must be additional, in a situation in which public finance pays price, including a postponement to March of the examination of the maneuver by the European Commission, which could also oblige a budgetary adjustment, an additional maneuver in the course of the year. He knows very well that all legislative decrees must be adopted and, therefore, their legislative composition also poses problems. I do not make a speech here - look, I have done it before - on the opinion that I have on the effectiveness of these measures. I would also like to say to the Minister and the Government that the problems that this delegation law will pose are serious problems for its implementation. One of the issues concerns - for example - labour policies. I have remained attached to the old active policy and passive policy articulation, and the active policies here are reduced to two. One of them is self-employment. We, Minister, have a literature on the functioning of self-employment measures, which do not solve the problems. They pay a very high price in terms of stability. We did it with honorary loans, start-up contributions. We have done so with the non-refundable contributions to support expenditure on equipment and equipment and also to support the new employment. Then the great part failed: the enterprises born so they died, they left on the way corpses, people full of debts, entrepreneurs who have invented such, but who do not have the skills and are not tutored along the way, and die along the way, becoming desperate additional. The other element is the drugs in the labour market that public administration has done in these decades. There are tons of literature on this, too, and I am referring to employment incentives. Employment incentives don't do jobs: they drug the labour market, they distract it, they kill free competition. Therefore, they are in stark contrast to the indications of the European Union, in stark contrast, and are aids, surreptitious ways of aiding businesses. So, if we think that these are the founds that solve the problem of work, or - as it is in the culture of a certain Judaism - the idea that the more free the enterprise is to take and leave, exploit, the more it serves to create employment and to revive the economy, I say that we will be disappointed and I can write it today to see us tomorrow and understand that we were right. This reason does not come from an intuition, but from the now decades of experience on these topics. Moreover - holy God - the contracts, the contractual types that pass through the law: we must delegate. We must give back to the labour market actors their function, we must not cancel them. The struggle of these days to the union is also struggle to the enterprises, because a game that concerns the relations between workers and employers plays it the Government, in a culturally authoritarian way, through the norms of law, that become an obligation for subjects to whom, instead, it must leave for some measure an area of freedom that allows the adaptation, the flexibility of the solutions and, therefore, aid the economy and the development of the enterprises, the respect of the job and the workers. This is the theme. We are not against the challenges, we ask to put that culture in the attic - and I am sorry, because they are people who have applied themselves in these years - that for ten years has been raging and that brings the country to ruin, that culture that has established that through these measures they reorganize society and the economy. We are not reorganizing society or the economy: we are sinking! The rapporteur is well aware of this, and the rapporteur of the previous measure is well aware of this, that they tend to define the contract as increasing protections as a common or privileged form. But what does that adjective matter to those who have to work and who have to hire to make their business productive? It's an academic exercise. It means delivering the lives of all of us to a study out of reality. It's a mistake. This is the theme. Send them to the attic. Do the things you have to do. Rule by taking into account the real people, those who live in a reality that is ours, not those who have their feet in the heat. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Uras. URAS (Misto-SEL). I'm done. Those with warm feet do not know what suffering is, they do not know what it is to gain the right to live, to work, they do not know what the difficulty of businesses and entrepreneurs means. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u92	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u93	Madam President, Minister, within a little more than a month, we are voting for the second time on confidence in this measure, which is also a delegated measure. It seems to me to be a procedure that is now inappropriate. In fact, this branch of Parliament, the Senate, has been prevented from discussing and voting on amending proposals which could amend this delegated text. Therefore, the Government not only calls for a broad, general delegation on such an important subject, but in fact prevents this parliamentary branch from being able to influence the text it proposes. We have now arrived, as other Members have said, at a Parliament which no longer has powers, which has been deprived of its power. I believe that our role is not simply to intervene, to speak, to debate, to express our views on the proposals for legislation. Our role, theoretically, as a Constitution, should be to legislate and, if the proposals are brought to our attention by the Government, we should have at least the right to propose amendments, changes to the proposed texts. In fact, we find ourselves in the paradoxical situation in which the Government combines both legislative and executive power. You have exonerated Parliament from all its powers. If this had happened in another historical phase, in which the Government had not been a representative of the center-left, I am sure that the colleagues of the Democratic Party, as has happened in the past, would have shouted at the scandal, that the highest offices of the State would censor this improper behaviour of the Government. But you know, the rules aren't the same for everyone. For those who are enlightened by belonging to a certain political group, the common, normal rules do not apply and they may not even be respected. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] In the face of this debate, we cannot trust this Government. Even if it were useful and positive measures, we could put aside all these perhaps unnecessary considerations, because basically the important thing is that the measures are good and it is not significant that they are approved in one way or another. But we are tired of trusting a government that has made itself responsible for a serious fault that we blame on it, that is to say, that it has deceived the citizens all these months. We cannot trust a President-in-Office of the Council who we regard as above all smart and self-centered in his work as a representative of the Government who wants to clear all forms of debate both in his party and in Parliament, as he is showing us on this day as well. We cannot trust a President-in-Office of the Council who has exonerated his predecessor once he has become Secretary of the PD, lacking the word. We cannot trust anyone who claims to want to give hope back to the country only with false promises and empty chatter. We cannot trust a President-in-Office of the Council who is the secretary of that party that voted for the Fornero law (because the Fornero law is the daughter of the Democratic Party). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ) and which has created great social injustices within our country. We cannot trust anyone who says that he wants to lower taxes and that he is lowering taxes, but he is the secretary of that party that has put taxes back on the first house, and that now, with a new denomination of the same tax, the local tax, intends to maintain it or even increase it. We cannot give confidence to those who give lessons to everyone, as if it were an extraterrestrial descended in this country and enlightened we do not know from which truths, and teaches the Regions, the Provinces, the Municipalities and assigns them absolutely unsustainable cuts to make a good figure towards the citizens, knowing that local authorities or will be forced to cut the minimum services essential to their citizens or will be forced to increase the local taxes. We can't trust the one who wiped out the crime of illegal immigration. Let us remember that this happened with the Renzi Presidency, which in fact gave a message to the whole world, namely that here there is full welcome and whoever had arrived there, in any way, would have found the doors open, with journeys of hope often ended with immense tragedies. We cannot give trust to the Government of Mare nostrum, which provides hotel rooms and assistance to anyone who comes from other countries and leaves our citizens on the road and in misery, with a disparity that has now become unsustainable and hateful to most Italian citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We cannot trust those who mock the citizens by changing the name to the policies of the invasion, from Mare nostrum to Triton, and he also wants us to believe that everything has changed. We do not want and cannot give confidence to those who have launched continuous measures empty prisons and now also wants to decriminalize crimes against people, the so-called minor crimes, which so much damage and so much anxiety create in our cities and among our people. We cannot trust those who have endorsed absurd sanctions against Russia, which are absolutely self-harmful, which are causing serious damage to our exports and therefore our economy. We cannot give confidence to those who have in fact mortgaged the future of our country by increasing even more the public debt and intend to do so also in the next financial maneuver, mortgaged the future of all of us. We cannot give confidence to those who put confidence in any measure, whether it is relevant or not, by avoiding discussion and any amending proposal. We cannot give confidence to those who have only one priority: to change the electoral law quickly to go straight to the vote and hide the futility and the inconsistency of the government's measures. This is the real priority of the Renzi Government and in the face of this situation, Minister, we can only say no to your Government, the Government of great illusions, which for us is simply and exclusively a great deception. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u94	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u95	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again today is a sad day. It is a sad day for our country, because instead of facing the real problems of work, with an ad hoc measure, rather than confronting the country, the Government raises the question of trust; trust becomes an act of distrust towards itself, because if it had confidence in the provision, it would not need to put trust. Alas, this is clearly not the case, because the first actor, the one who builds the measure, has no confidence in its approval and its implementation. On the other hand, it is also evident in the genesis of the term jobs act, which also in the web, to which many of us draw, is defined as an English term faracco. So, already in itself the one under consideration is born as a measure to say the least lame. On the contrary, if it were lame, it would perhaps have the possibility to be made operational: so I would rather say that the measure in fact was born dead. These claims may seem to be plateal but are imbued with substance. In fact, Article 18 is not the real problem: the real problem is the work that is not there, as has been said several times in this House. For months - for more than a year - Article 18 has in fact touched on the question, without focusing the real problem, which is the job. If we want to go into Article 18, we should first of all ask ourselves, when it comes to the right or unfair dismissal and the right cause, what are the right reasons and what are the unfair reasons for dismissal, rather than going to determine the consequences of this choice. In addition, there is discrimination between companies with fewer than 15 employees and those with more than 15 employees. Why this? Do workers with fewer than 15 employees and those with more than 15 employees have the same rights? I believe that the workers of these companies have the right to be treated in the same way as the workers of larger companies. The measure also uses what have been called social shock absorbers, while short and fixed-term contractual forms are eliminated, defined by the left as "precarious." In this way, we actually take away an opportunity: I would therefore like to understand what is proposed as an alternative. At a time when the possibility of fixed-term work is removed, through these short contractual forms, an opportunity is in fact taken away from those who need to work. So you take away that loaf, which could be useful at a specific time and also an opportunity to show your qualities and characteristics and to let the employer understand that you want to work for the company, putting to use your potential and your professional skills. So what we are going to propose is further injustice. Moreover, it is not possible to allow the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni, the so-called IGC, to those enterprises that have completely ceased their activity. Why is it that those workers in a closed company are not given access to the integration fund and then resort to that false opportunity of so-called unemployment benefits, also called ASPIs? So, on the one hand I take off and on the other I clearly pretend to give; something obviously not quail. These are just some of the aspects that should be put to the attention of the Assembly with great honesty in order to discuss them freely in order to find shared solutions without resorting to this act of trust that I believe of distrust towards the country. As a man of the street and as a person who has been mayor for many years I have always been accustomed, when I was preparing for a choice, to feel the square. Just a few steps to hear people, understand the mood and what could be the best choice. I would ask you, Minister, and the President-in-Office of the Council: when you go home - but I would not like to do as a much better-known person than I do - ask your neighbour what you think of the jobs act, if you have the courage to do so. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u96	Senator Manassero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u97	Madam President, the text of the jobs act on which we will shortly be called to express our trust had, thanks to the work carried out in the Senate and Chamber Commissions, improvements compared to the text of the delegation law originally presented by the Government. Parliamentary work, as it should be, has enabled us to make progress. I am referring, for example, to distance checks on installations and not to workers and to the right of the worker dismissed not only for discriminatory reasons, but also for unjustified disciplinary reasons, even if only in this case that should be properly specified. All of us face this vote with the concern and responsibility of having to give answers to young people and not unemployed (we speak of 3,410,000 people, as from recent ISTAT data), to those young people who do not know work, if not precarious and underpaid, at risk of undeclared work, or behind false VAT matches; to girls and boys who today, without perspective, with their internships, civil services and volunteering maintain important services in the public administration and local authorities. Minister, let us look with concern at the Commission's initial data on the Youth Guarantee programme: resources, as we know, risk not being that opportunity we wanted and, above all, an effective tool for creating stable and entrenched work. It is a responsibility that we also feel towards the business world, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, in respect of which I recognise the sharing of problems with workers. But I will be honest, and I think I am in tune with what you said in your reply: I do not think it is useful to propose an idea of equality between work and enterprise because in their nature they are different. The first has the task of providing work and the second has the role of investing and taking on the risk of enterprise. Both are exhausted by the current crisis, and we must recognise and address differences and peculiarities. If, as has been said, the workers today ask us to give up the perspective of the fixed place, to the world of enterprises - and I think of the big ones - we cannot just launch a challenge, but we must call them to the responsibility to participate effectively in the recovery of the country. It is up to us to give certain and fair rules. We know the extent of the need for work and we are convinced, as you have said, that a reform of the rules alone is necessary to achieve those points which we recognize to be a good result of the jobs act, such as the reorganization and reduction of contractual forms, active policies and the creation of the national agency, the extension of maternity to all workers and the rules on the conciliation of time, alone is not sufficient to create jobs. We need a firm policy of investment, both public and private, and this is where the responsibility of companies must be recalled. We have strategic sectors that need a driving force. These have often been the protagonists of the debate in this House, and I remember them: the maintenance of the territory as a restoration and prevention from the hydrogeological failure, the maintenance of the real estate and for energy saving, the production of energy - of which we are hungry - and that we would like from alternative sources and broadband. Policies that in their interweaving would produce more than a positive effect: work, economic growth and real change in strategic sectors for the modernization of this country. We will vote for this confidence, Minister, while maintaining opposition, for Group discipline and responsibility towards the country. I share this position with that part of the Democratic Party Group which has experienced the debate on jobs act with concern and discomfort. Our opposition to certain points in the final text remains for us. We believe that we have insisted on maintaining the initial position on the dual track approach in the world of work: on the one hand, workers already employed, for whom the protections of Article 18 remain, and, on the other hand, new recruits (young people and no longer young people) who will have a new contract for increasing protections (which unfortunately gets lame). The crisis has produced obvious rifts in the fabric and social cohesion. The tensions that we see expressed in the squares and in the demonstrations (and even today we have testimonies of them) are ascribed to it, and we think that the risk of increasing inequalities between workers without a time limit does not help to rebuild the climate necessary to get the country out of this moment of discouragement. We must listen carefully to the words of this discomfort. It is not for the good of the country to create exasperation and rifts. This was the reason why we made a proposal, which was not accepted but was consistent with the objectives of the jobs act, with a deadline of thirty-six months for the duration of contracts with increasing protections. Unfortunately, however, we will only have new workers with less protection throughout their working lives. We have missed a few opportunities, because we have been bold about Article 18, giving up on the key issues to promote growth: a serious investment plan and the issue of organisation and representation in the workplace. We will therefore vote for confidence, but we reaffirm our commitment to constant, strict and constructive supervision of the implementing decrees of the delegation law. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia's PDe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u98	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will say straight away that the Italian People's Party member of the LAG Group will vote for confidence today. I say this first because I would like to take advantage of your willingness - it is not often in this House that you have a minister who is so attentive to the problems that are being addressed in this House - to point out to you some questions of method, which I think are appropriate. This measure, in addition to being a delegated law, has already received two trusts in this House; it would have been much better if this had not been there today, because the greater the consensus could have been, but above all this would not have put us against a true reality, but still squeamish. I am referring to the fact that we are voting today for a vote of confidence on a text that comes from the House very modified compared to the one that came out of this House. The fundamental fact, which should be reiterated, is that the method serves its own in order to avoid those battles of religion which we have witnessed. I would like to make this speech with you, Minister, who I know come from the world of cooperation. I, who come from the world of enterprise, find this battle of religion in Article 18 truly stale. What is the merit of this measure? The merit is that it is photographing today a situation in the world of work that is completely different from what it was only a few years ago, and to this merit we give our trust. However, I listened to you this morning, Minister, very carefully, and I would like to present you with some reflections that I think are important, because they come from those who stand on the piece every day. You warned us this morning, saying: do we want entrepreneurs to try again to find ways that can be subterfuge to get workers who can be paid in a different way from what the regulations provide? Do we want the entrepreneur to always resort to something that can cost much less work? From your point of view, it is clear that the government is dealing with labour problems separately from the problems of the enterprise, and that concerns me very much. I say this also by verifying some measures that the Government has taken. This morning you said that hundreds of millions of euros were set aside for the supplementary fund by way of derogation and then that EUR 1.9 billion were set aside to reduce the tax wedge. Well, with concern I can only estimate that when a government placed 10 billion euros to pay the 80 euros in paycheck and 1.9 billion for the reduction of the tax wedge in the world of work shows that it has an absolutely short-sighted view of the crisis that currently lives in the country. The fundamental problem is not whether to preserve or abolish Article 18, because Article 18 has succeeded in securing millions and millions of unemployed in the last 20 years. The fundamental problem is whether this government wants to put companies in a position to start taking on again, where the crisis we are experiencing and which businesses are going through at the moment is even more dramatic, because today the point is if we manage to keep the existing employment levels unchanged. That's what you need to help us with. I would like this to be the vision that inspires the government and therefore you. I fully understand, Minister, that in the end there are campaigns that are - allow me - propaganda, but here I would like to reason on the facts and, as I have said, in a rather difficult situation, in which we are increasingly asked to vote for trust and the parliamentary debate is completely exonerated, I wanted to take advantage of this intervention to send you some reports. I hope that you will be able to share what I wanted to bring to your attention by the Government, namely the opportunity to come back and discuss with the parliamentary classrooms, because I believe that this can help and improve the measures. This measure could have been improved if there were no such haste that continues to obsess the Presidency of the Council. I believe that the measures that the country needs need to be given more attention and I would point out that the confidence that we are giving it today cannot be frustrated in the near future, given the approaching vote on the law of stability. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u100	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about a measure which, like everyone else, we are calling jobs act. Perhaps we should also ask ourselves and remember where this name comes from: perhaps from wanting to give a splash of modernization, using Anglo-Saxon and American terms. But if calling the draft law under consideration "jobs act " it was intended to recall the measure adopted by Obama in the United States, perhaps Renzi was wrong to interpret its content: the measure adopted in the United States provided for serious tax reductions for small and medium-sized enterprises and significant reductions in deductions paid by employers, interventions that we do not find in this measure. Giving a high-sounding name to something that may have a different meaning is a bit like going to the restaurant, being served a sausage that is doomed by the delicacy of pig in sauce of something. On the other hand, we are discussing a measure which should concern labour reform, but there is no trace of reform in the text. Above all, we do not see a measure that can reverberate the effective, definitive or decisive effects compared to a very serious problem in Italy. Much has been said about the tax wedge, about unemployment, about the exodus and about a myriad of problems that are not even so easy to deal with; I do not say to solve, but at least to deal with. The previous speakers have already mentioned that in a time of general crisis, of enormous economic crisis such as the one that is afflicting us all, work really becomes something absolutely valuable. Precious as your own home and like everything in life that allows you to keep your family. Instead we find ourselves imposing on real estate (it is absurd for families who today try to live on a single salary, when they have it) and a labour market that is overwhelmed by all the situations that have come to create. Now we are talking about the problem of work, but we must remember the big, massive problem of Italy, that is the fact that for a long time, economic policies, industrial policies and serious policies have not been developed. Having not done this we find ourselves in the end in the neck of the bottle because, in the end, all the knots come to the comb. It's a bit like when you're in front of a company in decoction; it's at that moment that you realize the mistakes: the wrong accounting mistakes and the wrong investments. It is in the end that one realizes how inconsistent the structure was. Today's problem lies precisely in the fact that in Italy any intervention must be strongly courageous because with the measures we are adopting the future of Italy is really at stake. On the other hand, we are faced with yet another measure painted with high-sounding names and illustrated with effective presentations (in which our President-in-Office is very good), but we would like to see what he will produce over time, what he will do with regard to the 40 million workers, the 3.5 million unemployed and the 400,000 exodus. Let us see how it will actually affect this measure. We have strong doubts and almost certain that this measure is not decisive. This is not the way to go. There are some elements that should be better developed, but it is certainly not by philosophizing Article 18 that the problems of work are solved. All of us, the government and the majority, should have the courage to take serious action, to make serious reforms. We really need it. We need it as someone who is on a sad avenue, in a decadence situation, and finds it difficult to reverse the course. We really need to worry. How should we be concerned about what is happening out of here: at the time when a measure is being taken, an area is being struck up to prevent the discontent of some people from reverberating, with reactions that are difficult to control, perhaps violent, coming to show the worst part of themselves. If this is the most left-wing measure of this Government, looking at the street movements organized by the unions, is it wondering what will happen in front of a measure that will have some right-wing hints? I think that all the complaints that have been made must probably also be heard, because all Italians must be listened to on this issue; all those who really want to say and express opinions, solutions and proposals must be heard and not remain deaf in an Italian situation like this. I imagine how difficult it can be to make decisions on the part of the Government in difficult situations such as these, but at least we have the decency - I am addressing the President of the Council of Ministers - to have no supposition and humility, as many members of the Government also show, to say: we have to deal with a problem, we have to listen to everyone and we have to have the opportunity to make serious reforms. On this measure, in camera caritatis, more than one has expressed doubts, not only us of the opposition; then the disciplines perhaps lead to different decisions and votes, but we know what the content is and which problems and concerns on this subject. We are now voting for confidence, but this is certainly not a way of saying: In the meantime, we have solved a problem with work. The problems of work are constantly faced, continuing to issue effective and decisive measures without stopping at this, but continuing to work. On the other hand, I would like to make one last point and reiterate once again our firm opposition to the instrument that is being used, namely that of trust. It is not possible to continue to arrive in these classrooms and to constantly impose and beg for trust. It is not possible to arrive on issues such as these, when Parliament has been denied the possibility of a debate on this issue. In fact, the problem is that internal problems can arise in the confrontation, and we cannot, with the vote of confidence, constantly try to put - pass me the term - almost under blackmail Parliament and the majority in order to bring home a measure. This is not the method, since all the people who are here have come to do a serious job and make a serious contribution. Parliamentary confrontation is crucial. We hope and hope that there will be a change and - indeed - a different way of interpreting the relationship between the Government and these Aules. I repeat: we must continue. Realize that outside it is not only the piazza manifestation, but it is all Italians who ask for it. It is time for serious solutions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u102	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u103	Madam President, if there is one particular thing that this Government has managed to do with this draft delegation law, which has actually divided the country, it has certainly been to unite the world of workers, the world of work. This was perhaps the best response to this way of working, inspired by the principle of divide and rule. The great event of October 25 and the many mobilizations of these days do not leave you indifferent. On 12 December, an important general strike was proclaimed, among other things not only by the CGIL, but also by the UIL: a completely obsolete fact that has not happened for years now. This should also make you think about how economic policies in Italy and Europe are not in line with the things that you then announced you wanted to do. On the other hand, this is a government that goes on its own path, without confronting the workers and those who know the labor effort, whatever it is, because all the jobs know their fatigue. It is a government that has chosen: it has chosen to be on the other side. In fact, you have chosen which side to stand on: on the side of those who are most interested in increasing their wealth and less in making the country grow. You have preferred to make particular interests prevail over general interests, but at least take responsibility for it and that is enough with this hypocrisy on the basis of which you resell this bill delegates as the only possibility to create new jobs, because you too have fallen into the famous theater of politics: presented right-wing, right-wing liberal policies, as innovative policies of a reformist left. We have all read the statements of Senator Sacconi, happy for having realized after years his reform of the job, that the left and the center-left to the opposition only a few years ago managed to block (not to mention then the announcements of the Minister Alfano). As you announce the numbers of jobs increasing, you forget to announce that many factories in Italy have closed or are closing. In Tuscany, for example, on the basis of the latest news, in Grosseto Eurovinil closes and sends home 102 people, in Livorno the multinational TRW, which we have all known for the offices of the police, evidently ordered by higher forces, closes and sends home 450 people, kneeling an entire city that in recent years has seen shut down many other companies. In both cases, your intervention was requested, but clearly your priorities are others. The list could continue: I am thinking of the workers and workers of Sulcis, or of Terni's AST. So in this country you are quitting despite your famous article 18, or at least what is left of it after the intervention of the Monti government, policies on which you are continuing. The Poletti decree, passed a short time ago, canceling the obligation of the causals, in fact made the term contract as a precarious contract and today you ask us to entrust you with a blank delegation to reform the world of work on the basis of generic principles and criteria that should inspire the implementing decrees. Several times we have been held as distrustful, to be prejudiced and not to let you work. Except that nothing stops you, but you have actually told your idea of work already in the law of stability, where everything is against work and rights. It is argued that to reactivate the market a good dose of collective trust is enough, it is enough to free it from the twentieth-century idea that the rights and safeguards of stable work can no longer be borne by the enterprise, it is enough to lower taxes to companies and not to families, and it is nothing if then this lowering of taxes decided to cover it with cuts in public spending, which obviously hit the weakest groups. Once the market is reactivated, you think that other jobs will magically be created. But today the market is not active because the economy does not work: incomes are low, whole families live on the poverty line, because even those who receive an income of 1,000 euros per month, in a family of four people, are poor. You are poor even if you have a job, but you live with the terror of losing it at any moment. You remain anchored to the old recipe, now failed, according to which to restart the markets you have to increase consumption and do not even think that with a crisis so fierce has changed our way of consuming. There are those who practice a conscious consumption but many, too many, who consume little because the money does not have them and many Italians, for necessity or to prepare for the worst, tend to save, as the story of the 80 euros has abundantly and widely demonstrated us. If the economy stagnates, the world of work will also be firm. At a time of crisis rather than cutting jobs, rather than cutting job certainty (that is, transmitting confidence) or changing the rules of work to make it less stable and less paid, hoping to activate in this way new job demand, public policies are needed, those about which Senator Uras spoke, saying that we are ancient and therefore public intervention policies are important for us to make work more stable and more paid. Active labour and labour policies, therefore, where public economic resources are committed, as is the case in many parts of Europe. Instead, we entrust the temporary agencies, carrying out the project of some Juslavorist, this type of work and, as Moody's has told us just these days, we will see, with the approval of the jobs act, a greater use of temporary employment agencies that will obviously increase their profit margins, because companies will resort more and more to temporary work. Many things we have not understood about this delegation: for example what you mean by contract to increasing protections, since you have not eliminated the myriad of precarious employment contracts. The feeling is that this new contractual form is added to the many already in existence. You said that they are all guaranteed in the same way; but what does it mean, that they are all precarious? In the end, the growing protection contract, coupled with the compensation for dismissal, risks transforming the new contract into a multiplicity of forward contracts. Well, I have to say, you guys were really good. Many interventions by the majority welcomed this measure, which will help young people to find work. However, do not say that the harmful effects of your measure are directed to young people, to the future of the country. The events of the ISFOL these days speak clearly: the creation of the National Employment Agency will have the first effect on the unemployment of 250 people, who for years have been monitoring and studying the developments in the world of work and have a leading role in the implementation of the programming of the European Social Fund and in its translation into policies and instruments for training, employment and social inclusion. Not to mention the difficulty of renewing contracts for young researchers. You talk about extending social shock absorbers, but you don't understand which categories of potential workers are involved, either the duration of the coverage or the resources available. We do not protect the weakest categories, which today are also excluded from the 80 euros, and we exclude significant areas of parasubordinate and autonomous work. It is estimated that they are needed from 10 to 20 billion a year, but between the resources available in the law of stability and the necessary ones there is a huge abyss, to the extent that today we can not guarantee at all income protection to the worker that the job really loses it. Not to mention the dramatic choice before which many workers will find themselves because of one of the many effects of the Fornero law, that is, the reduction of the years of mobility. Many industries, starting from the TRW in Livorno, are inviting the workers to leave just to be able to take advantage, by 31 December, of the possibility to obtain the three years of mobility. What are you doing in front of this mess? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Petraglia. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). In this case, we need to act quickly. Article 18 is irrelevant - I close, Madam President - and there is no need to fight it. On the other hand, we need less bureaucracy, speed, clarity on the rules and on the future. Surely we need more transparency, we need to fight corruption very hard, as we have seen these days. If foreign capital does not arrive and is not invested in this country, this is certainly also linked to the high rate of corruption that must be faced. There are many positive experiences in this country. Let's think about the story of the New Pignone, of which illustrious birthdays have been celebrated these days, where, despite article 18, it was decided instead to invest and assume, despite a troubled story through which this experience started. In that reality - and you have no excuses for that - a union like FIOM has 60 percent of the consensus; well, in that factory an agreement has been reached in these years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have to finish, Senator Petraglia. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I'm closing, Madam President. We believe that it is very important at this moment to give priority to the interests of the entire middle and working class and we think that your policies are completely wrong, because they favour the interests of a parasitic income and above all linked to those few who have become rich in these years. I think that, with these laws and with these actions and initiatives of yours, you actually contribute to disrupting the State, because you do not contribute to rebuilding that social and collective dimension of the State that this country urgently needs. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u104	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u105	Madam President, I read some extraordinary words: 'I believe in the beauty and constitutive value of memory' - but I think everyone believes in that. I love a sentence by James Matthew Barrie, Peter Pan's father, saying, God gave us the memory, so we can have the roses even in December. These are words that I read from the preface of Matteo Renzi to a small volume of which I suggest reading from the title: "Don't give up!." This passionate exhortation to memory and memory made me think of words that Matteo Renzi himself to open 2012 - post Christum natum, not before Christ - said in a television studio, to be exact guest from Santoro. What did Matteo Renzi say? Exactly this: There is not a single Italian entrepreneur who puts Article 18 as a problem. Because, they tell me, there is a problem of bureaucracy, of taxes, of justice, not of Article 18. And I've never even found a young man, temp, who told me: "I dream of Article 18." As far as I am concerned, Article 18 is a media problem. This was Matteo Renzi. It is obvious that not everything can be traced back to Article 18, because we should also remember Article 13 and Article 4; I would also like to mention Article 31 of the Workers' Statute, which was mentioned yesterday in an article by Marco Lillo and which allows our President of the Council and other politicians to benefit from a social security point of view, perhaps by harming all workers who honestly take the path of politics, having to be properly protected and not reaching this contribution in a privileged way. But that's it. There are those who work in the family business and those who, on the other hand, go to look for work and sweat it, perhaps even surpassing competitions, without having a working relationship that, after having been of collaboration, at 11, 8 or 7 days before the candidacy for President of the Province of Florence is transformed, becoming a permanent employment contract with managerial functions. The point is that we are receiving in full indications that international financial powers have addressed us in the famous summer of 2011, so three years ago, with a letter that was to be reserved, but that was published. We are increasingly reducing the cost of labour because we must be the future country of the former Western Europe in which companies from other countries will be able to relocate their productions, continuing that process by which workers - and only them - will have to pay the bill of a system that has bankrupted and failed. In fact, the cancer that has ruined the entire chain cannot only be poured into the weak link. We no longer invest - as we should - in innovation, technology and culture, and therefore our productive obsolescence, our inability to face up to the challenge of competitiveness linked to innovation press for that saving to be produced, by dumping it only on the weakest, on the last, on those who have no voice, that is, on the workers. This reform will be presented, as many of those who also sit on my left - I am referring to the friends of the New Centro-Rextra Group - as an epochal reform; in fact it will be yet another failed reform, because it will not produce anything positive and, if any effect will have, it will only be to worsen the conditions of the workers, precarious them further, because this is not the solution to the problems, it is not this intelligent flexibility. This is only a further reduction towards the slavery of a figure that has modernly established itself as a worker. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude your speech, Senator. MORRA (M5S). But I also want to address my colleagues on the benches on my right and, therefore, my colleagues in the PD. Yesterday I read a few statements by Mr D'Attorre, who complained that confidence is not only asked too many times, but also about a delegated law. It is useless to reason on trust as an institution that compresses parliamentary freedoms and offends the dignity of parliamentarians, who no longer know how to replicate and accept everything in order to keep alive a majority that suppresses all dignity in this Parliament. I would like to remind you of the figures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morra, please conclude. It is now over the time at your disposal. MORRA (M5S). Thank you, President. We have reached the twenty-ninth trust in 55 laws passed by this government. If the laws of ratification are removed, we are 74.3 percent of trustworthy demands. At this point, I would like to invite our President-in-Office of the Council, Matteo Renzi, rather than turning the Senate into something else, to close Parliament. Perhaps with what you will save, you will be able to give some resources to the work. At least, in this way, we would have respect for workers, since we do not have respect for parliamentary democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u106	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u107	Madam President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, we are yet another discussion of a measure adopted by the Government and which will be approved exclusively by means of the instrument of trust, in fact preventing the exercise of institutional democracy. We should have become accustomed by now, and this total lack of respect for the Italian people, represented by Parliament, shows that Prime Minister Renzi knows no bounds. Today, therefore, we are here to vote for a measure that says nothing, announced - as is now the custom of this Executive - with trumpet sounds as a solution to the problem of unemployment and the paralysis of the labour market, but that unfortunately will be only a huge empty box, a real damage to the country, which was waiting for the government to push the economy; a real damage to the millions of citizens who, because of the strong discomfort in which they are, hoped to get out of the employment crisis of these years; a real damage to the companies that expected the start of an economic cycle of growth, while the jobs act will not bring benefits to anyone. A few days ago Premier Renzi called the businessmen heroes of our day. Well, I can only agree with him for once. It is certainly an act of heroism, in fact, to decide to continue to do business in a country where 11,000 companies have failed since the beginning of the year. Consumption and industrial production stagnate. Unemployment is 13.2 and youth unemployment is 43.3 Moreover, the gross domestic product, since the beginning of the Renzi Government, is in constant negative trend. The last timid quarter of economic growth was that in which the country's leadership was entrusted to President Letta. These figures demonstrate a huge failure of the economic policies pursued by the current Executive: either they are totally useless or completely ineffective. The data, however, are also easily manipulatable for your own use. A few days ago the Ministry of Labour had the courage to send out, with pride, a statement in which they praised the effects of the Poletti decree, because of the more than 400,000 new employment contracts indefinitely. True. Too bad, however, that overall unemployment has increased by 300,000 units over the last 12 months, reaching the dramatic threshold of 3.4 million people who cannot count on a salary every month. In addition, Deputy Minister Morando admitted, in an interview published on Monday in the press, that the absolute number of employees may not increase, but probably many precarious employment relationships will turn into stable working relationships. However, we forget that stability, or even better employment growth, is only possible in a positive economic environment in which companies thrive and hire, rather than closing and firing as they do now. We must support domestic consumption, which has been falling steadily for too long and is the main driver of our economic growth. We must support Italian small and medium-sized enterprises, because they guarantee about 80% of employment, and it is precisely in SMEs that work is not only an economic component, but on the contrary employees are best valued for their human and professional skills. At this point I wonder whether we are dealing with a measure aimed at creating conditions for unlocking the labour market and reducing unemployment, as announced at the outset, at the start. I don't think most people know how to answer that. The jobs act is nothing more than a bill in which the basic principles are briefly known, but whose implementation must be outlined by specific decrees whose contents are not known. After the approval of the jobs act to the Senate, the Chamber made some changes, including the overcoming of co-ordinated and continuous collaborations and the partial backing back on the repeal of Article 18. The overcoming of co-ordinated and continuous collaborations risks capitalising on the labour market, reducing internal mobility, i.e. the transition from these contractual forms to those of fixed-term and indefinite work. Moreover, regarding the new contracts, that from the announcements will have to start from the beginning 2015 and will have to guarantee the increasing protections to the newly hired, to the Government I ask three questions: how will the passage to the new type of contract be guaranteed? What will that generic and nebulous statement recompense? What will be the expected progression? Once again the uncertain reigns and we rely on hope, waiting for the implementing decrees, which at best will be available only in a few months. The partial retrograde on the repeal of Article 18 represents a serious backwardness of the initial positions of the Government, which has yielded to the pressures of the unions and the left more radical of the PD, and the re-introduction of the reinstatement for unjustified disciplinary dismissals will certainly create confusion and numerous recourses to the judiciary, which will be called to express practically every measure taken by the companies in this sense. Let me also stigmatize the behaviour of the trade unions which, by exploiting the demagogic embrace of Article 18, have launched a corporate defence campaign to protect their organizations more than the workers they represent. They tried to contrast the workers with the entrepreneurs, on the typical vision of a society now far away, as if they were two opposing sides in which the victory of one involves the defeat of the other, when instead they both struggle together every day on the field of the real economy to ensure a future. It is precisely the trade unions who should understand that greater flexibility in labour relations creates new jobs, also thanks to the emergence of undeclared work, a real scourge for our society, an unacceptable shame for all those workers who unfortunately do not have the rights rightly attributed to them. Certainly this jobs act will not create new jobs. Minister, the right opportunity has been missed to set up a policy to support investment and demand, from which, of course, employment growth arises. The opportunity to lower red tape costs, boost productivity and reduce the tax wedge has been missed. But - even more serious - the opportunity has been missed to give a better future to young people and, more generally, to our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u108	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u109	Madam President, today, after a long parliamentary work, we are going to launch the first major organic reform. Let us be clear, not that those approved so far are less important, but are certainly limited to certain segments, to some particular elements of public affairs; others are in progress and we have had the first parliamentary passages. This is indeed the first comprehensive organic act capable of redesigning an entire sector, that of labour policies. Of course, today we hope that there will be majority support, but tomorrow the challenge is to adopt the legislative decrees. We have guidelines, but the most still to be done in terms of laws and implementing decrees. In fact, we know that in Italy the laws we do, often bad, but unfortunately even less well we manage to make the implementing decrees. So we have a great challenge in front of us who are waiting for us in the coming months and who will see us extremely committed. In this sense, I would like to make an appeal to the Government, which I am convinced will only share the fact that this implementation phase of the delegation must be the subject of a strong participation of Parliament, and in particular of the Commission's work. I am sure that this is already an understanding of the Government, but I think it is important here to highlight the opportunity that there is not only a formal passage in the Commissions. Perhaps it is good to wait a few weeks or a few more days, without wasting much time, in order to have a shared and careful solicitation and suggestion also from the parliamentary body. Among the many important elements of this measure, especially in the light of the confrontation had in recent weeks on the territories, doing conferences and participating in meetings, listening to many workers and entrepreneurs, I want to highlight only two issues. The first is the question that we ask ourselves and that has had an ambivalent answer from those who intervened before me. Will this measure be decisive in unlocking employment? Of course the answer is no, if we entrust this measure with an almost messianic and decisive expectation. If instead, more modestly, we think of the contribution that, together with other measures, the jobs act will be able to make, then we can say yes. (17.18) (LEPRI followed). Indeed, this measure will help to improve employment, allow more people to find a job and, above all, restore that confidence to the business world, which unfortunately - it is also confirmed by these days - has failed. In particular, I believe it is important that the combined arrangement that this Parliament is about to put in place at the same time provides for tax reductions with IRAP, decontribution (two important measures contained in the stability bill), and certainty of the cost of separation. We bet on this, on the fact that, by putting together certain allocations, certain tax reductions and the certainty of the cost of separation, when unfortunately there are demands of dismissal, this combined arrangement will give back momentum and confidence to entrepreneurs, even to foreign ones. We have had in these hours the news, which we greet with great satisfaction, of the agreement signed in Terni and only yesterday there was the agreement relating to the other steel works in Piombino. So these are two examples of foreign groups that perhaps - perhaps! - also thanks to this new energy that the Government and Parliament are about to recognize, they set out again in the bet in favor of our country. The same is true of small businesses: we have listened to many entrepreneurs who say that they have been stuck for many months, because they have been waiting for these measures: I am referring above all to entrepreneurs who are on the threshold of 15 employees, who are willing to make this leap, but who wanted the certainty of lower costs and a certainty also of possible dismissal at a certain cost of separation. Certainly, the combination of the measures that we are going to discuss in the law of stability with those provided for in the measure is also important, because we believe that the contribution of up to 8,000 euros for each worker, the reduction of bureaucratic constraints and the extension of the audience of the people who will benefit from these tax reductions can give a strong stimulus to entrepreneurs. The second consideration I would like to make before concluding concerns active labour policies: we face the great challenge of completely redesigning this sector, which has really shown little effectiveness. Unfortunately, this is also confirmed by the first data, which we hope can be modified, relating to the Youth Guarantee, which demonstrate a great difficulty in applying an important measure, also probably due to a certain anarchist regionalism or however little governed, which unfortunately appears more and more before our eyes. So, for example, the big bet we have in front of us is to rethink the role of regional and provincial agencies, which will no longer be the centres for employment, but which will have to assume a role of new governance, until now not adopted: it will probably be entrusted to private and non-profit agencies, while national, regional and local agencies will have the task to deal with the profile of workers, to credit third parties, to define the rates, to manage the voucher, to manage the relocation contract, in short, to deal with the government of those active policies that still, unfortunately, must see a real effectiveness in our country. Many alibis fall or are reduced, for everyone: for entrepreneurs, for politics, for workers. I just want to add a warning, in conclusion: we must not give up on the supervision of workers' protections. I am sure that the Government will not do so, and those who have raised this question will remain calm, because none of us - and certainly no one within this majority - wants to reduce the protection and rights of workers. But we take this warning with us and we are sure that it cannot be disregarded. For today, however, what we have put in place is enough for us and we are going to vote. We know that we are still facing great challenges, but for today these results are certainly not few. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u110	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u113	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in a few cases the position of the matter of trust has had political significance as in the case of the adoption of this measure, which substantially changes the rules of the labour market. It is in fact a bill that characterizes the government's agenda and, even earlier, its long-term strategy. A strategy that aims to adapt the country, its institutional, social and economic system to the profound changes that the world, Europe and Italy have experienced in particular in the last fifteen years. The globalization of the financial markets, the advent of the Internet, the modification of production models, the global redistribution of labour, the speed of change have required the individual countries to be able to adapt the production system, to convert workers' professionalism, and to adapt production systems to the very rapid changes in technologies. Those who have done so have resisted the crisis better and have avoided dramatic impacts in terms of unemployment, social hardship and the inability of the large amount of public expenditure intended for traditional shock absorbers to accompany workers in the crisis in order to bring them - protecting work and protection - to a flexible and changing market. Italy has not done so, and although it has been clear for many years now what the direction of change should have been - Senator Favero recalled just now the words of D'Alema of 1997: many years have passed, almost twenty - it has remained immobile, blocked by the vetoes of sectors of the world of work linked to productive models now more and more marginal in which, moreover, the union continued to have the main basis of its representation failing to represent the new complexity of the world of work and its new forms. Precisely this immobility, with the preservation of rules that have cast the labour market, has led to the impetuous development of countless forms of precarious contracts, which have taken away from two generations of young workers the possibility of enhancing their skills and their training, the impossibility of building a future, the dignity of conquering autonomy from the family of origin. This immobility and its consequences are a serious responsibility of the political system and I believe I am an important part of its delegitimacy. All this would in fact have required far-sighted institutions and courage, even at the cost of paying political prices in the short term, as the Social Democrat Schroeder did in 2000, whose social reforms made the SPD lose the elections, but put the conditions to rebuild the strength of the German economy. That is why it seems paradoxical to me who is talking in a hurry today. Unlike his opponents, the reform that we approve today in the third and final reading is a measure that tends to overcome that fracture, that dualism of labour law that generates profound injustice because it divides workers among the protected on the one hand (about 8 million) and on the other hand the little or nothing protected, in order to arrive at a system that tends to combine the maximum possible flexibility with the maximum possible economic and professional protection of the people who work through a universalist system of protection against unemployment. Therefore, the aim of this measure is to give effect, reality and substance to the fundamental principles contained in Articles 1 and 3 of our Constitution, namely the principle of equality first of all with respect to the fundamental value of our Charter, which is precisely work. It is frankly incomprehensible how those who base their identity precisely on equality of rights and social justice can counter this objective whose effectiveness clearly demands overcoming the current system. You cannot want the two things together: preservation of the old and change. Those who support it do not, in my opinion, do an intellectual honesty operation, but express a prejudiceally ideological rejection that tries to hide in a perennial well-otherstuff. Colleagues, the reform is not Article 18, used as a totem. The reform is: new social shock absorbers, reform of employment services, new labour contracts, simplification, legibility and transparency of labour market rules. These are the lines of action on which the reform is based, together with the fundamental fiscal measures contained in the Stability Act, which reduce the cost of contracts indefinitely, creating that tendency of cost convergence between fixed and indefinite time, which for a long time has been stressed as absolutely indispensable to overcome the convenience of precariousness. The text dismissed by the House, the result of a laborious compromise, does not affect the substance of the measure. On the new contracts are important the radical simplification of contractual forms and the overcoming of the most hateful forms of precariousness that have represented in recent decades often the only forms of work known by young people who, entering the labour market in the last 20 years, have not come out of it, always maintaining the same form of uncertainty and impossibility to build their future. The extension of maternity protection to workers, whatever the contractual form, is aimed at overcoming the shameful situation of workers who disappear from the labour market and silently become invisible because they have no recognition and no protection. And this is also a non-secondary reason for demographic decline in our country. On Article 18 the decrees delegated will clarify all the doubts that emerged during the debate, but maintaining the principle of reinstatement for discriminatory contracts and defining the cases, including disciplinary cases, so that in court these cases cannot be dilated until in fact constitute the illegality of the worker, as happened in the past. Now, it is clear that this is not the only way to create employment miraculously. For this to happen, it is essential that there is a clear reversal of the economic cycle. But this reform is certainly a sine qua non so that Italy can seize the opportunities of recovery and ensure that, in a globalized market, capital recognize in our country in which it is possible to invest. This is why labour market reform is considered, by the financial markets and the European Union, an essential index (although obviously not the only one) to believe that recovery is also possible in Italy and that, therefore, our public debt, in the medium term, remains sustainable and financially viable. Ladies and gentlemen, if this did not happen, we would return to the terrible situation of November 2011. There are two points, however, which remain, in my opinion, sensitive and critical, and have rightly been highlighted by many speeches. Firstly, the resources made available by the new shock absorber system: resources which are now sufficient, since there will be a gradual move to the new system, but which, in the future, will also have to be strengthened, but not only, through the gradual conversion of part of the enormous sum absorbed by the current system. A system that finances, sometimes for years or decades, jobs that will never come back active and abandon workers to themselves. But there is another critical point on which the Government will have to spend with commitment, because this is the ground on which reforms fall in Italy: that is, their administrative management, because this will require to clear out an inefficient system and to proceed to a thorough review of the regional system of vocational training, without giving in to corporate resistances or interest groups that sometimes feed on that system. And the National Agency will have to ensure uniform standards of quality on national territory because, otherwise, on a very delicate terrain like work, we will have a dramatic disparity of rights. On this point, the responsibility of the Government is enormous and we will ensure that we move in the right direction. In confirming therefore the convinced vote of confidence of the senators of the Civic Choice Group, allow me to address among all a special thanks to Senator Ichino, who for this reform is considered one of the fathers and who has dedicated his scientific and political commitment to it in recent years, as well as his civil passion. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u116	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Autonomies welcomes the final green light that the Senate today gives to the so-called jobs act or, better, the delegated law for labour market reform. Our Group regards this measure as an important signal, much awaited by national operators, but also by Europe in order to get closer to the objective of a market regulated in a more modern and flexible way. We have always stressed the need to simplify and improve the discipline of permanent employment contracts in order to make them more convenient and attractive to businesses, leaving them more free to organise production processes and removing obstacles that discourage hiring. At the same time, however, workers' rights must also be safeguarded by the introduction of effective deterrents and sanctions for the most serious cases of illegal dismissals. We welcome the fact that we have focused on active policies to meet demand and supply and that we have introduced safeguards for those who have not so far. In order for the labour market to become dynamic, effective action must be taken to train and relocate workers. In this context Italy should finally introduce the dual system for vocational training, which has been practiced for decades with great success in Germany and Austria, but also in the province of Bolzano. This system not only contributes to the formation of skilled labour, but also to the effective fight against worrying youth unemployment. Having simplified the jungle of contracts, as will be the case with the implementation of this delegation, will also help attract foreign investors. We therefore hope that in the implementing decrees that will be issued shortly by the Government and that they will give the final shape to this provision will find a balanced solution to dissolve the node of Article 18. For the reasons set out above, I am voting in favour of our Group. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Puppato and Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u119	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the LAG Group, and as chairman I must say that some of the Group's senators will vote for the government and many others will not. Personally, I am one of the latter, i.e. those who will not vote for it. I remind myself and colleagues that everything we are doing comes from Article 94 of the Constitution. Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, as in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, refers to the question of trust that the Government can put on the objects subject to the vote of the Assembly and this is done by practice, and therefore by constitutional doctrine and jurisprudence, but not because specifically attributed as prerogative by the Constitution. A note as a result of the junta for the Rules of Procedure of this branch of Parliament states that the question of trust does not create a debate in its own right, but is a framework for the main subject of which we are debating. It says this with regard to the fact that, as a framework, the general debate must be renewed and that the general debate is a right of all Members of Parliament. Parliament's right to intervene in the debate on trust is renewed. However, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate states an important thing, namely that the question of trust is a matter of its own and I, rather than what I think is a small picture surrounded by a large and excessive framework that is the question of trust, of the latter I would like to talk about. Why? Because this frame is the thirty-first that the Government sells to the Italians and is a frame a bit 'douche, because it tries to hide the truth, saying that it could be the twenty-ninth in that they do not count the two trusts obtained by the Government when it formed. On the other hand, the Renzi Government, saying: "I have done 30, I do 31" does nothing but repeat an ancient Florentine habit. They say: "I did 30, I do 31" because the son of Lorenzo the Magnificent, Pope Leo X, said this when, preparing a list of 30 cardinals, he realized he had forgotten one. He added it in front of the amazement of the cardinals present at that moment saying, precisely: I made 30, I can make 31. Here, this Tuscan presumption - will excuse me the Florentines and the Tuscans, in general - belongs very much to the President of the Council who says: I've done 30, I'll do 31. However, always resorting to trust in order to pass a measure, in my opinion (don't criticize my colleagues who will be forced, for their belongings, to vote for it), is not a serious matter. It is like saying by party taken (party taken by the government that states that this is a good law and must be voted on and this possibility is overshadowed by constitutional doctrine): this law is the word of the government, it is the word of king. But the last to say: "Word of Kings" was King Faruk at Casino Sanremo when the other player wanted to see the aces poker he declared and, in order not to show him, between the serious and the facet and with the arrogance that was given him by being King Faruk, said: "Poker of Aces." King's word. This word of king, however, made Faruk one of the most cited but no longer edifying in the bibliography of the biographies of the past. And it seems to me that Renzi is not doing anything more to improve the state of his biography. But let's go back to the frame. The frame - I was saying - is a bit faggot: it is a big and big frame of a small picture. I don't want Senator Ichino who has all our affection, but he will have to agree that the picture is a little abstract. It is a vague delegation, with very strong inconstitutionality (just because it is vague) because it has too large a perimeter of the decrees to be issued, because it is an evanescent delegation rather than a guarantor of increasing protections. It is an indeterminate, indistinguishable delegation (it has been said several times in this House), with the sole aim of introducing, rightly, a better search for a renewed - Professor Ichino - balance between those seeking work and those offering it. That's the real news. It is a very important philosophical novelty, but the Government with confidence betrays the duty to discuss it and to have it discussed in Parliament. At this point I am tempted by a naughty woman, President Calderoli (she will understand me because she is very experienced with naughtyness). I've been wanting to do this for a long time, but it didn't seem very serious to me. I would like to quote an advertisement (by law we are all over forty years old and we will remember it), that is the Galbani advertising that said: "Galbani means trust". Well, I trust this government, which is not the Galbani Government, I don't give it. I trust Renzi cheese, Mr President, allow me and allow my colleagues, I do not give it. And I don't give it because this isn't a serious government. Because it is not serious to go to Algeria and declare in a press conference that the problems of Italian steel will be solved by Algerian agri-food entrepreneurs! It is not serious to talk about electoral law when the form of government has not yet been established, as everywhere is written in the texts of constitutional doctrine! In order to talk about electoral law, we should first have made a decision on the form of State and, then, on the form of Government. It is not serious to say to everyone: "Stay calm", then don't make the law on bureaucracy, don't do the law on justice, don't do the law on the environment, talk about school and put only two articles in the law of stability where you talk about everything, but you don't decide anything. Minister Poletti, I wrote your name because you are famous, but this will not go down in history as a Poletti reform: this will be the Renzi reform and should be happy because it is not a good reform. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] However, Minister Poletti, it would have been different if, instead of putting the issue of trust in the least seriously, the government had put the measure to the vote. Maybe - I mean me too - he would have had better luck. But for this very reason, it is not a serious government and I do not vote for this government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Di Maggio, Liuzzi and Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u120	I greet the students and teachers of the Institute for Industrial Services and Crafts (Majorana-Sabin) of Giarre, in the province of Catania, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u123	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief, but it will not just be an explanation of vote, but a real declaration of war against this reform. A statement prepared and shared with hundreds and thousands of pissed off people, whom we North League meet every week on the territory. Minister, I do not mean parliamentarians who say that with 80 euros we spend two weeks or MEPs making a list of how many times they go to the beautician or ministers that lately we see banquets with mafia capiclans, but concerned people: unemployed men, women and young people, exodus and families in difficulty. The saddest thing is to see how you, Senators of the Democratic Party, have always stood up for the world of workers under a red flag with sickle and hammer. At least you made us believe that. Among you there are also those who have an important union history behind them; and as a Venetian I cannot but mention Giorgio Santini, trade union manager since he was 23 years old: arrived at retirement, he cut off the ticket for Parliament. Basically, he never worked. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I would be curious to know how much he retires; I hope less than his former boss, Raffaele Bonanni. Decades of union, never worked, is now in Parliament: at least defend the workers! [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Says one who has never voted on the left, but who has been a worker for many years. But no: Santini, like everyone else, hypocrites of politics, exponents of the Democratic Party... [[He lives protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u124	Colleagues, if no one transcends and makes political assessments, everyone has the right to say what he wants.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u125	[[Reiterate protests from the PD Group.]] Go on, Senator Munerato. MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). He got on the PD bus and approved everything, give a damn what his story would require him to do. There is so much talk about Article 18 and increasing protection: words, words, words. We want to bring you back to reality. We turn especially to you, who say you are leftist, but you have never tasted precariousness and you are with your butt in the heat and the pension that arrives beautifully swollen in the bank account. The real drama for those who work today is the ease with which they can be fired. Who began to destroy the rights won by the workers with decades of union battles, especially of your beloved left? The Monti Government and Mrs. Crocodile Tears of Elsa Fornero. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What happens with the Fornero law passed in 2012? The labour court, faced with dismissal for economic reasons, recognizes compensation between 12 and 24 months. If the reasons for dismissal are manifestly unfounded, the judge may also order the employer to take the worker back into his employment. In practice, Fornero has opened the doors to the use of workers as commodities. Don't I need you anymore? I'll give you 20,000 euros and leave you at home. So the lower the employee's qualification, the easier and less expensive it is for an entrepreneur to hunt a worker. With this crisis, anyone can say at any time that economic reasons exist. How does the judge say it's not true? And so with a handful of euros you get rid of anyone. In practice, Fornero has made the last more and more servants. The workers have to say yes, be quiet, perhaps be mocked, jokes of the leaders, because as soon as they raise their heads they can be hunted. Basically, we're back to the master and the servants. The dignity of the last can be trampled on by law! Who approved the Fornero reform? The Democratic Party, which stems from the fusion of the evolution of the Communist Party and the most left-wing part of the Christian Democracy, the natural references of the two most important unions in Italy, the CISL and the CGIL. Congratulations! Congratulations indeed! Are you sure your constituents know that? We'll take care of the North League, let them know! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Because you have become the Industrialist Party, not a People's Party. So, however, it became the labour market with the Fornero law. But Renzi, with his jobs act, is doing much, but much worse. If the job act is approved, the faculty of the reinstatement in the workplace will be permanently cancelled and the judge will only be able to provide for a certain and increasing economic compensation with the seniority of service. Congratulations, President Renzi! Congratulations to the Democratic Party! Congratulations to Giorgio Santini! Your pension won't be touched. He who, from the age of 23, defended, on paper, the workers, today approves of death... [[Protests from the PD Group.]] CARDINALI (PD). What's that got to do with anything? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Munerato, let us forget the colleagues who have been repeatedly called into question. You can speak very well by addressing this House and me. MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Okay. I was saying that Giorgio Santini today approves the death of decades of workers' struggles. It's all legal, there's nothing else, but it's good for your fellow citizens to know, to realize who they sent to Rome to represent them! Meanwhile, your union, the CGIL, has said that it will come with us to the North League to vote for the repeal of the Fornero law. Now we just have to wait for the Constitutional Court to approve the referendum question. And when we have the green light, the death of the Democratic Party will come true, the end of the illusion that the PD is a leftist party close to the weakest, the people, the last! To vote against Fornero there will be a party not leftist, but the North League and the most leftist union, the CGIL. We'll see what people do and, in my opinion, people will be on our side. It will only remain to be understood whether you will once again raise the level of your hypocrisy and whether you will remain in your positions, perhaps by supporting our referendum, as the CGIL has lately done. But it will be too late for you, because we in the North League will be there to remind everyone that you do it only out of opportunism, because you are not only privileged, but also squalid politicians and without values... [[There are protests from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u126	No! Senator Munerato, I officially recall you for this appreciation that exceeds your possibility of intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u127	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Be patient, I'm one of the people and I'm used to talking like this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not about the people this time. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). But what people? You don't even know what the people are! Go to work! MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). I conclude by saying that the North League is on the side of those who work honestly, of those who struggle to find a job, on the side of the exodus, which you once again have deceived! So the North League will not vote for this government. We are at the side of those who work honestly, and not at the side of the Mafia leaders. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u128	Callbacks apply to the senator as to the responder.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u129	MIRABELLI (PD). He just told us mobsters! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). My fault, ma'am, call me back.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u132	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have always thought that fairy tales could be told to children. However, I do not think it is serious that even in the Italian Parliament we should continue to talk about fairy tales. You see, Minister (I would like some attention, please), I have been taught that increasing safeguards can be defined as such if laws and our Constitution are to guarantee them; it is very simple. On the contrary, if they depend on the discretion and goodness of the master, they become a charity, things of the past, old things, that generations before us have struggled to erase and that have brought nothing good, because charity cannot be at the discretion of the master. The world of work must be guaranteed by the laws and our Constitution; and so it is not with this jobs act. That is why we in SEL will never be able to vote for such a reform. It is an unconstitutional evil, I add, because it is unconstitutional and everyone knows it. As the Fornero reform was unconstitutional. After the Fornero reform - it is clear that this Government is not careful - there have been so many layoffs. I read daily reports of sick workers, workers with big problems, workers who reacted to an insult and were dismissed; and this Government says absolutely nothing. This should be the job for us: to guarantee that serenity - because we are talking about this - that this Government unfortunately does not want to guarantee. And then stop saying that the debate was true and that there was a broad debate, because it is not true, Minister, it is absolutely not true: we must do justice to the truth. In the Commissions nothing was discussed, because it was all armored and there was a hurry of the soul to close this delegation work. We were practically forbidden to discuss anything that could be improved. I have to say that it is difficult to improve this mess you have made; but we wanted to try seriously and we were not allowed to do so. Everyone who really wanted to contribute to the debate knows that and can testify before and after me if they want to. So let's not talk about discussion, because there was absolutely none of this. We wanted to talk about serious things. For example, we wanted to talk about the last sentence of the European Court of Justice, which is important. I understand that the first point of the job act intervenes right there, on the causality of dismissal; but we have not been given a chance to talk about this. This is a real debate: to discuss the amendments and to discuss the agenda. That has not been the case at all, but you, in order to make the public believe that there has been a broad debate and a broad one, do not understand what, say falsehoods and lies, which do no honour to anyone, Minister. That's the truth. We are talking about alarming data; many have said so before me in this House. Unemployment is now three and a half million people; overall unemployment is 13.2%, while youth unemployment is 43.3%. And the only thing you could do very well was detach the overtime. You have endorsed this choice: because there is no work, the overtime is charged. But pretend you don't understand: facilitate companies that, instead of hiring, detax the overtime, that is they pay less overtime hours compared to ordinary hours! Good choice, I must say, just a choice that meets the occupation. But this could not be discussed in the Commission, because - I repeat and I regret to say this - the work in the Commission was armored and there was a rush of soul. And when you're in a hurry, you never do things right. Remember that. How can we not fight the Fornero reform, which increases the retirement age? What are we talking about? Of the Youth Guarantee programme? Minister, please. As far as I am concerned, and history teaches this, the first guarantee of our young people should be to send them to school, because sending our young people to school is synonymous with progress and civilization in this country. In fact, an educated young man can guarantee something better for our country; instead, we want to send the children to work when they are fifteen years old. It is not that our young people no longer go to school for this decree, but because their parents can no longer send them to school. This is the drama that you do not want to understand; that is what we wanted to discuss, but we were not given the opportunity. In the same way, we wanted to discuss what all this actually conceals: it is not just Article 18. Other than reducing the types of contract: the truth is that you want to cancel the national contract of employment! Competition must therefore be wild competition between the territories, because they want to endorse the company contracts: this is the truth that unfortunately you want to deny, subtracting you from the discussion on these issues. You want to keep coming to this House and saying things that are neither in heaven nor on earth. The truth that hurts you is that you are endorsing what you have fought - and I am speaking honestly and without any presumption to the comrades of the Democratic Party - in Article 8 of the Sacconi reform: now you are endorsing it. Please, I repeat, please return to your steps, because it is not the right way! President Renzi is growing - rightly - by 37% of the citizens who go to vote; then I do not understand whether representation, like democracy, is variable depending on the circumstances (I do not think it should be so): you are erasing those in the world of work who represent 60-65 percent of the workers who have the right and go to vote; this is what you are canceling and it is not good because people far more authoritative than I have said that from this crisis, Minister, you can only come out with participation, not by blows of confidence and arrogance, remember it well and remember it all. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] We come out of the crisis, I repeat, with participation: it is not I who say it, but people much more authoritative. Just be careful reading things. You wanted to reduce the forms of contract: but we want to talk about what you have done with vouchers, extending their use, not only to agriculture, but a little 'to everything, so a worker should now go to tobacco shop to buy a voucher to be able to work? Minister, I would ask you to think about this, and I say this with the highest possible education and respect, because it will not bring any occupation; on the contrary, it will take it away. And do we want to talk about demise and remote control? Gentlemen, does a worker have to go to work or does he have to do something else? I did not understand what a worker should do: it seems that we must send him to do an experiment on Mars! It must no longer go to a place of work, to a factory, to work in serenity, I repeat, in serenity; it seems that we must send it to do experiments and that the work has become something incredible! On the contrary, work is a much simpler thing than what is meant by it. But here too you pretend not to understand: in fact, the real problem is not that you do not understand: it is that you refuse to listen to those who are in contact with the world of work every day and perhaps can give you advice. That is why we will never and never vote for this reform, because we in the Mixed SEL Group - I think I can speak for the whole Group - are for a job and for a social life; we are not for a job that becomes servile, as has happened in the past. You want to cancel the Workers' Statute - and I don't say it, your government allies have said it - sending it to the attic after 45 years! I remind you that the Workers' Statute is a law of the State, and those who fear the law are afraid of democracy! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino and De Pin. Congratulations. The Senators of the Misto-SEL Group show signs bearing the writings: "Statute of workers' rights" and "Jobs Act," return to the 800th anniversary.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u133	Colleagues, let's pick up those signs. I call on Parliament's assistants to withdraw the cartels. Given the chronic absence of our quaestors senators, let us proceed in this way. (Parliamentary assistants remove from the hands of the Senators of the [[Mixed-SEL Group cartels showing cameras in the gallery]] Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u136	PAGE (NCD). Mr President, Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure on which we are called to vote today is that delegation in the field of work which we examined two months ago, on which the Government has gained the confidence of the Senate and to which the House has introduced some changes, without changing its basic approach, but rather confirming and strengthening its overall structure. For these very reasons, I would first like to reiterate all the comments I have already made in this House at first reading and, in particular, the notations made by President Sacconi at the time. The first essential consideration concerns the general value of this text, which, in the overall parliamentary work, has made use of the sense of collaboration between the members of all political forces, by making use, in the Senate's work committee, of the great capacity for mediation of President Sacconi, to whom our affectionate greeting goes, and of the active participation of the Undersecretary Bellanova, whom I thank on behalf of the whole Group of the New Right Centre. I would also like to thank the excellent and valuable work done by the Commission's offices in this second parliamentary passage of the measure. The delegation text that we are going to vote on is the result of the meeting of left and right reformists, who with this measure really want to give a turn to the labour market in Italy, overcoming the conservative resistances that still oppose it. It is a sound and solid text in its content; a text that combines the principle of working flexibility - which is increasingly indispensable in a labour market that changes very rapidly - with that of worker safety, and which is based on certain rules and short-term deadlines. The first objective is, in fact, that as early as January 1, the first delegated decree is available, the one relating to new contracts without a time limit. In the various parliamentary passages, subject to the original layout, certain amendments have been included in the text, some of which are proposed by the oppositions. Moreover, the Government has accepted many agendas of oppositions, making important commitments in matters covered by the law delegation and in the spirit of the same: regarding social shock absorbers, with particular regard to a gradual transition to the new regime and the provision of appropriate instruments to combat poverty and, as regards active policies, with specific reference to the occupational integration and social inclusion of people with disabilities and the protection of workers with serious diseases. The Commission has also undertaken to assume non-formal obligations on very sensitive issues, such as simplification of procedures, with specific regard to the protection of safety and health at work and the electronic certification of absences for illness, and in the area of reconciling living and working time, with a special consideration for workers suffering from oncology. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm with deep conviction what I had already said in this House last time: we are faced with a historic turning point, which will enable us to overcome that policy which has for decades been the protection of workers and, in any case, the detriment of entrepreneurs. This bill of delegation represents, in fact, the last act of a laborious journey on the path of simplification and working flexibility, initiated in 1997 with the first law conceived by Marco Biagi and known as Treu law, continued with the policies for the work of Marco Biagi and Maurizio Sacconi, interrupted by the approval of the Fornero law, which reintroduced many rigidities into the system, and today resumed by the coalition government currently in office. This conviction stems from the unpreconceived consideration of the current reality of markets and businesses and, therefore, the need to adapt to a globalized market characterized by a strong and widespread global competition. Today it is no longer possible to maintain a world of work compressed by ancient prejudices that, by castting the market and businesses, stifle and aridize the potential and initiatives of companies, with deleterious effects on employment and workers, who are therefore the first victims of taboo daughter settings surpassed by history and reality. The reform of the labour market that we are going to vote on is therefore intended to turn the page over to a system that has now passed; it opens a page inspired by the increase of investments, the simplification of chaotic legislation and a new contract of work simpler and more economically working, freed from the excesses of rigidities and of tax honesty. The question so much discussed, often in an instrumental way, of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute must therefore be considered in the context of the overall structure of the reform, with the aim of preparing the instruments to deal with the crisis of enterprises and the alarming peaks of unemployment. In this sense, the delegation, in introducing the contract without a time limit to increasing protections, opens to a new statute, since it will allow the drafting of a simplified organic text of the disciplines of contractual typologies and working relationships; and this all the more convinces if reference is made to the objective, several times declared by the Government, to spur the use of the contract indefinitely, on the one hand making it cost less than any other and on the other eliminating constraints and uncertainties that until now have blocked the intentions to assume of entrepreneurs, both Italian and foreign. It would therefore be superficial to limit the assessments of the vital characteristics of the law delegates to the notorious Article 18. This debate prevented us from looking at the other fundamental aspects of the delegation law: and therefore at the revision of the discipline of social shock absorbers, which will be completed and made stronger and more reassuring; at the reform of employment services, aimed at affirming the principle of integration between public service and services offered by private agencies; and at safeguarding the needs of care, life and work. These are aspects of absolute importance in the lives of workers, families, young people seeking work as those who have lost it and want to find it again; but these are aspects on which silence descends on the part of those who criticize and attack the reform starting from conceptions linked to a pre-constituted ideological imprint. Times are tight, you have to act quickly. Already the first decrees delegated that will be delivered to the Chambers for the intended opinion will have to offer certain rules and useful to encourage new hirings with permanent contracts. These measures will also help us in our relationship with the European Commission, because it is structural reforms, starting from work, that allow for the flexible interpretation of budgetary discipline and a new departure from the market and the whole economy, the real safeguard of employment and workers. If we do not therefore strongly support this opportunity, we should respond to ourselves and to the citizens, to the workers, the responsibility for preventing this transition to the future of our country. In short, the senators of the New Right Centre can be truly satisfied, because a decisive step has been taken for the definitive launch of the more organic reform of the labour market after the Workers' Statute, forty-five years after its approval, which took place in a social and economic context quite different from the present. Parliament's work has made it possible, in particular, to introduce a specific delegation to the full replacement of the statute, with the exception of the trade union alone, through a single text that is innovative and simplified. Just as Parliament's work has replaced the unnecessary hypothesis of a two-step permanent contract - first deregulated three-year period and then old Article 1 - with a monetary protection contract related to the seniority of service in the event of unjustified dismissal, with very limited exceptions close to discrimination. And, since the contractual models are five or six, and not forty, as those who do not know then decline them, the same revision of the typologies will take into account the complexity of the works and the disastrous effects of the Fornero law. As for the labour market institutions, the necessary complement to the delegations will have to be the transfer of competences from the Regions to the State, also in the light of the disastrous results of the Youth Guarantee programme. An epochal turning point for a nation still blocked by its ideological twentieth century, in which the cultural effects induced will perhaps be even more important than the direct ones. For these reasons, with the pride, as a political force, of having been supporters and supporters of a historic measure in Parliament, I declare the vote in favour of the New Centre Group on the measure. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u139	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by saying that I would not call this a reform, because in order to make and implement a true reform, we must invest financial resources, in human capital, in social matters; we must help those who, at the moment in Italy, are unable to work or live. Today we are about to vote, for the second time in this House, the law delegates with a text that is in fact identical to that adopted by the Senate two months ago. The judgment of the 5 Star Movement on the installation of the delegation law can only be confirmed deeply negative. The text remains critical about the level of protection guaranteed to workers to whom Article 18 will not apply and the total discrepancy between the objectives that the draft delegation proposes to achieve and the measures put in place by the jobs act, which are totally inadequate and counterproductive. The historical dualism within the labour market remains and is strengthened: the mechanism that provides for new recruits to be able, in the event of economic dismissal, to benefit only from economic compensation, will make our labour market even more fragmented (which I would call no longer a market, but a world of work); not only will there be the historical dichotomy between atypical and typical, because it will be flanked by the one created by this delegation, the difference between new recruits and historical workers, with heavy consequences in terms of turnover and corporate mobility. The government, therefore, which aims in words to break down the barriers in our labour market, today actually raises another. The structural shortcomings of the delegation law, which I would like to reiterate here, remain well-known. Firstly, we do not invest in employment services and active policies, as is evident in the stability bill. We cannot say that we are pursuing or trying to adapt to Europe, because the Member States, when they have done real labour reforms, have invested large financial resources. Moreover, this measure acts on labour costs through the possibility of demand and hence of reducing the wage of the worker; it introduces remote controls; it widens the possibility of recourse to ancillary work; it lowers contractual safeguards without guaranteeing effective protection in the market; it does not provide for investment in tax and social policies to support income for the less well-off. In this respect I must necessarily contradict Senator Pagano, who said that the delegation provides for support for poverty. In the law delegates this is provided as a general criterion, but in the bill of stability there is nothing of the kind [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , except for the forecast of EUR 80 for workers, i.e. those already working. I remind you that 15.8% of Italians are at risk of poverty. Not to mention, as mentioned before, the new regulation on dismissals: a recently introduced legislative system, given to us by the Fornero law, with a new legislative system, is to be reported. Since the previous plant was already very restrictive of its own, it was not possible to see the slightest need to upset the discipline of dismissal for the umpteenth time. In addition, I would point out to this House that Italy, even before the delegation, has put a high degree of flexibility in the labour market, even higher than that of Germany and the vast majority of European countries: statistics tell us that. So we didn't need to put flexibility in it again: rather, we should have invested in services, active policies, guidance, income support and reorganization of employment services. The paradoxical aspect of this whole affair is the fact that the Government presents this bill as a measure to revive the Italian economy: it uses a very sophisticated and very British name, such as "jobs" but in the factual reality, of jobs, that is, of jobs, the measure will bring few or nothing of them, indeed will accentuate the slow decline of the Italian economy. Let's take the latest data from ISTAT on the labour force situation in Italy. It seems to read a war bulletin: the Minister and we all know him well. Unemployment touches the record level of 13.2%, an increase of 0.3% compared to the previous month, a figure that has never been this high since 2004. Compared with September, employment fell by 55,000. Of course, the unemployment rate for young people is rising further. The numbers are under everyone's eyes. This government was not even able to make good use of the few resources that came from Europe and that could have given a breath, albeit very small, to some of the young Italian unemployed. I am talking about the Youth Guarantee programme and I am addressing all those who have spoken about it in this House. The Commission is well aware that the Youth Guarantee programme in Italy is a failure: nothing has been implemented by the regions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So if you think that this program should be the basis for creating the new structure and organization of employment services in Italy, you say a great falsehood, a lie, to this Assembly and to the Italians. I invite you to see the numbers and to listen to the hearings we have held and which we are holding with the regions, precisely with regard to this programme. These are the effects within the Italian economic system of the work act appetizer and what caused the Poletti decree: we were told that the introduction of the fixed-term contract, as it had been desired by you, Minister, and your Government, would help to combat youth unemployment, which instead has grown: so we have solved nothing. These are the effects of a labour policy guided not by the interests of one's own nation, but by the economic interests of the lobbyists of European technocracy. That the contents of the jobs act will not have a positive effect on small and medium-sized enterprises is a fact. They do not fall within the scope of Article 18, they do not have top management hierarchical organization and demand does not know what it is. Small and medium-sized enterprises (they, not the multinationals, represent 94% of our productive fabric) need a streamlined and efficient bureaucracy, a tax that does not oppress them and a comprehensive and accessible system of tangible and intangible infrastructure. We know, however, who will benefit from these rules contained in the jobs act. They will benefit the big multinationals, who come to Italy not to invest, but to take advantage of the opportunities guaranteed to them and, once squeezed well the workforce, flee to another country. Don't say it's not like that. We work in emergency, and I tell Senator Lepri that he mentioned the cases of ThyssenKrupp and Lucchini di Piombino, while I can mention Berco, Micron and other companies that are leaving, after exploiting our intellectual property and sending our workers home. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All this is combined with the inability to predict a real, serious and clear economic development of our country: there is no work-related programming. What we are proposing is not what you are proposing, because we need an organic policy to implement our proposals. We propose security combined with flexibility, linked to process and product innovation, based on technological and research investments and investments in terms of worker training, which certainly cannot be made by taking as the basis Youth Guarantee and its failure to make a contribution in Italy. With this type of flexicurity, the worker is guaranteed not only constant retraining especially in the company, but also income support in case of loss of work. In the countries where this system has been applied - I am thinking for example of Denmark - there has been an increase in productivity, protection of the nation's businesses and it has brought benefits. We propose that citizenship income be immediately established and that support be provided for the 10 million people living at risk of poverty, for the precarious, for pensioners, for the children who have lost the future, for the 16% of young people who leave Italy because they no longer have a future here, and to whom we cannot propose Youth Guarantee. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because you have to do a lot more for them. We say no to this law delegates: not reform, Minister, but delegation law. We have no faith in this government, nor in this bill. [[Live applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u142	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in this debate, unfortunately very short and not enough to outline the aspects of a delegated law that should define the prerequisites of labour market reform (in fact, as far as we are concerned, a non-reform, a lack of labour market reform) from now on for the years to come, we have already anticipated our position. We have already done so during the 'Girone' round, when, unfortunately, our expectations have been deeply disappointed that we have tried to cooperate in the Commission and in this House by submitting a reasonable number of amendments. Amendments certainly not emulatory and not obstructive (Minister Poletti is witness of this) that, however, unfortunately have not penetrated the wall of the incommunicability of the government. The Government has produced a measure, as I anticipated, which does not create structural or cyclical effects on the labour market. A measure that creates constitutional effects: we are at 31st confidence - as my previous colleagues reminded me - we are at the further humiliation of the work of this Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Poletti, I would ask you to believe that these are not words of expression of a formal fact, but of substance. We are forced every time to trust measures on which we can only intervene to a very limited extent, and this frustrates, perverts and ruins not only the faculty, but the duty of these parliamentary classrooms to participate deeply in the process of formation of the law and, in particular, a law of delegation that will give in the hands of the Government, on the basis of principles and guiding criteria on which I will very shortly be able to define a matter of fundamental importance as the reform of the labour market. We have already said how much we do not like this delegation. We have tried to intervene on an absolutely and profoundly wrong, exclusive and exclusive text and mode of operation. We have already said how much we do not like this for legislative measures that must be characterized for their object, especially for their disruptive impact on a country that is experiencing a moment of deep crisis. It is an almost ritual formula now, and it is terrible to remember it, because we do not want to do defeatism or "contrism," nor do we want to fall into some unwelcome ornithological category to the Government: but we cannot help saying that all economic indicators (with the economic indicators concerning general unemployment at 13.2%, and youth unemployment at 43.5%) tell us that we must be serious and inclusive, and not fast, random and excluding. This delegation, unfortunately, says very little. We have already pointed this out in the round, we have specified the reasons why we could not (despite we tried) vote on this delegation. An opaque delegation, a little significant delegation in the content: five very important delegation projects contained in a legislative provision that unfortunately do not appear because they do not want and because they cannot. This legislative delegation is in fact the result of a highly promotional activity of this Government, which gives for acquired and for fact measures still in itinerant. And we know this because, by now, we know the operating mode of President Renzi, who, starting from announcements, chirpings, press releases, public consultations, guidelines, decrees-exanguis, delegitimati, dishomogeneous and tendingly unconstitutional, arrives at legislative delegations so empty, white and poorly significant to be in the smell of unconstitutionality. Because what is weak at the source, at the base, like this delegated law, will produce fragile legislative decrees. And this applies only to the shape. As far as substance is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, we have repeatedly tried to draw attention to our willingness to cooperate. We have believed in that promotional aspect which, of course, is the highlight of this measure. We have heard President Renzi say several times that he wanted to do a liberal revolution on the labour market; we have heard him say that Article 18 and the reinstatement of it were nothing but an old iron; we have heard him say from London that he would turn unemployment numbers from one digit to two numbers to one digit to one number. We really believed that the young Renzi, who broke up a nomenclature, who broke through the doors of the Democratic Party and Palazzo Chigi on the basis and with the assumption of going beyond a certain communist and post-communist culture, would not suffer from the constraints of the Palace. That young Renzi, who had not yet set foot in the Palazzi, and who spoke of the liberal revolution of the labour market (and who built his primaries on this), evidently, with this measure, with the entry into the Palazzi, with the need to be compromised with his intransigent minority and with the minor majority, he eventually aged. Unfortunately, this has not helped either. Mr Minister, you know, because we talked about this in the round of negotiations, which we found quite regrettable that, of all the amendments included in the maxi amendment (another perversion of the institutional framework to be overseen by this House), the only part included was that of the amendments of the Democratic Party minority. And we found it equally regrettable that in the circle of return, in the passage to the House, the text was further worsened, in our view, through the inclusion only of the text of the agenda of the Democratic Party leadership. This is not the way to be inclusive! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] That is not the way to reform. This is not the way to give an economic shock to a country that needs to restart growth; to a country that needs to break through a wall. Minister, you said that you want a profound, true and radical reform of work for times of exceptional crisis. But do you really think, Minister, that this reform is so profound and so radical that it breaks the wall of apartheid between the guaranteed and the unattended, between the young and the less young, between public and private employment? But do you really believe that that horrible change, the genetic mutation of Article 18, which you have produced for your compromise to the maximum decrease, not only for this House and not only for this measure, but for the country, will break this wall of apartheid and of difference between people working on the labour market? Do you really believe that? Creating the new category of the most and the least guaranteed? From 1 January 2015 we will have a new category of less guaranteed, which will create not only deep limits to labour market mobility, but also immense problems in terms of coverage, and we do not say so, Minister, economists who have already revoked the validity of this measure before it even crosses the threshold of these parliamentary classrooms. Minister, the problem with this measure is that it doesn't have a polar star. It arises from a series of compromises drawn up day by day, which do not have a single definition, a project or a reference programme, nor do they have in mind their target audiences. This is a reform against work, against business, against the labour market, and therefore against our country. We are absolutely opposed to the restriction of flexibility, we are opposed to the fact that the Government, any government pro tempore, takes on commitments and then disregards them retroactively. We are opposed to limiting those contractual circumstances which have, in force, allowed our governments to increase jobs, created jobs, fueling flexibility and giving breath to the labour market. We are also opposed to lying, Minister. We do not believe that we can create the social shock absorbers that I have heard of in this House as a fact. How can we finance permanent contracts for increasing, decontributed and detaxed protections, at the same time as universal protections and social shock absorbers with EUR 2.2 billion? As Luca Ricolfi rightly said, are we sure that President Renzi reads the economic documents of his Government, reads the Update Note to the Document of Economics and Finance and the law of stability? We're not sure. We are certain only of one thing: that this is a useless measure and, like all useless things in exceptional times and in crisis, absolutely harmful. That is why we are going to vote strongly against this measure. [[Live applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u145	Parent (PD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we think that no other reform will affect the life of a country like that of work: it affects the lives of people seeking work, those who lose it, those who want to improve their working conditions; it affects the lives of businesses, their ability to stand in a very competitive world of work and their opportunities to grow; it also affects the public policies of a country system, starting with the school system. We think of the highly innovative scope of a different concept of social shock absorbers, the reduction of contractual typologies at a time of great precariousness, the creation of an efficient system of support for employment and of making the rules of work simple. I like to use the expression "make simple" more than to talk about simplification. Moreover, delegation of work is not an isolated intervention, it is the result of an overall design, an overall vision that puts the work at the centre. What else would be the intervention on the IRPEF, the reduction of taxes on labour, the 80 euros and the intervention on the IRPP? It is a precise political choice of the Government, in such a difficult world, to reduce labour taxes even under given economic conditions. And what is it, if not an overall view, to support the delegation of work with stability, with tax relief to those who hire indefinitely and with economic resources. I fully agree with those who have said that resources are and will be essential for this to be a true reform. An overall vision is also witnessed by the battle our Premier is taking in Europe to have resources for an investment policy, because the crisis we are experiencing is European. Battle that is being waged to carry out growth policies, as the Minister recalled, because only with growth is the employment base enlarged and more people enter the world of work, especially young people. An overall vision that is contained also in interventions of the Government, such as support to Made in Italy or as a norm, on which perhaps none of us has paid so much attention, contained in the unblocking Italy, on the substitution function of the Government in case the Municipalities and the Regions do not spend resources. Not spending public money is a scandal. We are scandalized by the corruption of politicians and it is right that this is so, but equally scandalous is that in Italy we do not spend European money. Minister and ladies and gentlemen, Italy needs virtue, and it is certainly a virtue to be able to spend European resources in such a strong moment of economic and employment crisis. We must have politicians for the common good, executive officials of the public administration who do not keep in the drawers permissions and practices. Italy needs virtue to renew the whole system. I am thinking of the need for us to digitise the entire Italian production system: this is why we need a programming effort and the ability of workers and workers to prepare themselves. It is essential to take care of human capital, because the real protection that we can have for our workers is to equip them with competences. The delegation lays a foundation on this. That will be the greatest protection. The world of work (I do not quote other figures because we all remember them, and here we do not have to give figures, but answers) has lost more than 2 million young people since 2008. This is why the deep-seated ratio of delegation is to create a favourable ground for access to work for new recruits, especially for an indefinite period, and the commitment not to leave anyone alone throughout working life. Moreover, having different rules for new recruitment, without affecting the rules for those already working, is in full compliance with Article 3 of the Constitution. Yesterday we voted on the constitutional prejudices which have no basis on this issue, because the rules we are approving to achieve substantial equality of working conditions are fully respectful of the constitutional dictation. This is all the more necessary in a world where inequalities are increasing. There are already inequalities: between generations, between territories, between the included and excluded from work. I'm already there! As you do not see, not to feel that there are already boys or girls with fake VAT numbers who have no rights, there are already those who wander from one term contract to another without having income support! [[Applause from the PD Group]] There are already inequalities. In order to intervene on these inequalities we must think about building a new season of rights, in order to ensure equal opportunities in a totally changed world context. Politics, the government, the social partners must assume the great responsibility of a renewed relationship between the government and the social partners in order to keep together a society deeply changed and represent the differences between workers and workers and also to promote a dialogue with the square that is protesting in these hours. Nine months have passed since the draft delegation law under consideration entered Parliament, and nine months is the time it takes to give birth to a life. Contrary to what Senator Bencini and Senator Catalfo said, I think there has been a virtuous dialogue between Parliament and the Government. The Senate has improved the text, the House of Deputies has done the same, as the Minister has said, and as some opposition members in this House have admitted in part. This is not a small thing to restore a fruitful relationship between the Commission and us parliamentarians. 18:43 p.m. (Followed by the speaker). Since it is a delegated law, Minister, now the floor is passed to you, to the Government, which will have to issue implementing decrees, but we Members of Parliament will be watching, in addition to the fact that we will have to give mandatory opinions in the Commission on the effective implementation of the delegation. Even in this case time becomes a value. We must be ready for the beginning of the year, because the country is waiting and we must give answers. It is for all these reasons that the Democratic Party Group will vote for the government's confidence. [[Live applause from the PD Group and the Senators Berger and Romano. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u147	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u148	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I will not vote for confidence in the delegation law because I believe that the government is seriously abusing this institution. Already in October, he asked for confidence in the delegation law here in the Senate, when it was possible to continue an absolutely fruitful discussion, and he asked for it arguing that the text could not be modified. Then, however, he changed that text to the House, and today he returns to the Senate and asks for confidence again. Then there would be a question of whether this House was dissolved without its knowledge. I will not vote for confidence even on a matter of merit, because this law delegates a lot to the government, but the Premier's statements, the continuous attacks on the union and the statements that employees are the end users of an apartheid privilege do not give hope for anything good when it comes to transforming the law with the implementing decrees. Frankly, I feel obliged to apologise to all the Senators of the Democratic Party - indeed - if this time I cannot make prevail the common reasons and feeling of solidarity that has united us in these very difficult 21 months. However, I feel the duty, in a complex situation like this, with the moral question that explodes in Rome, with the Parliament armored this morning by the police carts, because there was a demonstration of protest, of following my conscience, which has a certain idea of the left and the truth. That is why I shall vote no. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u149	We shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u150	I refer to the vote on bill No 1428-B, which consists of only Article 1, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, for serious reasons, Senators Di Giorgi, Nencini, Repetti and Saggese. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Girotto is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Girotto. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Augello, Azzolini Battista, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbio, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fatiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Favero, Ferrara El Filippino, Filippino, Di Giorgi, D'Onghio Esposito Giuseppo, Fasiolo I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of bill No 1428-B, composed of only Article 1, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government put the question of trust: [[Senators present 280 Senators voting 279 Majority 140 Favorable 166 Contrari 112 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u151	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-364.ana.u152	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, December 4, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.42 p.m.
