ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u6	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to the attention of the House a fact which happened this morning at the end of the work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Ciampollo, what do you ask for the floor for? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). To tell them what happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u7	You have no power to intervene. There is an agenda that we must follow. However, he asked the Presidency to be able to intervene and, if necessary, he would speak at the end of the sitting. There is no intervention at the beginning of the sitting; what has happened will tell us later.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u8	As we must proceed to a vote, pending the twenty-minute deadline, I have, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the reverse of the agenda, anticipating the debate on Doc. IV-b, No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings (No 10612/11 RG PM - 6177/12 RG GIP) pending at the Court of Bari against Mr Alberto Tedesco, Senator at the time of the facts, for the offence referred to in Articles 110, 595 third paragraph, of the Criminal Code and 13 of the Law of 8 February 1948, No 47 (Defamation by the media) [[Brusio.]] Can we have some silence, please? The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided to consider that the extra-moenia statements made by Mr. German, Senator at the time of the events, fall within the scope of the application of the indefatigability referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Caliendo, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u10	Mr President, the written report contains all the passages that allow each senator to fully assess the matter. It arises from a request from the judge for preliminary investigations of the Bari court on 18 December 2012, for a criminal proceeding against Mr Alberto Tedesco, senator at the time of the facts, in order to ascertain whether the facts subject to the proceedings complement or not the hypothesis of expression of indispensable opinions within the meaning of Article 68 of the Constitution. After the legislature, reassigned the matter by the President of the Senate to the Council, it was re-discussed during the sessions of 26 June and 11 July 2013. The criminal proceedings in question essentially deal with an interview given on 9 August 2009 by Senator German to the daily newspaper "Senzacolonne". The German Senator sent a memory with which he refers to a broad polemic of political content that starts from 2007 and that had to do with the conflict of interest. In his memory, he stated that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Health Service, on 5 December 2007, pointed out to the General Command of the Guard of Finance the need to carry out investigations aimed at clarifying the matter of an alleged conflict of interest position of the Councilor in the health policies of the Puglia Region. The President of the Commission of Inquiry, precisely in those days, and in particular on 31 July 2009, highlighted the decision to extend the scope of the investigation, since the first in-depth investigations will concern, as was agreed, the Puglia Region. For the sake of complete information, it should be noted that the findings made on the acts of trade union inspection by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities have shown that Senator German signed, together with other senators, Resolution 6,00019 of 29 July 2009, covering various issues relating to the problems of the Mezzogiorno, including health. In particular, it should be pointed out that the German Senator, with the interview in question, specifically said: It seems to me that Giuseppe Caforio, esteemed Senator of Italy of the Values, has repeatedly supported battles for his category. And therefore for the defense of completely personal interests. And it's on the other side. I'm talking about Caforio, I'll talk to the magistrates. I'll go tell them everything I know. There is also more besides the conflict of interest. The written report contains the jurisprudence of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in the past legislatures and in particular in the 16th legislature. The Junta, in that sitting and in all the acts that have been brought before the House, has always argued that there was a need for an evolutionary interpretation. But the facts, as described above, can be fully read and configured as the hypothesis of Article 68, even taking into account - as is written in the report - the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, not only because of the relevance of the substance of the question, but also and essentially from the temporal point of view, given that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly recalled the temporal contemporaneity with respect to what has happened. Then, considering also this jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, it must be taken into account that the interview is of 9 August and that the date of the aforementioned sitting to which I referred is 31 July. For this reason, both from the point of view of the jurisprudence of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities (which is not necessary at this stage to address funditus for the purpose of a possible, subsequent evaluation of other measures), and from the point of view of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, the hypothesis of incontrovertibility arises.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u11	Since no one is asking to speak in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u14	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Junta had begun to examine the judge's request for preliminary investigations at the Bari Court with regard to the criminal proceedings against Mr Alberto Tedesco, Senator at the time of the events, already in the last parliamentary term, but without reaching its conclusion. The Junta then resumed its examination of the matter at its meeting on 26 June 2013, after Mr Alberto Tedesco had deposited a memoir, and defined his proposal for the Chamber, in the sense of indistinguishability. The criminal proceedings in question derive from a lawsuit by Senator Caforio for some statements by Senator German in an interview published on August 9, 2009 in the daily newspaper "Senzacolonne". The German Senator was therefore investigated for defamation by means of the press for some statements contained in the aforementioned interview. Without repeating these statements again, it is therefore necessary to ascertain whether the fact which is the subject of the criminal proceedings does or does not supplement the hypothesis of expression of indispensable opinions in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, since it relates to the exercise of the functions performed by a member of the Parliament, except that the defence of the German Senator also raised during the proceedings and for which the judge for the preliminary investigations of Bari has consequently ordered the sending of the acts to the Senate. With regard to the extra-moenia statements made by a Member of Parliament, as in the present case, it is necessary to assess the guidelines of both constitutional and parliamentary jurisprudence in order to make a proper assessment of the case. The jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court identifies parameters of close functional connection of the non-moenia declarations with the acts carried out in Parliament, although the Junta in many decisions called for an extension of the boundaries of the functional link for the recognition of the prerogative of inindacability. Even if we want to follow the most restrictive interpretation of the Constitutional Court, in this case it is necessary to verify whether for the extra-moenia statements of the German Senator there is a correspondence with opinions already expressed or with acts related to his parliamentary activity. In the above mentioned memoir, the senator acknowledged this functional link in non-generic but specific terms. The interview given by Mr. German dates back to 9 August 2009, that is a few days after the meeting of 31 July in which the President of the Commission of Inquiry on the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Health Service pointed out that the Bureau supplemented by the representatives of the Groups had decided to extend the subject of the investigation to all phenomena of corruption within the National Health Service, it being understood that the first in-depth investigations will concern, as had been agreed, the Puglia Region and specified that it will also acquire the documentation collected in this field during the past legislature. However, the acquisition of such documentation could not fail to refer also to the findings of the audit of the Finance Guard carried out against Mr. German. The parliamentary activity therefore concerned precisely Mr. German and had as its target precisely the work of this person as a health adviser. In conclusion, in the light of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court in this matter, it is considered that the extra-moenia statements made by Mr. German, Senator at the time of the facts, fall within the scope of the application of the unindicability referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution. In this sense it will be the expression of our vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u17	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, you must remember that, when I chaired the Council for Authorisations in Montecitorio, all the parliamentary groups signed a document, sent then to the Presidency of that branch of Parliament, which indicated a series of general criteria within which to frame the vexed question of how and when a Member - Member or Senator - can speak enjoying the unmistakableness of the opinions he expresses and when, on the other hand, they are statements which he must answer like any other citizen before the courts and judges. Given that parliamentary practice had gone further in the defence of Members, it was determined, first, that whenever a Member of Parliament outside Parliament's Chambers, or outside of what has been written in questions or questions, he refers to his personal affairs, business or work and that they have nothing to do with parliamentary activity, he, like any other citizen, can be brought to trial and answer for his statements. At the same time, however, it was established that it was indisputable when the subject on which we intervene is the same political and trade union matter that refers to the political activity of the parliamentarians, that is, the one for which we were elected and are here and for which, compared to the citizens, we have a prerogative of freedom of speech and opinion, being able to denounce, mayor and expose ourselves in the defense of some causes or even in dialectic with other colleagues. It becomes a bit surreal to go and determine whether this has been said by the Member in this House or whether it has been written in hundreds of questions or whether it has been said, rather, in a political forum, at Porta, in a meeting or in a congress, at a time when the subject at issue is a political one, is political polemic. This is all the more true if we take into account what the Constitutional Court itself has said, that we can nevertheless bring back and repeat the things that have already been said in Parliament. This is the case in the specific case, where the person spoke in an interview of issues that concerned his/her role as city council member, Parliament, controversy with other Members, the matter examined by a parliamentary committee of inquiry, therefore referring to a controversy that was all inside questions of parliamentary political dialectic, on which no citizen can intervene or be called to respond. In fact, citizens do not have institutionally as their objective, as a task and as a duty to be interested in speaking dialectically, even against strong powers, perhaps clashing with those who can so often have time, money or lawyers to put a Member in trouble. There is no need, in fact, for a Member to be right or wrong: if he is confronted with a strong power, it is enough that this power decides to pursue it with judicial action and a Member is already paralyzed only for the expenses he has to bear in order to defend himself. Then, the only defence that a Member has, when he makes politics, when he argues theses that concern his political activity and the contents of his battles, is precisely the unmistakableness of his opinions and expressions. It seems to me, also in the light of the report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities that we are discussing, that the case we are talking about here is in this case, so I am in favour of what the rapporteur and the Junta's conclusions say in the sense that the expressions used at the time by my German colleague are indispensable. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u20	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement supports the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the indisputability of the views expressed by Mr Alberto Tedesco, Senator at the time of the events.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u23	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, by accepting the content of the report submitted to the proceedings and speeches already carried out by Members and, of course, by supporting the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, will also vote in favour of the adoption of these reports.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u26	Barani (GAL). Mr President, of course, our Group also supports the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, partly because, if a Member is deprived of the possibility of intervening in the political debate and on matters of local interest, with political reflections, even national, if we do not have this possibility, democracy is at stake: it is a gag. When the legislator thought of Article 68 (which - alas! - in the 1990s it was changed in the negative sense), the then constituent Fathers had in mind that the powers were well distinct and that no power could prevail over the other, as the judiciary is doing lately on the legislative and the executive; and they had also predicted that parliamentarians of humble origin, at a time when there were no great mass media and today's technologies, who obviously had to intervene in the meetings to bring the message to the populations concerned, had the freedom to express their opinion. That was democracy, because we were out of a twenty-year period in which it had not been possible to do so and, indeed, the oppositions had been repressed. Therefore, the constituent has tried to set in motion all the balances in order to give the possibility to the parliamentarians, with Article 68, to express its assessments, especially on political issues, and to prevent the latter from being blackmailed by entrepreneurs or by characters of evil who, denouncing him, could obviously have forced him not to express his mandate. The constituent Fathers, among other things, did not want to lay down a bond of mandate precisely in order to let the parliamentarians be free to express themselves in the vote and - alas - they also admitted the secret vote in order to give even more freedom to the parliamentarians to be able to intervene according to his thought and his intentions. I wanted to make a contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u27	Before proceeding with our work, I greet the members of a delegation of the Interparliamentary Association of Friendship Italy-Brazil, who are in Rome for a conference hosted in the Senate, to whom we wish good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u30	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u31	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to declare that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, the views expressed by Mr Alberto Tedesco, Senator at the time of the events, are indisputable. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I note that the proposal has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u34	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to point out that Senator Molinari was going to pick up the card.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u35	We note Senator Molinari's vote in the report. I think Senator Molinari wanted to vote in favour. [[Senator Molinari makes a statement of assent.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u36	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 580. I would remind you that the debate on the amendments was concluded in the afternoon sitting and the final explanations of vote took place. We shall then proceed to the final vote which had been postponed to the afternoon. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: Provisions on priority criteria for the execution of procedures for the demolition of abusive artifacts, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be entitled to make further formal coordination changes if necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u37	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for a resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of civil proceedings (No 2539/09 RG) pending at the Ordinary Court of Cassino against Mr Giuseppe Ciarrapico, Senator at the time of the facts. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities unanimously proposes that the Assembly decide that the statements made by Mr Ciarrapico, Senator at the time of the events, do not constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore do not fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u38	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 June 2013, the Cassino Court sent the Senate a copy of the acts of civil proceedings instituted in 2009 against Mr Giuseppe Ciarrapico, senator at the time of the facts, in order to ascertain whether the facts of the civil proceedings were to supplement or not the hypothesis of the expression of opinions that could be indispensable under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, as opinions related to the exercise of the functions performed by a Member of Parliament. The President of the Senate referred this request to the Junta on 20 June 2013. It has become necessary to carry out investigative activities as it must be pointed out that, in the context of the aforementioned procedure, the then former senator and, today, again senator of the Republic, Ulysses Di Giacomo, has agreed in court the former senator Giuseppe Ciarrapico - indicated as co-responsible in his capacity as publisher of fact - promoting a compensation action for the damages resulting from the content of some articles published in the daily newspaper "Nuovo Molise Today." The investigative activity, therefore, was, in fact, concrete in the acquisition of these newspapers, which had not been annexed to the application. On September 5, the President of the Senate forwarded a copy of these articles and preceded the examination of the matter. The articles in question speak of the work of the then former senator Ulysses Di Giacomo both in the regional sphere, as a health adviser, and in the national context, as a member of the Senate itself. In the case of Di Giacomo, they used to use tones and terms that would be denigratory, accusing him of non-clear conducts and inability to play political roles. The Junta set a deadline for the presentation of any memoirs by Mr. Ciarrapico, who was also asked if he wanted to be auditioned. No request for a hearing was received from the Junta and no statements were made. It was clear from the examination of the articles in question that none of them had been signed by Senator Ciarrapico and in none of them there was an interview carried out by the former senator himself. It was also apparent from the request made by the Cassino court that the former senator had actually been sued as a de facto publisher of the newspaper mentioned above. The evidence suggests that, in the present case, the illegal facts attributed to Mr Ciarrapico cannot be attributed the value of opinions expressed, since the publishing activity in fact, by its nature, is a material behaviour and, as such, not attributable to the concept of expressed opinion, nor, much less, to a dissemination activity functional to the exercise of the parliamentary mandate. It must be specified also - and this has been the subject of the discussion - that Article 11 of the law 8 February 1948, n. 47, the law on the press, previews that: For crimes committed through the press, the owner of the publication and the publisher are civilly responsible, jointly and severally with the perpetrators of the crime and among themselves. That is precisely why Mr Ciarrapico was called into question as a publisher in fact. It must also be pointed out, with regard to the responsibility of the publisher, that this is recognized as objective responsibility, which, evidently, as such, is not ascribed either to guilt or to dole. The very foundation derives from the assumption of the risk of enterprise, which the legislator places at the expense of those who taking a profit from an activity to them in some way attributable - in this case as a publisher in fact - must also bear the relative risks. The objective nature of the publisher's responsibility renders, therefore, incompatible this case with the scope of application of the prerogative of inindacability, which requires instead, as we know and as has already been announced previously, regarding the matter we have just dealt with, an active behavior that, in the hypothesis in question, being objective responsibility, has not been found. It is therefore also unnecessary to verify the functional link with the exercise of parliamentary activity, which is in any case not identifiable in the present case, since the ontological assumption, i.e. the expression of opinions or the dissemination of opinions, is lacking. Only then could we have talked about functional evaluation of the activity. I would like to refer briefly - but I do not think it is appropriate to dwell on this in the report - to the constitutional jurisprudence to which the Junta has evidently adhered. The Council considered that the behaviour of Mr Ciarrapico, as a publisher in fact, is not even abstractly attributable to the expression of opinions. A final remark must be made about the obligation of the magistrate to whom the exception of insindicability has been raised, because it, if it does not intend to accept it, has an obligation to transmit the acts to the competent Chamber, so that the Junta takes care of them, and so has happened. In conclusion, therefore, from all the above, emerges the non-susistence of the indistinguishability of the total extraneousness of the illicit facts, cited in the request of the court of Cassino, with respect to the prerogative referred to in article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution. For these reasons, the Junta unanimously proposed to the Assembly that the statements made by Mr Ciarrapico, Senator at the time of the events, should not constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and should therefore not fall under the circumstances provided for in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u39	Since no one is asking to speak in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u42	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, in short, on the basis of the same reasoning I have just expressed, it seems to me that we are in the event that the qualification of the person who is called into question - not as a senator, but even as the owner of a newspaper - is totally unrelated to the activity of a senator. I therefore fully agree with the unanimous opinion of the election committee, namely that the statements made by Senator Ciarrapico do not constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u45	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour, sharing the analysis and conclusions adopted unanimously in Junta. There are no ontological requirements for the application of Article 68 of the Constitution, as Mr Ciarrapico was the publisher at the time of the events. We therefore do not fall within the scope of this article in any way and there is no need to assess any kind of inconvenience, as this is an objective responsibility. Our vote will therefore be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u48	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u49	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to decide that the statements made by Mr Ciarrapico, Senator at the time of the events, do not constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore do not fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u50	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 948, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft law of initiative of the deputies Burtone and others, Vendola and others, Francesco Sanna and others, Micillo and others, 200, 688, 887 and 957. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u51	Mr President, I would have wished to ask for permission to carry out the oral report, but, as it is a particularly sensitive matter, which may also concern the activities of policy-makers, I think it is necessary to read the written report. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal redefines the incriminating case of the political-mafia electoral exchange, governed by Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. The text before the House is the result of a wide-ranging and detailed debate in the Justice Committee, which has resulted in a partially different wording from the text adopted at first reading by the House of Deputies. The unified text adopted by the other branch of Parliament proposed a new wording of Article 416-b, based on the premise of the agreement between the two parties for obtaining votes. The course was defined as follows: "Anyone who consciously accepts the taking of vows". The acceptance had as its object the pursuit itself by recourse to intimidation, deriving from the Mafia associative bond, in accordance with the procedures provided for in the third paragraph of Article 416-a. In this way the crime was perfected at the time of the mutual and conscious commitment of two counterparts of the same political-mafia electoral change. In addition, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the first paragraph of the new Article 416-b was no longer limited to providing for the provision of money, but also identified other forms of utility as a further counterpart. This last amendment, as is apparent from the proceedings of the Chamber of Deputies, was intended to respond to an explicit request for codification from civil society, mobilized in favour of a more effective wording of Article 416-b. The intention was to punish the voluntary act of the corrupt politician who, in exchange for votes of mob origin, meets the needs and interests of the cosche, promoting the acquisition of large capital and strengthening its capacity to control the territory, in order to facilitate its infiltration or consolidation into the social fabric and institutions. It should be pointed out, however, that the concept of "other utility" is not alien to our system and has on several occasions been used by the legislator. He noted, for example, Article 96 of the single text of the laws governing the election of the Chamber of Deputies, referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic of 30 March 1957, No 361, which, in redefining the vote of exchange, makes express reference to an offer of money, values or any other utility. Similarly, Articles 317, 318 and 319 of the Criminal Code, in the new wording introduced by Law No 190 of 6 November 2012, laying down provisions for the prevention and repression of corruption, identify as the material object of crimes of concussion and corruption, in addition to money, as well as other utility. Moreover, the Supreme Court of Cassation, as last amended by the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, is also the supreme Court of Cassation. 46922 and 47405 of 2011, he clarified that the subject of the electoral exchange, according to the current letter of Article 416-b, is the provision of money understood not only as currency or banknote, but also every type of asset immediately quantifiable in economic terms. Other utilities are currently excluded from the preceptive content of the standard, which can only be mediated by monetization. Precisely in order to fill this gap in the incriminating scope of Article 416-b, the definition of the price of exchange in monetary terms alone is abandoned, and this in view of the extreme variety of synergistic performances in which the political-mafioso exchange can consist, which has sometimes prevented to date that the pactum sceleris between politician and mobster could be effectively opposed by the order. On the edittal front, the unified text approved by the Chamber of Deputies provided for the sentence of imprisonment from four to ten years, reducing the sanctioning response currently foreseen by reference to the first paragraph of Article 416-a. The intention was to allow for greater proportionality in the delivery of the sentence between the political-mafia exchange and the most serious crime belonging to criminal organisations. In addition, in the course of the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, a second paragraph was inserted into the new wording of Article 416-b which provided for an autonomous crime for the mobster seeking the votes. This determined the appreciable effect that both parties to the agreement were criminally liable. In essence, this second paragraph of Article 416-b approved by the Chamber of Deputies punished the typical conduct of the member of the Mafia association which lends itself to the electoral exchange for the sole purpose of obtaining a consideration represented by money or other utility. The wording of this second paragraph in the body of Article 416-b raised doubts during the examination at the Senate Justice Commission. It is well known that in this branch of Parliament the conditions for the continuation of the examination of the bill in the deliberating session, following a request, made by one fifth of the members of the Commission, for the draft laws aimed at amending Article 416-b to be put back to the Assembly. The wording provided by the Second Permanent Commission of the Senate is based on three qualifying elements which, without subverting the approach followed by the Chamber of Deputies, appear to improve the performance of the criminal case and to ensure its dissuasive and repressive effectiveness. The conduct shall be qualified with the acceptance of the promise to obtain votes in accordance with the procedures laid down in the third paragraph of Article 416-a. The object of the exchange is the provision or promise of money or any other utility or willingness to meet the interests or needs of the Mafia association. As we understand, the need is thus met not to limit the punitive capacity of the norm to the giving of quantities of money, but it is confirmed that the crime is consumed even when the object of the synallagma is a utility of any other kind. In addition to this, the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the association has also been included, as a counterpart to the political-mafia electoral exchange. This qualifying element of the text approved by the Commission appears to be an appreciable balance point. Finally, the Commission has decided to confirm the bilateral structure of the crime, establishing that at the same penalty also those who promise to obtain votes in the manner defined in the first paragraph. Compared to the wording proposed by the House of Deputies, it was decided to anticipate, again, the threshold of punishableness to the promise, not only incriminating the actual adoption of votes. As regards the sanctioning system, it was decided to approve the penalty to be imposed in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 416-a, i.e. imprisonment from seven to twelve years. [[Senator Palma's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u52	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u53	Mr President, I asked to speak on the subject of the political-mafia exchange vote precisely because during the work of the Justice Commission there was a somewhat overwhelming situation between the confirmation of the existing and existing text, which dates back to 1992, the approval of the text transmitted by the House of Members and the amendment of that text. There was a very wide-ranging, in-depth discussion, at some time even heated. It is certainly a very sensitive issue, with which we are unfortunately confronted during every election campaign because it refers to organised crime interventions in the political world. As Senators of the Democratic Party we had assessed the inadequacy of the standard approved and transmitted by the House of Deputies while still under discussion. From what had been observed, there was a risk that the norm, in the text arrived in the Senate, could represent a backwardness to the law in force. As I said, there is a very clear rule on political-mafia exchange voting, dating back to 1992, which has also led to difficulties in interpreting, in particular in identifying the crime and the cases to be punished. In some cases, in the application of this rule, there has even been talk of the need for a diabolical probatio for both investigative magistrates and judges. Unfortunately, this has been confirmed by the very limited number of investigations and trials pending and concluded in this area. It was therefore clear that it was necessary to act quickly and appropriately on the rules of the political-mafia exchange vote, because this is certainly what we are also asked of those who, in the territories, deal with the issue of interference between the political world and the criminal world. I mentioned earlier a kind of setback to the current law of the text that came to the Senate and was settled during the proceedings of the Senate Justice Commission. There were in fact some flaws, which we had identified and which we corrected. First of all, the profile, in some ways simpler and perhaps more banal, related to the provision of the sentence. For this type of crime, for the mobster or for the camorrist who behaved like this, there was even a lower penalty than that provided for in Article 416- bis of the Criminal Code. This is certainly a bad thing, because in our view, if there is interference between crime and politics, this behaviour is, if anything, an aggressive one and certainly not a minor one. Therefore, the penalty threshold should at least be brought back to the limit set for the Mafia-style association. The second negative aspect that we have pointed out is that relating to the exclusion or the lack of prediction of the behavior configured as a promise. When it comes to the promise of obtaining votes, it is absolutely not an unconsulted, absurd or done enlargement for the first time compared to who knows what areas of criminal punishment, because the institution of the promise, from the legal point of view, as such is already widely provided for by our law, not only in the penal code, but within the same discipline in electoral matters and therefore in specific matters. I would mention, for example, the punishable nature of the promise, including in specific matters, provided for in the rules on corruption. So there would be no - and there is no - upheaval in the proposed text of the criminal order, much less the general one, by providing for the punishableness of behaviour such as that of the promise. The third point I would like to mention, also because it will be put back to the House by means of a series of amendments, is that concerning the inclusion of the adverb in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. At first glance, especially if one does not consider the meaning of this adverb, from the legal point and of the penal code, anyone might think that the use of such an adverb could be good, because the person must be aware of what happens. I would also like to recall what Article 43 of the Criminal Code says. In this case it is an arson and therefore, by definition, institutionally, dogmatically, of a crime, of a crime, of a behavior, of a conduct according to the intention, which is therefore aware. It is therefore absolutely useless to foresee such an adverb. Also because, I add, or an adverb of this kind ('awarely') is useless, and then we do not understand why it is inserted, or, if there is any hidden intention, moreover not understandable in a linear way, it is that of wanting to create difficulties for interpreters, operators and those who carry out the fight against organized crime. At this point, in fact, one does not understand what utility an adverb of this type can have, if one wants to have this crime inserted in a particular case or subspecies of specific malice, to which eventually bring back a conscious behavior. This, however, I repeat, would certainly create interpretative and operational difficulties, so precisely in this regard the Commission has arrived at a text that has overcome this dilemma and that has therefore proposed a text that takes on what is the starting point and that is the basis punishable in 1992, with the addition of the promise, to meet the dogmatic and regulatory approach in this matter, with the adaptation of the sentence according to the indication of Article 416 bis of the penal code and with the addition of the words "of any other utility". These are the fundamental data and it is clear that these behaviours must be put in place, as is said in the proposed text, by means of the procedures referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a and thus by means of mafia-type methods. It is therefore not a normal and ordinary person, an ordinary contact, but a way of dealing with the characteristics of article 416- bis, i.e. the association of the mafia. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u54	Senator D'Ascola is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u55	Mr President, I would like to take stock of what was the debate, and I must say a great deal, within the Justice Commission. We discussed everything, starting with the fact that the crime referred to in Article 416-b in legal practice had been replaced by the external competition in Mafia association. It is, of course, good for Parliament to intervene, but the awareness of the members - at least some of them - of the Commission was to intervene on a matter in which case law solved the problem of a text, the one currently in force in Article 416-b, which had demonstrated its inconclusiveness. It must be said that there has also been discussion of the problem that I would say is more obvious, namely that of linking the punishable conduct to an early one, that is to say to the promise by the politician of this exchange or this agreement, punished even when the adoption of a vote has not really happened, but has only been promised. Here, in spite of the suffering of some Members of the Commission for what is a clear anticipation of criminal protection at a stage which may still be on the offensive side, it was considered to punish the promise as well, just to mean the importance that political competition must necessarily play as a time when no compromise must intervene, less a compromise even assumed by a promise of mutual benefits with criminal organisations. There is to be said for the benefit, or better to say in defence, of the current text that the promise to which we refer is not a generic promise, we could say a trivial promise, as in the text on which we were discussing it was expected. In other words, we are not proposing a rule for the House to punish the promise generically, but a rule that punishes a promise with concreteness and specificity, since it must concern the procurement of votes through the use of the modalities of action proper to the organizations of the mafia. Therefore, the promise must have the characteristics of seriousness, in order to use the language used in this regard by the Court of Cassation, obviously having to be enriched by the circumstance that the subjects who establish this agreement must agree that those votes will not only be required, but will also be required in ways typical of that intimidating action ordinarily carried out by criminal organizations, therefore through the use of the power of intimidation and a related state of subjection and omerty. This fact has made the perplexities that, on the contrary, surrounded the proposed text, which was limited to talking about a promise, moreover, with a very serious error, which replied to the current text of Article 416-b, in the part where the text proposed to the Commission referred to the promises referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a, which notoriously bears no reference to any promise, because this noun is known to be outside the text of Article 416-a in all its parts, but particularly in its third paragraph. The Senate would therefore risk discussing an issue that had led to criticism of the judiciary and the Court of Cassation, which, with reference to the text still in force, had obviously noticed a certain lack of legal culture of those who had written it, because they had recalled a historically absent element in the text of Article 416-a. It is to be observed - I say this for the second time - that the proposal for this text had replied to a historical error, according to jurisprudence, doctrine, but above all to the evidence of the text of 416-a, which this element of the promise certainly does not recall. There is a problem, on which Senator Casson intervened in his speech. In short, the Commission, but also the one who speaks to you, has raised an issue for the part concerning an amendment which I proposed in the course of the Commission's work, which the House of Members had also raised, and which was resolved by the insertion of the adverb which is aware of. What is the problem that we raised in the Commission? In short, the agreement determines this very serious crime on condition that the politician who promises the advantage to his interlocutor is aware of the subjective qualities of his interlocutor, because, if the speech is obviously made towards a subject whose qualities and subjective characteristics are ignored, obviously the crime would be completely non-sussistent. In short, an agreement made with a subject outside any criminal circuit can be assessed from the point of view of political ethics, but certainly not from the point of view of the penal code. I have to say that the solution proposed by the House of Deputies had not persuaded us, because the adverb 'consciously' did not explain the subject of awareness. It seemed essentially a sort of useless replica of the arsonous nature of the crime, which is set out in Article 42 of the penal code: the crimes are all arsonous, except those manslaughter, but they must be expressly predicted as such. The adverb "consciously" seemed essentially a useless repetition of the arsonous nature of a crime. But perhaps the problem could be solved, and that was the point of my amendment, by indicating an awareness of the subjective conditions or qualities of the interlocutor of the politician. This is because, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to know - I have also written it - that in the anti-mafia code, therefore in the most important crime control document, there is a paragraph 8 in Article 76 which punishes political propaganda whenever it is required of a subject subject subject subject to a preventive measure. So this is an extremely similar matter to the one we are dealing with. It seemed to me, so much so that my amendment proposal that could introduce awareness of the conditions or qualities of the interlocutor of the politician was based precisely on paragraph 8 of Article 76, that the two norms should be aligned, that should be symmetrical: if to respond to prohibited political propaganda I must be perfectly aware of talking with a subject subject subject subject to a prevention measure, it seemed that similarly it should be provided with reference to Article 416-b. There are amendments, in particular one proposed by Senator Albertini, which are in this direction, and will be discussed in the course of the debate. There was then as the subject of discussion the problem of penalties. Even as a result of an amendment of mine, it was said to make a choice. If we consider the conduct referred to in Article 416-b to be so serious that we even deserve a greater penalty than that provided for the participant in 416-a, then we must have the consistency - then perhaps we will attract criticism from all over the world - of providing for a higher penalty. But if we do not make this choice of legislative policy, the following question arises: can we punish with the same penalty those who for once have committed a certainly serious fact of agreement instead to the participant, who daily participates in the criminal activity for every day, I do not say of his life, but of a wide interval of time, contributing to the strengthening and improvement of the operational capacities of the association? I shall end my speech with an indication. The text that had been proposed to us contained a reference by virtue of which it was answered in accordance with Article 416-b even if the person qualified as a politician had committed himself and made himself available not only to solve and in any case to contribute to the solution of the problems of the association, but if this availability had manifested it also with reference to the needs of the associates. We have firmly opposed this solution within the Commission, so it is true that the reasons for the final accession to the text are also based on this choice. So this expression is missing. This would be a very serious mistake, if it were ever thought that it could be punished even in the case of willingness to satisfy not the interests of the association but those of the associates. The jurisprudence has always clarified that one can respond to such crimes if one contributes to the interests of the association considered as a whole, because this is the moment when it determines an advantage for the association, that is, the one in which the promise benefits the total criminal interests, economic, of intrusion into the political life, in the contracts, in the affairs of the association, being able to be the interest, the requirement of the associate, considered individually, a fact completely devoid of connection with the prestige, the increase of power of the association. It could be trivial. The need for an associate is also a family requirement, personal, devoid of any connection with the only plan of disvalue which can seriously - I emphasize, seriously - reason, that is, the increase of the intimidating power, of the realization power of the crimes by the association. In short, you can take ten years of imprisonment - here we are not talking about banal penalties, but extremely high penalties - if this conduct has created at least the danger, because we must not forget that we punish even just the promise, of an increase in the operation of the association. If we bring within the crime the satisfaction of individual interests of the associates, as such disconnected from the increase of the operativity and the ability to aggression to fundamental legal goods on the part of the association, we punish a serious fact together with a trivial fact even with the same penalty, with a constitutionally spoiled procedure on the side of that necessary necessity of proportion, which implies that facts punished with the same penalty define at least the same gravity. For these reasons, I felt it necessary to touch on a number of issues, probably anticipating - but I have read the text and I know the contents of it - what will be the debate on the amendments, especially the most significant ones, on the sidelines I have mentioned. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senators Albertini and Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u57	Mr President, it is with regret that, at a time like this, I am speaking in this House frankly too distracted with regard to the importance of the subject we are dealing with, because this is the fundamental theme of this country's life, with which we have been confronting for over 150 years now. It's not yesterday's problem. It is the problem of our democracy. It is the problem of the relationship between the mafia and politics. It is now established, proven and well-known that the characteristic of the Mafia associations, of all the Mafia associations, to be such, is the constant and continuous support of politics, without which they would not have survived for over a century and a half to changes of regime and forms of government, passing through the monarchy and republic. They'd be extinct on a judicial basis, like regular criminal gangs. But this has not happened, ladies and gentlemen, and it has not happened because the Mafia has enjoyed political support in this House over the course of a hundred and fifty years. Today, with this rule, we try to cut off this unholy relationship once and for all. It is not by chance to have tied the penalty of the politician who makes himself available to the mob's thighs to that of the associates, because the degree of danger of the behavior of the political man is equal, if not greater, to that of the simple associates of a mob's cosca. The Mafia would not survive our justice for a year without the support of politics. We must remember that. There is no one-off support for the Mafia in the history of Italian politics. The mob won't allow it. It is for this reason that the 5 Star Movement considered the formulation that came from the Chamber inadequate, because it did not contain the fundamental element that we requested loudly, that is, to strike those who make themselves available, and those who make themselves available reduced our country to what we see today. What was originally a problem of the southern regions then became a national problem. And then, at a time like this, when very dangerous mobsters say very serious threats to the servants of the State, I expect from you, colleagues, an attention, even just out of respect and to honor those who have given their lives for this country and those who every day put it at risk out there, facing these problems and dangers, to allow us all to live more serenely. Today we are called upon to respond to all this and we can do so with the new wording of Article 416-b. Colleagues, the debate in the Justice Commission was broad, because it was incredible that the thought of being punished in a less serious way, with a reduction of the penalty compared to the original wording, those who agreed with the mobster and even the mobster himself. It was a very bad signal, that certainly outside the parliamentary classrooms was caught and that we managed to reverse. Colleagues, we are therefore preparing to vote today on a rule that many - even so many heroes who are no longer there - have been waiting and wanted for a long time: a rule that will put the judiciary and police forces in condition to prosecute those who have allowed decades of impunity, selling out everything that could be done to the mafia, including the health of citizens, as we have recently discovered with the land of fires. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They sold out everything they could: not only procurement and construction, even health! For this reason the 5 Star Movement is here today and will vote compactly in favour of the measure under consideration, aware of the importance of the moment and the gravity of the facts that are being pursued with the prediction of this crime. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u58	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u59	Mr President, more than thirty years have passed since that maxi-process to the Mafia which brought out the organizational characteristics, affiliation, hierarchy, the aims and methods used by the Mafia to achieve its aims. However, even more than twenty years have passed since the introduction in 1992 that the case referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code is waiting to be completed in order to fully prosecute the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange: an exchange with which the criminal organization accesses the heart of democracy, infiltrates into the elected institutions, both local and national, in order to condition governmental decisions and allocation of resources and take advantage of it for the entire Mafia organization. The constraint in the wording of Article 416-b, which limited to money the advantage required in exchange for the electoral consent, had been denounced by the judiciary and associations and by those who worked in the anti-mafia. Extend criminality also to the political-mafia exchange, when the advantage concerns other utilities, or any other undue advantage in favour of the Mafia association, was necessary. The Justice Commission therefore considered it appropriate to amend the rule in this direction, also going to revise the proposal received from the Chamber of Deputies, which risked introducing further constraints in the practical application and punishableness of the criminal case for the terms used in defining the crime case. In particular, the terminology used - to consciously accept the taking of votes - allowed to assume an agreement and a result, of the votes received, difficult to prove in concrete terms and introduced, wanting to use the same terms as Senator Casson, a surplus of dolo that the judge should assess. Doubts, moreover, have highlighted the proposal to reduce the penalty compared to the first paragraph of Article 416-a, which we have proposed from 7 to 12 years. And although the term promised is specific to the offences of abstract danger, so it is the legislator who assigns responsibility by reversing the burden of proof on the accused, it is recalled that the term promised is found in many other cases of the penal code, such as, for example, Article 318, the second paragraph of Article 600, the first paragraph of Article 601. There is therefore no political will, ladies and gentlemen, to withdraw from the fight against organised mafia crime, on the contrary, a will to strengthen the regulatory instruments for incriminating those behaviors that affect the expression of sovereignty, free and aware of the vote, in the choice of their own political representatives. Political-mafia electoral exchange which undermines from within the institutional, government, and undermines social cohesion and equity. Democracy is corrupted in its birth, delegitimized, subordinate, and allows a functional interdependence between Government and crime for the allocation of public resources and other utilities that distort the normal rules of competition, produce economic damage, lack of investment, conditioning that effectively hinder the economic and social development of the country, triggering a vicious, dangerous circle of social hardship, corruption and corruption. In the vortex of inequality, the lack of trust in the institutions is insinuated; democracy is delegitized. We are convinced that the effectiveness of this regulatory action will have to be accompanied and strengthened by the revisiting of the crime of fraud in the budget, money laundering and self-laundering. But it is politics, even before legal innovation, that has to be the main actor in the fight against the mafia from within. In 1993, twenty years ago, the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission approved a report on mafia and politics which, highlighting a correlation between criminal responsibility and political responsibility, urged parties to self-regulation. The second Republic was born, but since then the number of municipal councils dissolved for mafia has increased. In December 2012 there were 211, in the South but also in the North. In a context of global relations, and an increasingly liquid society, there has been a profound change in the allocation of power, in a financial capitalism that makes it increasingly difficult to distinguish legal and illegal capital. Territorial lordships seem to still have a fundamental role to play between transnational trade, local business and political power such as that at national level. That the mafia is a local phenomenon does not mean that it is marginal, nor an emergency to be fought only in times of resurgence, violence (the mafia that shoots), nor simply an anti-state force, a counterpower. The Mafia needs a plurality of convergent factors: the use of violence, intimidating force, omerta and social consensus. The end remains the accumulation of wealth and control of the places of decision. Today, more and more often, infiltration takes, however, legitimate paths for illegal purposes, and is therefore less recognizable. Mafia that involves the different groups, from the most disadvantaged social strata, to the economic and entrepreneurship ones, the professionals, the elected in the institutions. Therefore, the fight against the Mafia is the ethical reconstruction of politics and the mature and conscious exercise of democracy, because the availability of the context, and of the institutional political system, is the prerequisite for the Mafia to produce politics and vice versa. I agree with those who say that it is not in the void that leaves the state that develops the phenomenon, but it is in the state. Just as it is not in the absence of a market, but it is in the market, that the mafia insinuates itself and produces profit. "Malandrineria" is defined in the first documents of a Sicilian prefect in the days of Garibaldi and of the Unity of the Kingdom. From there the Mafia legalizes itself to the local political power and through this to the national one, in a relationship of exchange and interaction. A cohabitation, therefore, between State and Mafia, between criminal and political responsibility, relations infiltrated between two parallel sovereignty. In conclusion, while waiting for the parties to adopt ethical codes, the obligation to discipline political-mafioso exchange, corruption, preserving the ethical moral integrity of a political body from presences and infiltrations that not only threaten the integrity of the institutions and their regular functioning, but threaten democracy, even before legality. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u60	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u61	Mr President, my speech, after Mr Giarrusso's comprehensive presentation, will merely remind the House and those who listen to us of the role - which we like to claim - that the 5 Star Movement had in the Commission justice when, by examining in the deliberating session the draft law coming from the House, with all the criticalities that have been said, it was the subject of proposals for revision, in times not suspect, only by myself and by the Commissioners of the 2nd Commission belonging to the 5 Star Movement. I am referring in particular to the awareness of the need to amend that text which came from the House. At that time it was October, if I remember correctly, set the deadline for tabling amendments, the 5 Star Movement presented them in good time. We are sorry for this small statement - which may seem a little presumptuous - but we like to emphasize and make known, to those who in the newspapers will never read it, the modestly decisive role that the 5 Star Movement has played in the formulation, which is today shared with all political forces, of the text before the House today. So, then, the 5 Star Movement proposed amendments that to a large extent have become part of the text that we are called to vote today, containing, above all, that passage, which for us was decisive and which is better than the text received from the House, because we were not limited to adding the other usefulness, in addition to the money, as a subjective element of the case, but the political candidate's willingness to the mafia associations or their emissaries or procacciator of votes. Let us remember that the deliberating seat was revoked following a request, legitimate from the regulatory point of view, of five colleagues of the Commission of Justice belonging to other groups. We all complain that the path to the timeliness of this rule has inevitably slowed down, but today, finally, it is an important day. We are in fact about to dismiss this measure, albeit with delay compared to the possibilities we have had in recent months, but above all looking back over the years. I recall that the current regulation of 416-b found a very poor application, almost nothing, precisely because formulated in such a way as not to leave the possibility at the probative level of being able to affect in that fundamental passage, in the strong link of the chain of evil, which sees the joining of the interests and the evil power of the associations of the mafia type with part of politics. With this call and this sense of satisfaction, we like to recall thousands of citizens and associations who have been interested in this issue (I remember the initiative of the white bracelet and the hundred days). Many of us, as well as other parliamentarians of other political forces, wear or have worn the white bracelet that committed us, when we were candidates, to carrying out the reform of this article in the first hundred days of the legislature. More than a hundred days have passed; better late than never and, above all, we have done it better than the text from the House. Up the hearts and down the mob. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u62	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u63	Mr President, the fight against corruption, exchange voting, forgery in the budget and money laundering have become the priority for a country undermined by the emergence of illegal conduct that undermines not only the foundations of civil life, but also the trust of international markets. We want to attract investment from abroad, but under these conditions we are unfortunately not credible. Hence the absolute need to intervene, but we must do so in a fair way, starting from this very House, which some people wish to eliminate, not understanding the important function of control. In the electoral rounds no form of appeal must be allowed if we are to maintain the expression of the vote as a free democratic and responsible choice of the citizen called to the polls. The vote should never be urged, as a result of a synthesis of the will and awareness of the person. Article 416-b of the penal code, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen, could not be adopted by this House with a text which provided for the awareness of the person who accepts the adoption of votes in mafia, violent and anetic ways: it would have been impossible for a prosecutor to prove in court the awareness of the politician in bad faith. For doctrine and jurisprudence, the prescription in analysis falls within the category of multi-offense crimes because, in the whole of the interest of public order, it is committed to oversee not only the principle of legality, democracy and representativeness of political institutions, but also to counter the mafia phenomenon, which is always seeking consensus from the ruling classes, aiming, in fact, at the foundations of our constitutional order. Of course, my appeal to this House is to vote on the text that has removed the specification on the awareness of the person who accepts the exchange, which in the investigations and subsequent criminal proceedings would be very difficult to prove; this would make the offence of electoral exchange between politician and mobster a ghost crime. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Albano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was easy for me, even before listening to the comments of my colleagues on the left already in the Commission, to foresee the content and content of the amendments that would be proposed to the draft law. I recall that this measure came to the Commission in the deliberating session, as it had been unanimously approved by the Chamber of Deputies; therefore, the Senate Presidency appropriately assigned it to the deliberating session. Then something happened, after the deadline for tabling amendments had already expired, which led the colleagues on the left to request the reopening of the deadline. Evidently, then, it passed from the deliberating seat to the referring seat because those reasons that had led the Senate Presidency to assign this measure to the deliberating examination were no longer there, as the text, unanimously approved by the House, was somehow changed. As a matter of fact, I would have been able to know from July on the content of the amendments that would have been tabled, and certainly not by virtue of the gifts of vision, but because they had been designed and practically dictated outside this House by non-parliamentary subjects. I am referring, in particular, to the public, peremptory and widely emphasized by the mass media taken positions of a magistrate in service and, shortly after, of the writer Roberto Saviano, who, as he did for most of his works, immediately inspired himself - transforming them, for the truth, into well-paid elzeviri - to his judicial sources. On several occasions, in fact, both have formulated strong censures to the text of the draft law, as approved unanimously by the House and returned to us, as I said, in a deliberating session. Unfortunately, however, we are well aware that this, precisely because of those vetoes deliberated outside the places where the legislative function is exercised institutionally, will not happen. In particular, colleagues, the strays of the magistrate and the writer focused on the expression "procacciamento" and the adverb "awarely." The first was judged to be too restrictive compared to the previous expression, which resulted in obtaining a promise of vows, since it would require proof, deemed diabolical, of the actual diversion of the vow. The exegesis proposed by the illustrious critics, in my opinion, appears however at least hasty, also and above all on the lexical plane, expected that the expression "procacciare", according to the authoritative vocabulary Treccani, is the compound transitive verb, result of the integration between the procurement and the hunting, that is, to procure hunting. The Treccani, in fact, also cites some examples, of which I quote someone: to seek or find a way to provide something for himself or others, such as to bring bread to the family; to seek their own damage; to obtain something very pleasant, or unpleasant (there is also a nice example of Boccaccio, which for the austerity of this House I will avoid quoting). It is clear, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that, contrary to what has already been suggested by the television glossers, the word "procacciare" is certainly suitable to understand in the conduct indicted the search for the vote, regardless of their actual result; indeed, in my opinion, it could in fact be suitable to affect also conducts that, although they are aimed at seeking votes, have not translated into actual promise, thus proving to be wider than the one currently in force. Another criticality has been recognized, always by the same television glossators, in the emphasis of the necessity that the acting subject is aware of the fact that the procurement of votes takes place with mafia methods or using the force of intimidation of the associative bond and the condition of subjection and of omertà that derives from it. In fact, this clarification - which may seem superfluous in terms of the necessary psychological element of the crime, which obviously remains punished, as a result of malice, and therefore necessarily presupposes the conscience and the will of all the constituent elements of the crime - is however timely, since it focuses attention on the peculiar element and characterizing the criminal case referred to in Article 416-b of the penal code, which is precisely the mafia collusion. It must be considered, in fact, that the so-called electoral corruption, that is, the sale of votes, is already foreseen and punished as a crime by Article 96 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361 of 1957 and sanctioned with the imprisonment from one to four years and with the fine from euro 309 to euro 2.065. It is clear, therefore, that the much greater rigour of the rule we are dealing with today is determined and justified precisely by the fact that, unlike what happens in ordinary electoral corruption, the agent does not hesitate, in order to achieve the diversion of the formation of political consensus, to avail himself of the violent and threatening methods typical of organized crime. This additional connotation represents a quid pluris in terms of disvalue and must, therefore, be typical in the construction of the case that must necessarily fall within the cognitive and volitional sphere of the subject agent. The solution adopted by the House of Deputies was undoubtedly the most appropriate and useful in this respect. But the gentlemen who have made the criticisms that I have just mentioned - I have only mentioned one, Saviano, and I have omitted the name of the other, who is a well-known magistrate of our country, for my sensitivity as a lawyer that I have towards the order of the Italian judiciary - have prevented this Parliament from adopting a rule as it had been imagined, conceived and reflected by the Chamber of Deputies. They wanted changes, in my opinion unnecessary, which, moreover, go to place the case in such an ambiguous position for which, today, any interpreter of the norm could identify the hypothesis of crime and possibly condemn a politician for a case that has little or almost nothing of crime. I have tabled a number of amendments on which I would also like to address my colleagues on the left, for my typical culture of the lawyer who is always confronted with the other side. I would like to discuss this with them, because they go in some way to reposition the criminal case in a field of clear and concrete typing that can place, on the one hand, the magistrate in the condition that he does not have to channel himself into the most varied interpretations and, on the other hand, the citizen who carries out actions that can go in that direction to know exactly what is the criminal case for which he could possibly be suspected, judged and therefore condemned. There are also amendments by the President of the Palma Commission that go in the same direction. Give a signal, fellow Senators of the Democratic Party, that you care so much about this measure (but, I must say, as much as we do), given the same signal of readiness that you have just shown in approving the other measure. I, the author of today's rule, have stated from the outset that I am prepared to understand the reasons of the other political party and possibly to find some kind of mediation that could be of satisfaction for all the interests of the individual political parties. Under these conditions, and only to them, if there is a serious comparison and attention to the amendments proposed by me, especially by President Palma, I can now anticipate my agreement and my vote in favour of this measure. Otherwise, there will be a total refusal of me to see approved a standard that is vague, generic and not typical. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak in the debate on the draft law amending Article 416-b because, when I decided to participate in the elections in order to become part of this branch of Parliament, the first act I joined was the campaign "Restarting the future," better known as the campaign of white bracelets, to which 380 Members and more than 260,000 citizens joined. It was my first act and still today I carry the white bracelet on my wrist, because I consider it a priority to punish the mix between politics and mafia, because I believe that this is the worst evil that afflicts Italy or, better, that it is the mother of all the evils of our beloved Italy. With the rewording of this device we want to hit the genesis of the understanding between politics and the criminal organization, even of mafia type. The aim was to identify and strike at the terrible course in which politicians and mobsters meet, recognize each other and express their willingness to exchange favors. The conduct of the former, the politician (at this point corrupt) translates into having the possibility, better, the security to arrive in Parliament by activating the intimidating force of the criminal association to rake up the votes not in exchange for a correspondent and instant supply of money, but favors and advantages, direct or indirect, that will be achieved with interference in public acts to obtain a contract or the facilitation to build buildings where they should not arise, or to give a public office to an organic person of the same criminal association. Already Giovanni Falcone had a very clear idea of these modalities. He knew well that the usefulness gained by the Mafia in its relationship with the corrupt politician translates into hijacked contracts, abuses of building permits, undeclared and protected jobs, concessions that systematically interfere with public administrative activity, which, by virtue of the mafia political exchange, is oriented to satisfy the interests of the few: friends of friends, rather than the pursuit of the general and public interest. All of this has such evident negative effects that are manifested at the environmental level. It is the case of the hydrogeological failure with the wear of the ground, landslides, landslides and floods due to the abandonment of the territory and the lack of care of the slopes; of the wild cementification without rules, with houses not built according to anti-seismic norms and with poor materials so as to crumble at the first seismic shock; of the state infrastructures placed on slopes so unstable to break at the passage of the trains; of the entire Countries developed in riverbeds that with the abundant rains they see running in their streets cubic meters of water causing losses of human lives, as is happening in these days in my Liguria. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the mafias in our country represent more deeply the unresolved relationship between citizens and the state. They represent the legacy not won, not cleared, neither culturally, nor organisationally, of a way of understanding public, premodern, undemocratic power. That atavistic, violent, brutal and simple way of understanding the power for which the strongest command (...). That way of armies, gangs, clans, tribes and clientele that has nothing to do with the general interest, the requirement of universal rights, the equality of people before the law. That way of understanding the power that only has to do with two engines: greed and organized violence. In this country where there are dozens of municipalities loosed by mafia infiltration, in the north - I am a direct witness - as in the south, in which honest and courageous administrators like the Mayor of Monasterace - Maria Carmela Lanzetta - are forced to throw the sponge, in which economic development and work for young people are kidnapped and drowned by the arrogance of the consorteries, in which the testimony of those who denounce is still a heresy and not a civic normality. These are the words that Mr Davide Mattiello gave to the House of Deputies when voting on this same measure. I wanted to bring them back to this branch of Parliament because I found them so truthful and so deeply reflect my thinking that I did not want to change a single comma. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my memory goes to that September 1982 in which the prefect and general of the Arm of the Carabinieri Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa, on 23 May 1992, the so-called massacre of Capaci, in which the magistrate Giovanni Falcone was murdered with his wife Francesca Morvillo and some escort men, on 19 July 1992 where the magistrate Paolo Borsellino was killed with some men of his escort in the massacre of Via d'Amelio. People who have given everything to the State, including their lives and, finally, today we have the opportunity to thank them in putting all their work to use by approving this device; the crime of external competition in Mafia association will finally find a firm regulatory reference and not only the pure and precious legal elaboration. We have been waiting for it for too long and it has cost too many good people their lives: it is a strong signal that we owe to ourselves and to all Italians. So we are voting in favour of this rewording of Article 416-b. Come on! [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u67	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I think today is a very important day. We all know that the fight against the mob is a top priority for our country. We all know that the Mafia finds its strength in the dark, deep, often unconfessible relations with politics: with a certain policy. Action in the mafia-political relationship is therefore absolutely necessary, and the measure we are debating today is precisely in this direction. I am therefore very pleased to welcome the text adopted by a large majority in the Commission. Of course, some questions remain on the table. The 5 Star Movement has called for this measure to be discussed on countless occasions - practically since the establishment of the Justice Commission. President Palma, whom I do not see in the Chamber at the moment, acknowledges this. How many times have we called for this measure? 20 times? Thirty times? We are discussing this today in this House and it has been a year since the beginning of the parliamentary term. Perhaps, if the other groups present here had demonstrated for this norm a sensitivity similar to that proper to the 5 Star Movement, this bill, necessary and urgent, would have been approved for some time. THE COURT (PD). It's not fair: that's not how you do it! Mr Capelletti (M5S). The 5 Star Movement claims its fundamental role in the Commission, for having immediately supported the need to improve, in order to give greater effectiveness, the measure approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I recall that no group, except the 5 Star Movement, tabled amendments, demonstrating in this way the precise will to leave the norm as it had come. No changes: take or leave, and it didn't matter that it wasn't effective. This was not the case: it was necessary, but in the end it became clear in the Commission that, as the House had received, the rule was in danger of being very difficult to apply and in some respects it was even more restrictive than the current one. In short, it could have been a painful step backwards. We have therefore agreed, as the 5 Star Movement, to a reopening of the time limits for tabling amendments. [[Senator Lo Giudice's comments.]] What I say is in the proceedings of the Senate Justice Commission. This has led to broad political convergence, on a text which is widely shared. We all know that the true strength of the Mafia is represented by the connivance of those who are not Mafia. By voting for this measure, we are therefore giving a strong signal of the state's presence in the fight against the Mafia. Sure, that's not enough. I heard a comment that struck me very much by an authoritative colleague from another Group: It was twenty years since we wanted to achieve this result. Well, maybe today's conditions have really changed. Perhaps today the time is ripe to take back those many measures against the Mafia that have been disassembled for too long. Today we are voting, I hope unanimously, for a measure which clearly shows how the state stands, this state which we all represent here today, with respect to a choice of field, for a fight against the mob without hesitation and without hesitation. My hope, therefore, is that this rule can be adopted unanimously, representing in this way the right and proper signal long requested by many of our best magistrates, often left too alone in the front line in the fight against the mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u69	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by those who have spoken before me, and I sincerely have no objections to them, but I believe that here we are celebrating and competing for those who are most opposed to the mafia and criminal associations is of little use. However, I must point out two aspects of the issue, which are eminently political, because I believe that the legal part and all the perplexities that result from it has already expressed Senator Falanga with a wealth of details. When we go to take certain measures that concern not only the fight against crime, but also the means by which the state conducts this fight, we must be careful that the remedy is not worse than evil. Since we live in a time when there is a disproportionate, to put it this way, between the legislative power, politics in the broad sense, and the judiciary, which exercises control in a way, as I said yesterday, irresponsible (because the constitutional dictation does not assign to this order of the state that has made itself power of responsibility), we must be careful not to throw the child away with dirty water. We must have instruments in order to be able to pursue those who, in the political struggle or in the exercise of their political and institutional mandate, indulge or, worse still, are conniving in various forms with organized crime, but I would not wish that with this additional instrument, which presents semantic ambiguities, as has just been mentioned by those who preceded me, we should grant further will and further discretion to that part of the judiciary that makes use of it, makes good use of it, and that almost always is addressed to a certain political part. Leo Longanesi said: "It is difficult to be a Bulgarian poet." He said that because in Soviet Bulgaria poetry was not much practiced. There was Marxist Orthodoxy. And, for those who live in Val d'Aosta, Veneto, Lombardy and other regions where the phenomena of organized crime are not consubstantial to the territory, it is very easy to come and celebrate the heroes who have sacrificed themselves in the fight against the mafia, who are all southern. Those who live in those contexts find first of all in their conscience the time to face these forms of violence and to oppose them. But that's not the problem. If we offer discretionary instruments in the hands of those who use them in a senseless and irresponsible way, we are now killing many people who will subjugate innocent people to the use of this rule. And I know I don't like saying these things, because it's very simple to say the opposite. Then I want to tell a story, and I tell it to the President of the Senate, who was one of the most valuable magistrates. I tell you this because, in fact, this rule has remained ambiguous, since there has been an external intervention of the magistrate Canton. He is a very good person and I think he will be running for President of the Regional Council in the next elections in Campania (so as to go to confirm how close certain ties are then: but let's forget it, this is an inscription). Saviano intervened and Cantone intervened, saying that this norm, as it was written by the House, they did not like it. This is further evidence of the power of the courts. On the other hand, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and other courts are very often involved in giving opinions on legislation, even if they are not due. And so we have to change this rule because there has been a spurious intervention, an external intervention. But what is the story I wanted to tell you, Mr President? It is the story of a regional councillor named Roberto Conte, who was arrested a few years ago because the head of the Sanità district, a certain Misso, interrogated said he had received 120 million lire from Roberto Conte, having obtained the Count a certain number of votes from organized crime. It is the case in particular that has been treated here. Roberto Conte had taken in those sections six votes (one, two, three, four, five and six) and it was established, in the course of the debate, that none of the family members or relatives of this camorrist had gone to the seat; but the review court said - aulically, as I heard here - that the number does not count, but the promise counts, counts the fact that they came into contact with organized crime. The process takes place and we see, in the sloping, an incongruity with respect to what had been deposited by the prosecutors. There the first question appeared to have been: "Do you know Roberto Conte?." "Yes, I know him, he gave me 120 million lire." Instead, the recording had not been spooled well. There was a minute and a half untranscribed registration, from which, in full trial, it emerged that the first question asked by the prosecutors (--Do you know Roberto Conte?) had received the answer: No, I don't know him. Tell me who he is and I'll tell you if I know anything. It's court proceedings. I tell you this because Roberto Conte's position was immediately removed in that trial, which for three years, Mr President, has been making constant demands for his trial to be fixed. That trial will be prescribed, because if the lawyers did that, they would have been arrested in this House. Justice in Italy is also this; the abuses that are perpetrated in Italy are also this. And there must be a part in this House that tells you these things when you do Salamanca's learned about adverbs. Is there a common will to give this rule, to codify the external competition in Mafia association, which is a vague crime and which allows prosecutors to make their own comfortable, to incarcerate and to inquisite with news " de relato de relato "? Justice is not done with the pieces in color, dear Senator Lumia, with the adjective qualified: it is done with a global reform, where you are a justiceist, I defend the citizens. [[Applause from Senators Barani and Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u71	Senator Olivero is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u72	Mr President, Mr. Representative of the Government, the step that the Senate is about to take is important and long awaited by the many who fight every day, in the North and in the South of our country, to fight the mafias and their ramification in politics and economy, to fight the vote of exchange and to fight those who, carrying out political tasks, put themselves at the service of the cosche is indispensable to the ransom of politics, and therefore of the State, in territories raped every day by evil and crime. The only way to break unconfessible relations between politics and mafias is to use strictness towards those who engage in politics for the community. The honour of serving the country cannot be muddled by the contiguity or connivance with the anti-state, with those who every day destroy the social fabric, the resources, the same future of the national community. Colleagues, we must therefore give a strong signal of transparency and rigour. In politics there can no longer be room for ambiguity or wink towards the mafias, without if and without but. And the commitment must be even stronger today in front of the mafia of white collars, the one quoted on the Stock Exchange, educated and educated of the living rooms and well rooted, in the North as well as in the South, and often even cosmopolitan. The text that we dismiss today must therefore contain severity and determination, with a single attention that I invite to have collegially: it is necessary that the rules are applicable and not only of the roboating Manzoni cries, and at the same time that they do not lend their side to pretending applications based on suspicion and mud. The mafias - we know this because we have seen it many times in recent years, and you, Mr President, certainly know it more than all of us - do not love black and white: everything tries to make grey, using suspicions, false repentances, friendships and parental relations. Then let us consider carefully the amendment tabled by my colleague, Senator Albertini, which can help us not to fall into dangerous ambiguities. But if we have at heart the rule of law and the safeguard of the goodness of those who expose themselves to the risks associated with the assumption of public responsibility, especially in some contexts of our country, we cannot have hesitations and we must be extremely determined and convinced today of the step we take. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we give a first tangible response to the hundreds of thousands of citizens who, through the campaign "Restarting the future," promoted by Libera, asked us to commit ourselves to legality and justice. We are certainly not close to the result, we know, as we know that we still have a lot to do and that we have a responsibility to represent institutions in which there has not always been the necessary transparency and the necessary ideal attention on the part of all the components, but from now on we have a little more confidence in the possible change. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u73	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u74	Mr President, we in the Left Ecology and Freedom also consider the vote that the Senate will take on this measure, for which we have fought ourselves. On the other hand, at the beginning of the parliamentary term we also presented a draft law to this effect. We would also like to say that, in our view, the wording adopted in the Senate is more appropriate than that which had been imagined in the House to combat a phenomenon that is not even more typically southern, but extended throughout the national territory, I refer to the purchase of packets of votes by mob organisations. At last the exchange is punished, not only when money is offered, but also when the politician, the candidate, makes himself available to the criminal association, for example promising usefulness as can be the contracts or other favors. I was saying, the text is better than the one approved in the House because it avoids any reference to a concept that risked being ambiguous, that is, the procurement of votes as the object of the pact between mafias and politicians. We have worked for many months on this measure and I think it is important to remember, other colleagues have said so before me, that for once politics has been able to meet a challenge, that for once politics has been careful compared to what was going on in civil society. And the extraordinary challenge that Don Luigi Ciotti, signed by 300,000 Italians who wanted the type of this crime to be finally extended, seems to us to be able to say that for once it has been collected. We would like to add a more political reflection, if I may say so. During all these years very often in the Italian law on the fight against the mafia, the various laws that have been produced against crime, against the mafias, have often been a response that was necessary either in the face of a violence suffered, or a humiliation, or a theft of truth, or an aggression, or an attack. 18.49 (Followed by Mr de Cristofaro). On the other hand, the fact that for once the law is not a response to a specific event that has caused dismay in public opinion, that is not simply a response to a mourning, represents the ability of the policy to take up a challenge that was born out of here. And that seems to us a very, very significant fact. We want to understand this precisely, we hope in a non-optimistic way, as the first step towards legislation that over the years will increasingly be able to welcome the positive movements that pass through the public opinion of our country. It is also because, Mr President and Senators, when an electoral exchange offence is being committed between politics and the Mafia, it is not simply the vote that is being polluted, but democracy as a whole is being polluted, because democratic balances are being altered. We have read this a thousand times in the course of the judicial and political chronicles of these years, with reference to local administrators, municipal councillors, regional councillors and even national parliamentarians. How many times has the exchange of votes occurred with the assurance to the clan of a favor, a collusion, an element of power, or even simply of prestige? And how much has this affected, ladies and gentlemen, the growth of the feeling of detachment of huge parts of public opinion towards politics? I think that we should ask ourselves a lot about this, because I am convinced that the price paid in terms of credibility by democratic institutions over the years is very serious, even in relation to these elements of subalternity with regard to evil and the mafia, rather than to the clan. When it happens that one who makes politics is considered by the clan one who holds himself - as it is said - and then politics becomes a place of obedience because of a certain favor, it is clear that the democratic mechanism is broken. Obeying means in fact precise things: it means promising privileged lanes, preferential lanes, procurement lanes. So the old provision of the penal code was a little naive - and that is why I think it was very fair to have a regulatory intervention - when it was thought that we could simply monetize the exchange between politics and the mafias. It was in fact really difficult to know what could be worth in terms of current currency, for example, participation in a multiservice, rather than the possibility of having an ASL that perhaps, by number of users and by quantity of contracts, is a very strong instrument of power and control of the territory. It has also been recalled - and I associate myself with this memory - that the main purpose of crime, of mafias, of camorra, of 'ndrangheta, is precisely to permeate and enter as a protagonist in political and institutional life, and the electoral exchange is the main business card. This is all the more true - as has also been pointed out by my fellow Members who have spoken before me - for the so-called white-collar mafias. Obedience is precisely the classic pact that suits everyone: it is convenient for the thigh that promises the votes; it is convenient for the politician who sells and who gets consent, protection and guarantee of a certain career. We cannot forget, Madam President, that we have a context around us, with which we have been confronting each other all these years. However, although over the past few years, especially when there has been the greatest attack on institutions and the state, there has been a capacity on the part of the institutions to respond to this type of attack, it is true that in recent years very often, unfortunately, the threshold of attention has been lowered to the attack brought to the state by crime. If this were not the case, it would not have happened that more than 200 municipalities were dissolved during these years due to camorristic and mafia infiltration. It happened in our country that a municipality even the capital of the Region, Reggio Calabria, had within it a situation with a few dozen executives related to representatives of the coasts, as well as a large number of municipal councillors arrested. Even though the funeral of a mob boss had been forbidden by the commissioner of Reggio Calabria, some thousands of people showed up, leading the funeral procession with very authoritative political representatives of that territory. But Reggio Calabria is not alone. Think of what happens in the land where I live, in Campania, in the Province of Naples. Think that, for example, in the Province of Naples, in the Municipality of Quarto, also this loose obviously and inevitably due to mafia infiltrations - we were a few days ago with a delegation of the Anti-Mafia Commission - happened even that in the municipal elections a candidate was elected, although he had been arrested 15 days before and at the time of the election he was in prison, where he is also serving today, fortunately, a condemnation for very serious facts. This is the context, which is no different from what we are telling: it is the same context that sees more than 100 regional advisors investigated throughout Italy. In short, after the years in which politics had tried, following the crisis in Tangentopoli, to put in place also some elements of value and symbolic, which even could allude to an attempt to get out of a dramatic condition that had marked the history of Italy for a long time, we have fallen back into this type of situation. I think that, in order to respond to all this, the civil courage of those who have been fighting with courage for years is, of course, in politics, institutions, civil society and also in entrepreneurship. But civil courage is not enough. We also need the duty of good policy to be in tune with all this. I think wearing that bracelet, which many parliamentarians have worn for many months, was really a field choice because sometimes the fight against the mafia also goes through some symbolic gestures. And some symbolic gestures, according to us, can be productive of great results. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senator Lo Giudice]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u75	He asked to intervene to clarify Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u76	Madam President, I think that before Senator D'Anna was a little hasty to go and judge on which side the good is and on which side the evil in the fight against the Mafia, also because, if it is true that it has spread throughout the country, it is equally true that the sacrifices had no border. I remember only one: that of General Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa. Person that the North has generously lent to the whole country and who has lost his own life in the land of Sicily. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u77	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u78	Madam President, we are here today to work on a very important text, which is probably not immediately felt by the belly of all citizens. But perhaps we are talking about rules that mark an important step in this fight against organised crime, a fight that unfortunately affects Italy still in our years, despite all the efforts that have been made. We take this opportunity to recall the great contribution, support and attention given by the North League in the fight against the Mafia. And I take this opportunity to remind you that he has been with a Minister of the Interior of the North League, Roberto Maroni, who has achieved truly exceptional results, with particular regard to the fight against organized crime, so much so as to become the object of appreciation also by foreign countries, who have made it a praise and who have hired them as a model. To speak are the data, documented in the files that were periodically published on the website of the Ministry of the Interior: 8,466 Mafias arrested (of which 32 fugitives of maximum danger) for a total of 778 judicial police operations. But the fight against the Mafia was not limited to the arrest of its representatives: Minister Maroni wanted to strike it right at the heart, in his economic interests, in the resources that allow organizations to finance themselves and to finance all activities related to micro and macro crime. A hard blow, which led, in September 2011, to 55,087 assets seized (of which 2,282 companies), for a total value of 25,3 billion euros. It's a huge asset. Also at the behest of Minister Maroni, as regards the sums of money seized from the mafia and the proceeds derived from the seized goods, these were placed in the Single Guarantee Fund (a novelty introduced by the Government in 2008) to be employed in projects in the field of security and justice. In fact, those sums were divided 50 percent between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. This was merely a premise to point out that we, as a North-League Group, will fully and firmly support this draft law, as presented today and as it emerged from the Commission's examination. In some ways, we were already satisfied with the first version of the Chamber, so much so that, even in that Chamber, we had voted in favour. It is perhaps a bit regrettable that the text had been voted unanimously in that Chamber and that, when it came to the Senate, it had been amended (amendments had been tabled) and therefore a debate was opened, first in the Commission and then in the House. Among other things, we in the Northern League Group have called for the lifting of the deliberative seat in order to be able to discuss this issue in this House. It seems to me that it is also right here to mention the reasons which have led us to this step. It would certainly have been very good if a text identical to the one that had been fired from the House had come out of the Commission, but seeing that considerations had been made and expressed doubts about the text, it was considered right to examine it very thoroughly and to come to this House in order to be able to confront us all on this issue. We believe that the Commission's text is absolutely satisfactory. No rules ever come out perfect; on the other hand, perhaps it was enough just this text of law to be able to eliminate, discourage and solve the problem that unfortunately binds the world of organized crime and the political world! It's something that doesn't have to exist. It is hoped that this text will be another important step because it must be, and is, an important step in order to break down and completely untie those that can be possible links that pollute the political activity at any level. The honourable Members who have spoken before me have certainly examined the rule in its most technical profiles. We, as the Lega Nord Group, insist and reaffirm our total willingness to approve legal texts that can be, like the configuration of this crime, another bulwark against the Mafia. We have been talking about this for years; it was hoped that it could be a memory in history books, but the fact that we are still talking about it here and we are examining these texts of such great importance unfortunately makes us think that the phenomenon persists. The activity of the politician is very, but very delicate. It is an activity that certainly sees the exponent as the bearer of interests of the community that affect all our civil life. Therefore, the reality of the Mafia and the Mafia associations must be absolutely removed and abandoned and must have no reference to the activity of the politician. We are voting in favour at this stage. Very interesting amendments have been tabled; the debate has taken place and the positions have been understood. We would like to be able to adopt a text voted by everyone, because we must all be united against this terrible reality, which is the Mafia. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u79	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u80	Madam President, Undersecretary Ferri, ladies and gentlemen, on the importance of the draft law we are debating, it could seem rhetorical and almost routine institutional, but only to a particularly distracted and careless listener. In fact, as pointed out by several colleagues both by majority and minority, the topic we are dealing with is delicate and complex and, therefore, extremely important for our country in the historical phase that we are going through, both for the economic and social and political aspects. In fact, our debate cannot at all be without the awareness of the rampant, as destructive, phenomenon of corruption, which finds in the vote of political exchange-mafioso its most perverse implementation, whose topicality can be questioned only by those who are in bad faith. So much so that even the ordinary citizen knows that the vote of exchange materializes an anti-democratic intention, with serious moral offense and even economic damage to the state and the social fabric that, in short, coincide. It is in the vote of exchange, in fact, that the greatest offense to democracy and to what a state and a people together constitute is consumed. Therefore, we all agree, I believe, that we want to strike more drastically, through the bill in question, this crime, as the citizens ask, sometimes silently, but very often through the numerous associations and communities present in the vast and complex social context of the national territory. And here I would like to mention the social commitment made by Libera and with Don Ciotti's group Abele. I would also like to thank my fellow Members who have joined the White Bracelets movement, as well as the members of the Justice Commission who have quickly dismissed the text we are debating today. But, discussing this topic, we cannot fail to think and remember with gratitude the names of Carlo Albero Dalla Chiesa, Pio La Torre, Giovanni Falcone, Paolo Borsellino, because, if we are here today to define more effectively the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, we owe it also to the example of a great and strong lesson of service to the State and their extreme sacrifice; but we also owe it to the powerful cultural phenomenon that gave rise to a ferment of associations and movements of citizens, which they too gave, push and urge to speed up bringing the provision into the Chamber. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is upbuilding for all of us today to be actors who are concretely implementing what have long been the hopes, the sacred reasons and the demands of tens of millions of honest citizens. Therefore, by realizing this, we must live up to these natural and democratic expectations. That of the text of Article 416b of the Criminal Code is a change of clear political value; it demonstrates the commitment of this Parliament to serious action and a courageous, but necessary, responsibility towards the citizens. This is a response to a vulnus for the fight against corruption in a system of power that, in a modern and democratic country, cannot enjoy any kind of indulgence. Specifically, for the case-law, the subject matter of Article 416b of the Criminal Code falls within the category of multi-offense crimes, which are responsible for the supervision of the principle of democratic legality and representative of political institutions. Therefore, the prescription in analysis aims to interrupt the impact of the mafia phenomenon on the search for consensus, in order to avoid the compromise of the same foundations on which the structure of the state stands, guaranteeing the interest of public order, which would have a greater protection against mafia infiltrations and conditionings, safeguarding the hinges on which our republican system is based and guaranteeing more access to the elective offices under conditions of genuine equality and with citizens truly free to express their preferences. Obviously, the current wording of Article 416 -ter is not enough, since it limits the crime to those who get the promise of votes in exchange for money, that is, a formulation that leaves ample room for impunity. The current definition of the exchange price refers only to monetary terms, to the provision of money. On the other hand, it is very important to introduce the term "other utility" in order to introduce an additional element such as the assignment of an assignment, or any type of contract that, directly or indirectly, brings money or other advantages. Therefore, given the variety of performances that can be obtained with the political-mafia exchange, as the norm has been formulated so far, it has not allowed the political-mafia pact to be effectively and completely opposed by our order. Otherwise, the new text aims well to limit a crime before too random, and therefore hardly punishable, often in spite of complaints and investigations. Now there can be no alibi, no way out. The rewording of Rule 416-b proposed by the Commission brings improvements to the text approved in the Chamber of Deputies and introduces changes to the current Article 416-ter of the Criminal Code. The element of the promise alone becomes in itself sufficient to configure the trade pact case. Thus, every randomity of which I mentioned before will be eliminated, since, in addition to the same article 416 -ter, the first paragraph, exceeding the limit of the payment in money, finally speaks - as said before - of other utility, that is, of other advantages or profits. It is - I believe - a crucial step, because it puts an end to any limit and misunderstanding, aspects which, over the years, faced with behaviour that remained vague, certainly represented a difficulty for the punishable nature of this type of crime. As far as the acceptance of the exchange vote is concerned, the crucial aspect is that the crime is consumed at the time when the same acceptance takes place: this means that the moment of the consumption of the crime is important. With regard to the sentence, however, the bill had an important change in the Senate Justice Commission: the prison sentence for the political-mafia voting offence was raised to an interval ranging from seven to twelve years, compared to the four to ten years previously proposed. In fact, in the course of the cognitive activities in the Justice Commission, it has been pointed out that the external competition in Mafia association, characterized by the maintenance and strengthening of the Mafia association, is punished with the penalty from seven to twelve years. It has therefore been decided to amend the sentence provided for in Article 416-b, which contains a crime which is independent of the effective strengthening of the criminal association. In other words, this is the way to strike at a very specific behavior. Another important change made to the text by the Senate Justice Commission also sees the introduction of the principle of criminality of the politician who makes himself available to the mob organisation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the correct and appropriate completion of the legal wording of Article 416-b, which finally makes clear a thousand-faced crime, but which is difficult to trace and therefore prosecute first. Moreover - and this is certainly not a secondary aspect - the legislative amendment tends to restore great dignity and autonomy to the exercise of the right to vote, guaranteed and protected by our Constitution. This rule of public and democratic order is also a reform that precedes the electoral and constitutional one, and it is right that it is so: before the legitimacy of the Executive and Parliament, the genuineness of the citizens' vote comes, since only through them elect Parliament and give the political address to the country. Sovereignty belongs to the people and its instrument, the vote, must be protected and guaranteed, but mainly it must be free and clean. And there can be no genuine, free and clean vote if the various Mafia organizations enter the electoral booth with their threats, coercions and false and perverse promises. I conclude, Mr President, with a feeling of greater satisfaction for this political phase, because we are acting in the right direction, given that the exercise of the right to vote, free and unconditional, has so far been too vile and highly conditioned. This I would like to stress that it has occurred mainly in the regions of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, where politics has had strong and devastating connivances with organized crime, also thanks to the vote of exchange, where corruption has trampled on the rights and dignity of people, hindering a healthy and authentic economic, cultural and even political development of society. But this also applies to the other Italian regions, even those of Northern Italy, where the mafia phenomenon committed to politics is now a fact. Suffice it to mention in this regard several investigations carried out in regions and municipalities of the North, from which it appears that some candidates have turned to the clan malavitosi for votes: and here it was not isolated cases, but a real national system of corruption now tried, certified and controlled by organized crime. Now we want - because the Italians want it - to end this political and social degradation and to return to breathe the area of a new policy, cleaner and free from all criminal conditioning; a policy made also by young people, women, really free people, in short, that contributes with better energy and more effectively to the functioning of our State, for the good and development of the whole country. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, since everything has already been said about this very important rule for the fight against corruption and the Mafia exchange vote, both by my colleagues and by those of other political forces, I shall confine myself to a reflection on the process that has brought here today a rule that we share. It was a process that - as my colleagues have said before, but without wanting to take away anything from others - saw my Group, the 5 Star Movement, engaged and - if we want to - even driving at a certain stage. The measure was voted unanimously by the House, but it did not satisfy civil society and associations, who launched the campaign "Restarting the future": I refer to the Free Association of Don Ciotti, the Abel Group, Citizenship for Magistracy, the Addiopizzo Committee, etc. There has been a pressure that we of the Movement have collected, as well as other colleagues: this does not want to be the umpteenth destructive criticism that is charged to us, but a reflection on the fact that, when there is the will and the principles shared and we want to work, we reach results, which I hope will be realized precisely in the vote in favour of this text, which we consider to be fundamental. We know that corruption - it has already been widely said - is an evil, and perhaps the evil that most conditions, plagues and destroys the economic, social and political fabric of this country; a phenomenon that has really allowed an exchange between politics, business, the mafia and organized crime and that must therefore be cut off, in the North as well as in the South, as my colleague said before. I come from Piemonte, where Bardonecchia was perhaps the first police station for mafia infiltrations. I mention the Val di Susa, which currently presents problems in that respect with the work in progress in that reality. This is, therefore, a very transversal basic rule. I believe that these considerations also lead to another reflection, which is perhaps in a more tragic sense. As a political class we must succeed in this Parliament, in the Commissions, in really discussing things. I assure you that for a citizen like me, who is also a neophyte of parliamentary activity, it was a moment of great demonstration of work, of contrast but also of confrontation, certainly, with colleagues who have a great experience in the field, more than me and other members of the 5 Star Movement (I am referring to my colleagues Casson and Lumia, but also to others). It is indeed a great result that, after this journey, we succeed in having a text shared with the requests of Italian citizens and the associations that carry them. It is exactly the chain that we of the 5 Star Movement (we call ourselves "spoke spokesperson" on purpose) strongly vindicate and re-launch to everyone: a feedback that constantly keeps these very important classrooms connected with civil society, with the citizens. If all this has generated - and I hope it brings it to a positive conclusion - such a result, then we can also do so with the rest, with other issues, such as work, with important emergencies, putting aside any interests that any faction can have inside and spending really synergistically to solve the problems of the country. I think this is a really great moment. In view of the fact that we appreciate the ability of politics to achieve such results, I ask you to tell your newspapers, your party secretaries that the 5 Star Movement is not frozen: it is here to work and it is here that laws are made, not on television, in newspaper editorials or in private homes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The laws are here in Parliament and, as we have brought home this result, we can bring many more. Thank you, and I really hope that we will achieve the goal we have set ourselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u84	Madam President, although we are few at the moment, despite the importance of the subject, I believe that some reflections should be made. The first is that we are faced with a phenomenon, that of the mafia and criminal organizations, no longer relegated to some regions of our country, but now spread throughout the national territory. The second reflection is that we must be careful, when discussing criminal organizations and mafias, in drawing up rules that leave no interpretative doubts, because otherwise we give a gift to the mafia. And I come to make some comments. I'm taking inspiration from what Senator Airola said earlier. If we were here to discuss the 5 Star Movement bill, we probably wouldn't have had any amendments, because we all agreed. The proposal recalled by Senator Giarrusso, however, does not refer to the availability towards the association, because that - I agree - must be punished, but it is not referred to in the proposal made by the 5 Star Movement Group, but in that of Senator Fravezzi. We must be careful, however, I have already said so in the Commission and I repeat that. We must take into account what we are doing with awareness. Inserting the elements that characterize the external competition according to the interpretation of the Court of Cassation (in the absence of a rule) in this measure poses a problem. Parliament intervenes in a specific rule using the elements that characterize the external competition, but does not regulate the external competition. Having been a magistrate for forty years I note that this poses a problem of interpretation: is it still possible, after this rule, to apply the external competition in the matter of political-mafia exchange? This is a first problem. The second problem must be carefully examined. I listened to Senator Casson who rightly referred to the word "consciously." We all agree that it had to be removed, because it was misunderstanding, and everything that is misunderstanding must be eliminated. However, it is necessary to correctly identify the mode. I believe that one of the worst things for a politician is to accept promises or exchanges of votes even by ordinary people, not belonging to mafia associations, for money or other utility. The Court of Cassation, already with the old rule, with the rule still in force today, had reached, although it was said only "denaro" to give an interpretation extended to other economically quantifiable utilities. So, she had already gone beyond what the norm said. Today we anticipate the punishableness of the promise. I have no difficulty in saying that this can be a correct thing. But the text reads: "Anyone who accepts the promise to obtain votes in accordance with the procedure laid down in the third paragraph of Article 416-a- You must bear in mind that a rule has an effect if, at the time it is applied, it allows the interpretation, the identification of what the norm itself says. Let's assume that there is between a politician and a person belonging to the mafia, to the camorrah or to the 'ndrangheta exchange of a promise, but that there are no subsequent activities. I agree that this must be punished, but since the procedures referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a have not been put in place, there is no element qualifying the promise. So, we need to identify the subjective element, which is not here. In order for the promise to be relevant to the text approved by the Commission, the prosecutor must be able to prove his intention to use the instruments referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416 bis. If you don't try, there's no more crime. In my opinion, the subjective element must be qualified. That is why I have tabled amendments which should serve, as we have done on less important issues. I have been rapporteur for the measure adopted today in this House concerning the buildings to be demolished: we have found an intermediate solution that has satisfied everyone. So, what is the situation that we need to improve? The "anyone" is not enough: the subject in question must have the awareness of dealing with a person who is associated with the mafia, the camorra, the "ndrangheta" or any criminal association. So I am interested in this very first part of the amendments that I have proposed. The rapporteur and the government make an effort to identify an identification: the subject must have the subjective awareness of talking to a person belonging to the mafia. As you can see, in Amendment 1.6 I refer to the use of the modalities provided for in the third paragraph of Article 416-a of the Criminal Code: that is the same thing. In this way there is a qualification, and that is enough for me to find a path of condemnation. Colleagues, if the text remains as it is, do you realize what instruments the Mafia has put in place against the magistrates and what instruments the Mafia has put in place against some politicians? For example, if the text stays that way, who rules out the possibility of having false repentances that may accuse Guy or Caius of accepting a promise? Since those activities referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a have not been implemented, there is no possibility of defence, without any possibility of identification of the relationships. That is why we should improve this text: I do not tell you to accept the proposed amendments, but to consider the part that identifies what the House of Deputies wanted to do (take care: with a unanimous vote). It would be very important if we could find a solution with a unanimous vote. Symbols also apply in the fight against the Mafia, as Senator De Cristofaro recalled earlier: it is true. It is therefore necessary to identify the subjective element well. I have seen that Mr Susta and Mr Albertini have also made an effort to resolve this problem. Most of the amendments relate to this issue, which must be resolved, Mr President. The subjective element must be identified, because otherwise there is the risk of creating a rule that, instead of fighting the phenomenon, will also result in a "non-fighting" to the mafia, camorristic phenomenon or to certain types of crime. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). It could even lead to a wave of rejection compared to the norm, if it were possible to use it improperly, to achieve a result that the mafia wants and that we intend to fight. Therefore, in this respect, I believe that a further effort should be made in the examination of the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Capacchione is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u85	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, everything is for sale, including democracy. And if there is a graduality in its progressive compromise, in the corrosion of the relationship of trust between citizens and institutions, in the betrayal of Republican values contained in the Constitution, it is a graduality that begins with the acceptance of small favors, preferred to rights, which gradually becomes mutual convenience to corruption and to a particular, private, management of the public thing: management that in Mafia lands becomes itself distinctive character of the Mafia. The vote is the instrument of the exchange: the administrative vote and the political vote, passing through the elections of organizations of category and finance for the primaries. The free expression of one's consent bartered with the promise of favors or protection, co-arted through the search for procacciatori of votes able to impose, by virtue of one's power, one preference rather than another, one candidate (or one party) in place of the other. If there is a pathology that has bled out our democracy it is to be found precisely in the mechanisms of consensus: in the southern regions, where mafia organizations are traditionally established, and then away - following the line of the palm tree, climbed well more than 500 meters a year optimistically indicated by Leonardo Sciascia more than fifty years ago and arrived now in the Alps - in those of the North, which the volcano wanted free from infiltration of organized crime. The last judicial investigations concerning Lombardy, Piedmont, Liguria, have finally swept away any remaining illusion about the immunity of those Regions in which, on the contrary, the search by the candidate for that consent acquired by subjects related to the 'ndrangheta has proved more evident. Vows bought with cash but even more with the promise of future favors or a more general, and treacherous, made available for your friendship and availability. Therefore, with regard to the mafia and politics, there is a need for a deep social reclamation. And in this direction goes the modification of Article 416-b of the penal code, which punishes the vote of political-mafia exchange. This article has been poorly applied in the current wording, given that it is almost impossible to demonstrate the sale of consent through the donation of money, since it is rather other useful - procurement, services, public supplies, recruitment in the participants - the currency used by the political party to reward the mafia procacciator of consensus. In the wording dismissed by the House, as we have pointed out in the Commission (and here I regret in some way to contradict my colleague Buccarella's first intervention: there was a sequel to opposing interventions, all of them, from the first day on which the measure arrived in the Commission in the deliberating session; from my colleague Lumia, we all pointed out, gradually, of the very serious shortcomings and major criticalities in the text that had been fired, albeit unanimously, by the Chamber), the article continued to be intended for non-application. That was our judgment, and that was why we came to today's debate later. This wording had extended the subject of the exchange by adding the words "other utility," already indicated, for example, in Articles 318 and 319 of the penal code that punish corruption; but it had introduced other references, such as that to the procurement or to the awareness of the mafia methodology used by the vow seller, which would have obliged the judge to demonstrate the effectiveness of the procurement with the use of weapons or other intimidation systems, imposing in fact a diabolic probatio, also because the mafia today, of these times, no longer threatens according to the traditional systems, but fits, presents itself with the face of the professional, of the white collar, of those who only need to let know who is, without using other instrument, therefore has no need to intimidate according to the traditional rules of the mafia threat. Again, that measure left in the limbo of impunity those behaviors preparatory to the exchange and, of course, the agreement between the politician and the mob, regardless of the outcome of the same. Agreement, it is worth remembering, which represents the true vulnus, the moment of the vertical fall of the democratic rules to the advantage of the mafia, and that presupposes the provision to the mafia subject of goods belonging to the community. More and more investigations of the judiciary show that the vote of exchange becomes increasingly decisive in determining the balance of Italian politics. It has also assumed systematic methods and proportions thanks to the mediation provided by organised crime. Today it is not only the individual politician who promises something in exchange for one vote to the individual elector: whole blocks of votes, in some cases tens of thousands, are sold to the highest bidder by the mafia clans. The daily survey of organised crime estimates that the impact of the Mafia exchange vote can be quantified in 5% of preferences in the North Regions. He also knows that the economic power (even before military) of organized crime lies right where the state lacks it, unable to offer itself as an attractive alternative to the Mafia even before it effectively counteracts it. Also because, as Salvatore Lupo said, there is a mafia demand in the fields of entrepreneurship and politics, the financial and economic system, which still claims to be satisfied. Inquiries in recent years are an unequivocal sign of the immediate need to act to counter the exchange vote. The complete exercise of the right to vote is possible only if the electoral competition takes place in full legality, an objective that, in the Italian context, necessarily passes from the decisive contrast to organized crime, which, with this measure, will have received a significant and lasting defeat. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u86	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u87	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u88	Madam President, I would have honestly preferred the debate to take place more closely by my colleagues who are not in charge of the work, because the debate has been reduced to those who are members of the Justice Commission and who have therefore already done so... MARTON (M5S). Not only that. D'ADDA (PD). Not only that. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Not only that. Mr Buemi, rapporteur. In small part, there is also the presence of other senators. However, this is a debate which we have already had and which has certainly found some points of synthesis, but which would also have needed the contribution and enrichment of the whole House. I hope that in the debate that will take place during the examination of the amendments this awareness and this contribution will emerge. We are certainly dealing with an innovative and very useful standard for countering mafia organisations. However, this is a rule to be used rigorously by the investigative judiciary and also by the judicial judge, because it is a rule of high delicacy. It therefore needs - as I said before - a rigorous approach, which we will try to define within the specific rule. But we also want, with equal awareness, to make available an effective instrument for combating a phenomenon that, as Mr Caliendo rightly said, is no longer only a phenomenon limited to parts of the national territory, but rather involves the whole of the national territory. The debate has been wide-ranging and convergent in many respects, but there are still some issues, which I hope we will be able to resolve with the debate on the amendments, because it would be a great act of political value if we adopted this innovative, delicate and effective legislative instrument with the agreement of all. I therefore expect, tomorrow morning, during the debate on the amendments, a united competition for the availability of all my colleagues, so that we can quickly give an instrument to those who carry out a very effective action in the fight against a phenomenon that disturbs us, worries us and which not only compromises, precisely because of its implications with regard to the element we are discussing (the one of the electoral exchange), the economy and the freedom of citizens, but also strongly affects the democratic process of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u89	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u90	Madam President, I have followed the debate with great interest and I really thank all those who have spoken, because they have provided a lot of inspiration. I have to say - as the rapporteur said better than I did - that there has nevertheless been a sharing of a text which has been adopted unanimously in the Commission. I must also say, since I have had the honour to follow this text also to the Chamber of Deputies, that the Senate - and we must acknowledge it to the Commission, to all its members and to its President - has taken a very important step forward; and it has done so not only in relation to the text currently in force: in fact, already Article 416-b, currently covered by the penal code, speaks of "promise," but as a constituent element, when it recalls the conduct, refers only to the promise of votes in exchange not for another promise, but for the provision of money." Today the Senate takes an important step forward in the fight against the Mafia, going in particular to hit one of the most important crimes (because in this way we also guarantee the constitutional structure, therefore our legislator), which is that of political-mafia electoral exchange, because today, with the text that the Senate proposes - I want to reiterate - the agreement between two promises is punished. So the step forward with respect to the current text is that criminality is no longer given by an agreement between promise and payment of money (in the current text, therefore, for the consummation of the crime the payment of money is necessary): today we go to punish the exchange between two promises, that is between the promise of the one who offers his own vows, therefore the mafiao who offers the package of votes, and the promise of the other who makes the agreement and promises (here is the other novelty with respect to the current text, the one currently covered by the penal code) not only money, but utility. Compared to the text of the House, the progress is even greater. Already the House had intervened correctly in predicting the usefulness, so without limiting itself to money (I first recalled article 416-b of the penal code currently in force, which says: "in exchange for the provision of money"). Beyond money, an important concept was introduced, that of utility, which can be of any kind. It is a utility that, in my opinion, the interpreter, the judge will have to assess, therefore a quantifiable utility also mediated in economic terms. However, the legislator today proposes a broad concept of utility, to be approached with money, because money might seem limiting. In this case we follow all the evolution of the case law, therefore the legislator follows the reasoning of the judge, above all of legitimacy, which, when talking about money, had extended the concept also to the utility; but it is right that today the legislator, as the House did, and therefore also the Senate, propose it explicitly. Moreover, both the Chamber and the Senate (it has already been said and underlined in several interventions) correct an error: of course, it was not legal but lexical, and it was clearly interpreted in the correct way by the magistrate; however, the norm referred to the promise of votes referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a, but in reality the third paragraph did not refer to the promise. So it is good that today's text refers - and this was also introduced by the Chamber - to the modalities referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a. So here too, legislative action is taken by correcting a technical error and providing a better description than that of the other text. From the last speeches - I have listened with particular attention to those of Senator Capacchione and Senator Caliendo - have also emerged several ideas. Senator Caliendo's intervention focuses on a few points. We have discussed so much about the subjective element; the Chamber had introduced the adverb "consciously" precisely to strengthen it. Let's not forget, however, Senator Casson has also remembered it today, as well as Senator Ginetti, that however Article 43 of the penal code already exists, and also provides for the dole, therefore the awareness on the part of the author of the crime, awareness that it is inherent in the subjective element. Among other things, this is another aspect of the non-negligible difference between the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies and the one dismissed by the Senate Justice Commission, as the Senators Airola and Giarrusso have already pointed out that they followed this procedure there. The other point of great novelty, which can be valued from the legal point of view and which must be explained to the House the importance and significance of the conduct, which in the text of the Senate, it seems to me as a result of amendment, is not limited to the exchange between two promises (payment of money and votes), but introduces another element, that is, the availability to meet the interests or needs of the association. That is the very important point, of which we really need to stress the importance. As has been said in some speeches, today for the first time in the case of the exchange vote the external competition is typical, of which we have spoken for many years, both in jurisprudence and in doctrine. In this way, it is proposed that the external competition be included in the exchange vote. A course, it must be said honestly, that was already punished with the external contest. In fact, in the event that at the point of fact there is a willingness to satisfy the interests, today the two crimes can compete, therefore Article 416-a can be contested today in competition with 416-b. This, to make it clear that it is an important course, that must be punished, but it is already punished: only that the legislator makes the choice to move it into Article 416-b. This too is one of the peculiarities of the text. The government believes a lot in this rule. He followed it very closely to the House, participating in the work, because he thinks it is the best possible response to the fight against the mafia, especially in combating a crime against which civil society has long been asking - all those who have done so have been remembered - for an intervention. I think that politics today gives one of the best answers to those who have long been asking for it and shows great attention to the outside world. The Government not only expresses great satisfaction, but guarantees great collaboration in improving, where possible, or making this rule more effective. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u91	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u94	ZANONI (PD). Madam President, Senators and Senators, I would like to make a communication here which is on the subject with this afternoon's speeches, bringing to the attention of the House a situation that we might find curious, if it were not inconceivable in a civilised country. Cumiana is a laughing country of 7,000 inhabitants between Turin and the mountains, become sadly famous for the judicial events that concerned the current municipal administration. For seven months the municipal administration is composed of only five councilors plus the mayor, insufficient number to make the municipal councils valid. Since then the procedure of surrogates has suffered interruptions and delays incompatible with the respect of the current legislation, determining the complete blockage of the municipal activity. Some citizens resorted to the TAR of Piedmont which, on 11 December 2013, declared illegal the interruption of the procedure of the Surrogates of candidates of minority lists, put in place following the council deliberations. It took more than thirty days for a council to be convened last week to elect subsequent surrogates of minority lists, to which regular letter of appointment was sent. In this council, however, the current municipal administration voted against the adoption of Surrogates, having intended to make an appeal to the Council of State. The decision of the TAR shall be enforceable immediately. Therefore, the decision of the current administration is an act that constitutes an abuse of office and is totally without any legitimacy. Some citizens at this point make a statement asking the Minister for an intervention by the prefect, calling for the adoption of a measure that restores the confidence of the Cubans in the institutions and ensures the application of the laws. We would like that of Cumiana not to become a case studied in some degree thesis to show how, in the absence of certain rules, an administration, albeit delegitimized, can continue to govern an entity. We hope that the Minister will respond as soon as possible and that this incredible situation will be resolved with the municipal police station and then give the citizens a voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u97	TURANO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, together with the United States Ambassador John Phillips, the Minister for Integration Cecile Kyenge, the State Secretary for Defence Roberta Pinotti, Senator Jacob, the Mayors of Neptune and Anzio and President Zingaretti, I took part in the ceremony in Anzio and Neptune for the seventy years of the Allied landing on the Lazio coast. This is an occasion that I would also like to mention in this House, because it is important both for Italian history and for the United States of America. Those boys from all over the world were not invaders, but liberators, who sacrificed their blood to help our country drive away the horrors of fascism and Nazism. This morning at the American cemetery I felt a strong sense of emotion in looking at their graves and for this reason today I wanted to speak to honor their memory and to remind each of us that even today many young people leave for missions of peace abroad and that all the Italian police forces in service daily risk their lives to guarantee security to our country. To them must go our thought and recognition on this particular day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u98	The Presidency supports the memory of the fallen of Anzio's landing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u99	I remember that, as already communicated to the Groups, in the afternoon session tomorrow will take place the commemoration of the Senator for Life Claudio Abbado.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-173.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 23 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.57 p.m.
