ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.32). Colleagues, as has already been announced to the Groups in the short term, I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.32 p.m. and resumed at 5.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the Brussels European Council of 20 and 21 March 2014." I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's and the day after tomorrow's meeting in Brussels is a particularly important event for our country, but I would say above all for the holding of the European institutions, which begin this 2014 (to say the truth, by now) at a time of serious difficulty for the Ukrainian crisis and great expectations that are involving the entire continent in the light of the renewal of the European bodies and institutions, which will give a new sap - we hope - to the process of European integration after the elections on 25 May and after the renewal of all the institutions. I say that we hope that there will be a new sap and an implementation of the path of European integration because it is known to all that not only in our country, but in the vast majority of the 28 countries of the Union is very strong and very much felt a feeling of growing anti-Europeanism, which starts from the assumption that Europe is the cause of the crisis. We as a government, on the contrary, believe that this is not the case and we ask the Senate and Parliament as a whole to consider Europe not as the cause of the crisis, but as a possible response to the economic crisis, I would say institutional, civil and, in some respects, even moral that affects our continent. I would then start with the conclusions, with what we expect from tomorrow: first of all, we expect a change of attitude. Too often the political class, even in Italy, has pointed out that our objective must be to avoid ending up, depending on the choice of countries in situations in difficulty, starting from Greece: we must not end Greece rather than other countries in difficulty. We think that this attitude must be totally reversed, because the point is not to end up with who, but to understand if there can be a new, concrete beginning, I would say a new horizon that we want to give to the path of European unification. For this to happen, the three stakes that have been discussed since tomorrow - that of competitiveness, in a new framework in which climate, energy, employment and development are held together, that of the holding of accounts and that of the international politics of our country - must be addressed by a ruling class, also in our country, able to say that we do not go to Europe to take the list of tasks to do, but, awakening the great message of the founding Fathers, awakening the great message that characterized decades of Italian political and cultural contribution to Europe, let's go tell what kind of Europe we want. In order to get there, however, our Government believes that a reform process is not to be postponed, to which I have already referred during the speech with which I asked the senators for confidence, and that then it has been the subject of further elaborations by the Government: a set of reforms that characterize us as credible in Europe. We are not asking Europe for permission: we are telling Europe that we will be credible only and only if the things we have been discussing for 20 years will finally be achieved. It is not a matter of making a foreign Head of State happy to say that we are going through an administrative model that is too fragmented with the text on the Provinces that is to your attention (I believe in the attention of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs) right now: it is a matter of restoring credibility to the Italian institutions. Overcoming the perfect bicameralism, endowing us with a new electoral law, changing the relationship between the central state and regional institutions, issues that lie within a constitutional bill that the Senate will have to deal with in the coming weeks is not a way to make some Heads of State happy: it is a way to be consistent with the idea that those who want to change Europe first have to change themselves. And that is why, from 1 July, when Italy will take over the Presidency of the semester, eleven years after the last time, we will have to be able to put in place not only constitutional, institutional and electoral reforms, but also to attack the issues of a reform of public administration that can no longer be postponed, of a change of the tax system consistent with the indication that Parliament gave with the approval of the draft law delegation, and with a system of justice that is able to respond to the needs of a different country. It is not the fault of a European Commissioner if we are told that we are at the bottom of the rankings for civil justice; it is not the fault of a European Commissioner, it is our responsibility not to have been able in these years to change the rules of the game. So I say this with the greatest respect that we owe first and foremost to those who express an anti-European or anti-European sentiment: we do not call Europe by the name of our fears, do not give Europe the responsibilities that we have; it is not the fault of Europe if we have not been able to reform these years. We, who are able to make the reforms (because we are able to do them), will be able, on the contrary, to give a new sap, so that the Europe that we have known today will return to respect, of course, all the parameters, but above all its first constraint, which is not that budgetary or economic accounting. The first bond that Europe has is that of respect for the founding fathers, who wanted it as a place of peace building, who wanted it as the greatest political bet of the post-war period and who wanted it as a place where politics with capital P returns to give hope, confidence. Here is the central point: the central point of the debate tomorrow and the day after tomorrow is not the document on the relationship between climate, energy and competitiveness; if you want to talk about it in detail, and in talking about it will certainly be interesting to understand what will be the indications that will come from the Senate of the Republic, for the appointment of tomorrow, sure, but let me imagine a parable: for the European semester that we will lead, for the United Nations appointment of September 2014, in which we will also go to represent the European institutions, and of course, for what concerns us, for the fundamental appointment of Paris of 2015 on the climate, that we will ideally connect with the EXPO of Milan. But that is not the point of discussion tomorrow, it is not the single issue. It is not even the issue of respecting the 3% constraints, a limit which we - let us be clear again - do not intend to go beyond. And we are aware that other countries are amply exceeding this limit, starting from countries of great importance, significance and importance, such as France, which is at over 4%. I am saying this because it is clear that the 3% issue goes back naturally to Maastricht and the complicated construction of Europe, but it is also a subject on which we have a lot of papers in place. And there is no constraint that we are not observing, aware that we have an extraordinarily important ballast: that of a public debt and a debt-to-GDP ratio particularly unbalanced and that today sees Italy, paradoxically, have done well a whole series of initiatives and interventions that have led this country to have for years (with the exception of 2009) a positive primary surplus. We are a country that has had a primary surplus in recent years, and that has therefore started a recovery path. But why does the debt-to-GDP ratio continue to grow? Meanwhile, because we are a country that has seen in the last two years the less sign in front of growth. And how! Dramatic, I mean. Moreover, because we have helped and contributed, as authentic European citizens as we are, to the implementation of the state-saving funds and the intervention funds for European solidarity, to the point that today Italy (it was also in the past, indeed) continues to be one of the main contributors to the Union. Then you have to pose the problem of how you spend the money you have. On this, I believe that a confrontation, out of all forms of political correctness, with the subjects who have the duty to spend well the money that our country has, starting from the various European funds (cohesion funds). In fact, it is unacceptable that documents such as those we have received from the Commission and the European institutions should come to us with a profound criticism of the way in which we have managed these money, particularly in view of the devastating conditions in which our Mezzogiorno is located, which is the first recipient of these interventions, or which should be. Well, in this scenario, the point is not to respect the constraints (which we respect): the point is to verify that there is a total lack of an idea of growth, which is one of the topics for discussion tomorrow and which leads the European Union to have to think more deeply than what we have done so far about the problems that the globalised world poses to each of us, but also about the diversity of speed not between Italy and other European partners (which also constitutes an element of reflection and criticism), but between Europe and the rest of the world. I believe that Europe's lack of growth - as I recalled in the House this morning - depends, of course, on a global rebalancing which is in everyone's eyes; but I believe that there is a further reflection on Italy in this respect. I remembered a cover of the Economist in which the boot was seen as a kind of foot or leg with a hanger and written: The real sick person in Europe. But that was long before the financial crisis. It was not the financial crisis that created the Italian problems; in case they were accentuated and exasperated, but the lack of growth that Italy is serving is a structural problem, which the Commission has repeatedly recalled with its recommendations. So I come quickly to the question: what are we going to say tomorrow in Europe with the consent of the Senate and after the debate that the Senate will have? First theme: Italy wants to get to the meeting of the semester having carried out those reforms that we have been talking about for years. This is where we'll look like our nobility. And here we will play the credibility of the institutions, starting with the Government, of course, to continue with Parliament and all the social players involved, affirming the principle that compliance with the rules of the game in Europe does not derive from the imposition of others, but from a conscious political choice and that we will be able to change the rules of the European game, starting from a different approach of economic policies, only if we can demonstrate that we have done things not to convince the Heads of State of other countries, but to recover the credibility of our fellow citizens. Let us not tidy up the accounts because the Head of State of a friendly country asks us, but out of respect for the children, because it is not acceptable for the public debt to be thrown on the shoulders of those who come after us. This process of reform is underway, and I am particularly pleased that some of these reforms are shared by a larger majority than the government supports. I assure you, however, that the majority that supports the government is determined to respect the agenda that we gave ourselves when we asked for trust. The second issue concerns the fact that, since Italy and Europe are not two counterparts, but are on the same boat, we think we must help Europe to change itself, and the Europe that changes itself can only start from a finding. I do not believe that the problem is simply the election of the President of the Commission, but the need to avoid a bureaucratic and technocratic drift that has led to the Europe of the 28 people losing opportunities. This attitude must, however, be seen, on our part, as a decisive change of mindset and approach. We cannot go to European debates and ask ourselves what Europe has to say to us: we have to go into the logic of saying what we are asking of Europe, starting with economic policies that have shown their limits over the years. Allow me then to spend a minute to say that the measures that the Government has begun to implement and which has brought to the attention of Parliament (measures that will see further implementation in the coming weeks) do not correspond - as someone has written - to the desire to arrive at the elections on 25 May. We do not need to campaign: we have a different problem. We have a problem where youth unemployment is now over 42%. We have a problem where the lack of growth and competitiveness sometimes comes from our snares and snares. We have a problem where North-East companies, which compete with Austrian companies or German companies, have an energy cost that is 25 to 30% higher. If this is the first package of reforms that we have presented to Parliament, it starts with a judgment. First of all, the 10 billion euros of cutting the tax wedge, put in the availability of 10 million Italians who earn less than 1,500 euros net per month, can also be judged a teleshopping operation - on this we are very secular - but they are an operation that aims to return, to those who have suffered the crisis on their skin, a minimum right to return to breath. I understand that for some the 80 euros are little more than a "chip". But when you're a teacher, those 80 euros make a difference to you; when you're a family father and you see the cost of utilities growing, those 80 euros make a difference to you. We do not realize that putting 80 euros at the disposal of those who are most in difficulty means having as their goal the revival of consumption on the internal market, in a framework where Italian exports continue to go well. Italy continues to be the second country to be manufacturing at European level, and we continue to have extraordinary companies that make incredible performances. However, we have a situation within our country for which the middle class - because we are talking not only about the less well-off classes, but about what until a few years ago we would have quietly defined middle class - cannot be the subject that pays for the crisis and cannot be the subject that identifies, complicit in a demagogic and irresponsible campaign, Europe as the cause of this crisis. Secondly, we have proposed that the taxation of financial transactions and, from the bottom up, the cost of labour should be rebalanced towards the average. The IRAP operation is precisely this, while the double-digit cut (as we had called it in the vote of confidence), of 10 billion euros, of the tax wedge is financed through a revision of the expenditure, on which I can spend half a word: it is quite clear that the choices make it policy. The technical analysis is correct and understandable, but then the choices are for those who have the responsibility for politics. I say this because I do not think that we can deal with such a sensitive issue as the revision of the expenditure by turning slides without giving a criterion. It is as if a family were at the end of the month unable to make it and left it to the accountant to decide whether to go to music school or to save on spending the fourth week. The political choice obviously depends on the government and Parliament, but the process of reviewing expenditure, the process of structural and irreversible revenue that we imagine to present in the next DEF to the attention of Parliament, goes to finance the cutting of the wedge, while the IRAP operation balances with the operation on financial transactions. Finally, there is a structural change in the energy system of small and medium-sized enterprises. If you are a big energy company, you have discounts; if you are a small and medium-sized company (the bill is worth about 14 billion euros) you have a cost that is higher than between 25 and 30 percent. The rebalancing also of the structuring, starting from subsidies, of the electric bill is a part of the reasoning, but it is not decisive and decisive. We do not think we have the magic wand, but it is the sign of a change, first of all of perspective, which also imposes on the European debate the need to get out of a logic for which we save ourselves with a rigorous interpretation of austerity: we save ourselves if we resume to grow. If we continue to do as we have done in these years, in which, despite the primary surplus, the debt-to-GDP ratio has grown from 120 to 132 percent, why has the denominator failed because of the lack of growth, where do we think we are going? What country do we think we are building, if we continue to intervene through the sacrifices that are made (primary surplus), without seeing growth at the same time, even reaching the point where in seven years we have doubled the percentage of unemployed? We doubled it! Of course, there is a third element that cannot be considered one more that we can detach because it scares us more: it is the theme of policies and regulatory choices at work. It is one of the constant recommendations that come to us from Europe. I believe that we need a double commitment and a double reliance on this in Parliament. It is not conceivable to think of creating work through a decree, because it has never happened this way. You create work because there is an entrepreneur who has the courage to risk or a former worker who puts himself or a person who decides to risk, a small craftsman: you start from the taste of risk. Moreover, we are a country in which, having taxed much more work than financial incomes, it certainly cannot be argued that the entrepreneur who decides to invest in work does it simply for a profit requirement: if it was based only on profit, it would be appropriate for him to devote himself to mere financial activities, if one had to look at the level of taxation. There is therefore a taste of the enterprise that is typical especially of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Italy: they are people we want to represent more than we have done to date. They are people who have the courage to put themselves at risk; they are people who deserve our esteem, our respect, our gratitude. It is not a decree-law that creates work, and at the same time we cannot think that it is a rule of law that saves us from precariousness. It is not the law that creates precariousness: the law must have the ability to change the rules of the game, and perhaps we must also ask ourselves questions. That is why we have intervened with a decree-law on apprenticeship and on the term contract. The reason is very simple: in 2009 people entering the world of work through apprenticeships amounted to 13%. We have said that we would have taken action to improve this instrument in order to make it more and more the door of access to work; in these four years, however, we have passed, not in absolute terms (in the presence of a collapse this is natural) but in percentages, from 13 to 9.5%. This means that something does not work in the claim to regulate everything by ensuring the fight against precariousness and that we therefore need to take a step forward in this direction too. But in order to do so we have not resorted (apart from these two exceptions) to the instrument of the decree-law: we have chosen the instrument of the draft law delegation, in order to allow Parliament - asking for certain times - to discuss, to deepen, to give - as happened with the tax delegation - a great mandate to the Government. In order to do this, we must say that words such as minimum wage or universal allowance must be included in our agenda, not because we need to give the paper to President Barroso, but because we need to look at the new generations and tell them that perhaps in Italy they can find a job. [[Applause from the PD, NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Di Biagio]] Those who leave Italy are not necessarily a brain on the run: sometimes it is simply a desperate heart that can no longer. Therefore, either Parliament addresses these issues now or the July meeting on youth unemployment wanted by President Letta, the third after those in Berlin and Paris, will simply become a catwalk, a conference. We must get to that appointment having already set the work of the bill delegation and having demonstrated that Italy can do its part. As usual, I've stretched out, and I apologize. The central point of tomorrow's debate is, therefore, the relationship between European competitiveness and internal accounts. I would like to point out that it was particularly important for us to organize some moments of study with some of our partner countries, starting naturally from Germany and France. We shared, in particular with President Hollande, the desire to write together the documents which will be submitted to the Commission in April. This is an important issue, not least because the Commission needs to be informed in some way. However, there is a need for countries, especially the larger ones such as Italy, to be able to direct for the coming years a development perspective for the new Commission that will be established in the second half of 2014, just when we will be responsible for the leadership of the institutions. What I believe, however, is important to point out, beyond the success or not of the summits in Paris before and in Berlin, is that we are presenting ourselves to the European debate aware of what we represent, namely that Italy is a country, of course, with a thousand limits and difficulties but that, if it does what it has to do, it can aspire to lead Europe not for the next six months, but for the next 20 years. I am deeply convinced of this because I see the quality of the Italian economy, of the Italian enterprise, of the Italians' ability to be themselves. It's not autogenic training! It is not to repeat things in the hope that they will come true. That is a fact. This is Italy. And when we present ourselves in Europe, we do not present ourselves to the institutions that we all represent with our hats in our hands, as someone has said in an offensive way; we do not go to beg from others: let us propose, first of all to ourselves, to change to be able to change Europe. This rapid communication of mine would not be complete if I did not mention the fact that, on tomorrow's evening, the European Council will discuss - as is logical, natural and necessary - the Ukrainian affair. Our position is that which you have seen these days and which the Government has presented in the debate, in the Commission and also in this House. This is a position which, when we strongly condemn a referendum which we consider unlawful from the point of view of international and domestic law - I mean internal law of Ukraine - is at the same time available, as has already happened on Monday, to stand by the shared decision of some measures to be taken towards some Russian citizens and the so-called sanctions of first and second degree, about which you have already had occasion to speak at the hearing of Minister Mogherini. I believe, however, that there is also a need to maintain a strong stake in our foreign policy, which is that of sharing, first and foremost at European level and with the European countries belonging to the G8. It was very strong, in fact, the link we had with France and Germany, and also with the United Kingdom, in this passage, as well as of course with the United States of America and President Obama. We need to ensure that the OSCE can be the reference point for an initiative that seeks to keep a dialogue channel open and to ensure that sanctions are gradual and reversible. At the same time, we must also say with great determination and determination that the same commitment that the common foreign policy is trying to put into dealing with the emergency and the crisis is a commitment that we, as countries of the European Union, use not only when an emergency arises, but in general as a modus operandi and modus agendi of our policy. I say this because the decision announced here in the Senate to make the first trip and the first official visit to the Mediterranean, in particular to Tunisia, is not an attempt to fill the pages of the newspapers, but a structural choice. Going to Tunisia from the Mediterranean means that we think that this cannot be considered every time a border or a place to be afraid of, to the point of imagining that locking ourselves in helps us to be safer, and that the Mediterranean simply means landings and immigration. I would point out, moreover, that this night our Forces have saved 2,077 lives in the framework of the patrol operations of the operation "Mare Nostrum." [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Mixed-SEL groups.]] I believe that the whole of Parliament can pay tribute to the work of Italian women and men who prevented incidents such as those tragically known as Lampedusa's events (in fact, they did not just occur there). There is, however, more than just patrolling: there is the idea that politics towards the Mediterranean area is a qualifying part of Italian and European politics. There is the idea that the Mediterranean must be addressed as the place where to return to the Mare Nostrum means first of all to return to the values that make us part of a great shared history. That is why in Tunis, alongside institutional meetings, I asked to meet - thanks to the embassy I had the opportunity to do so - five young women, five bloggers, five expressions of Tunisian civil society. We are also discussing gender equality in this House, and I am very happy to represent a government which, for the first time in republican history, is equal in its composition. Let me say, however, that, some ten kilometers from here, in Tunis, which is further north of national borders, and I think of Lampedusa, we have seen the birth of that phenomenon of Arab spring that we have considered a moment of great opportunity and opportunity for politics and for African and North African women. We have seen that it has not always gone well and, if there is a Constitution and a process in Tunisia today that we have felt to encourage, in other areas of the North-Saharan area, but also sub-Saharan, there is a big, huge problem of rights and, more generally, there is a huge, huge problem of politics. Well, in the face of this priority, Europe cannot show up every other day. That is why it is very important that in our European semester, alongside the initiatives on competitiveness, climate, energy, digitisation, the relationship between the digital agenda and public administration reform, alongside the interventions we will make at the Summits with Asian countries (as in the Greek Presidency we will have the appointment with African countries, so the appointment that President Letta had rightly identified in the city of Milan in preparation for the EXPO will be the one with the Asian Heads of State in October), alongside a great deal of attention to the renewal of international institutions, there is one more point that, for me, is fundamental: it is the idea that the Mediterranean will return to be the subject of political attention. That is exactly what I shall end with. Italy wants to make the semester the time of change possible. But Italy above all wants to make Europe the place of a political bet. Today, anti-politics is in fashion. It seems convenient, and it is very simple to say that Europe is taking away everything we had. Just do the math: those who earned two million lire in 2001, today with a thousand euros live in a different social state. It is enough to do two and two to realise that this phenomenon is blamed on the euro and on Europe. It is very difficult to explain that we do not simply want more Europe and that we want another Europe, without leaving to others the ownership of this concept: I remind SEL senators that François Hollande had coined the formula before other political forces coined it (I say it naturally with a smile). But the central point is that this other Europe that we imagine will only succeed if we return to betting on politics. My intervention, then, closes with what I do not want to call a hymn of love for politics (it would be excessive), but certainly with a conviction: today we are called to answer for sure the bonds that the country has signed, but also for a greater bond that we have with our conscience, that we have with the mirror in the morning every day, that is to succeed in ensuring that our work is really useful. The path we are proposing today is obstacles, but it is very clear: reforms, because they are needed; change in public administration, because we owe it to the citizens; change in the internal rules of the game, and not because a European Commissioner asks for it. We do not need a European Commissioner to know that civil justice is bad: it is enough to hear any entrepreneur or any citizen going to court. [[Comments by Senators Caliendo and Rizzotti.]] However, we need senators and MPs to deal with these issues and a government that is not afraid to risk playing the whole game. We are aware that if Parliament and the Government change Italy in the coming months, we can change Europe together at that point. [[Applause from the PD, NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u6	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1, by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta, No 2, by Senator Calderoli, No 3, by Senator De Petris and others, and No 4 by Senator Bitonci and others, whose text is being distributed. Any other motions for resolutions should be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u7	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would first like to point out that Forza Italia is a party that believes in Europe. I would like to add to what you said that for many years, fortunately, there has been no war on a global level and that the European Union has resulted in the fact that since 1945 Europe has no longer been the creator of wars as it had been during previous history. This is the great merit of Europe to which we must always be faithful. We must also bear in mind that the euro has certainly created problems, but assuming that we are leaving the euro means being out of reality or not realizing that, in order to solve a problem of a certain size, it would immediately create a four or five times larger problem. There are problems. For example, we cannot forget that, after the 2008 crisis, which was a dramatic financial crisis, the European Investment Bank fought inflation in particular until 2011, despite the fact that since 2009 the whole of Europe has been, and not only because of the financial crisis, but also because of international competition, in a situation of almost deflation, which in many cases is still present. Not all European countries have behaved in the same way these years. For example, in the early 2000s (2001-2002), France and Germany asked Europe to derogate from the Stability Pact and exceed the 3% limit because they had development projects. Germany has made it, it has maintained its plans; France has not made it, and we know that it is still in a situation of crisis - as you said - quite serious. We are starting an Italian semester that will be very important, even if in reality it will be more a quarter than a semester, because all the mechanisms that will trigger after the next elections on May 25 will ensure that our semester actually starts only in September. It is necessary, Mr President, for Italy to use this period to improve its present situation. I believe that Italy needs to have a more able state to decide, a State that invests and plans its future more, a State that manages less and that does not cost in an abnormal way as now, and finally less taxes for citizens and businesses. It is important that, in the new semester or quarter in which Italy will chair the European Union, we broaden the concept of Europe. For example, it is necessary for Europe to deal with greater fiscal uniformity, which is a very important issue, because it is difficult to have the same currency and a tax system completely different from one country to another. It is important the concept that the Government is starting for the spending review: it is useful that, in the State that manages less, there are fewer people (we are very interested in the news that we learn these days); as well as it is important to carry out a revision of the spaces that the State has at central level, of Regions, Provinces and Municipalities. We cannot forget that, in the last thirty years, while all private enterprises, thanks to new organizational systems and technologies that attended, have diminished the support to the activity (those that are called back offices in English), instead the State at the central and peripheral level, despite the institutional tasks are the same, has expanded its spaces and the number of people who work there. As far as institutional reforms are concerned, they are certainly important not only because of the desire to change things, but because it is essential that the elections ensure that there is a majority that then has the opportunity to make the institutions work. Forza Italia intends to respect the agreement between you and President Berlusconi on electoral law, on the complete diversification of the Senate... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have heard of the Senate reform bill presented by the Government. Well, Mr President-in-Office, if this is a change to the State-Regions Conference, this structure is too expensive. You have to work on this. Just as the amendment of the Provinces must respect the Constitution, it must be balanced, not take advantage of a political part too much to the detriment of others. We are waiting for the measures you have spoken to us about. As soon as the decree-laws arrive, we will examine them as a force of opposition that wishes to cooperate in improving the texts that come to us from the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u8	I address a greeting to the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico commerciale and for geometries.Giuseppe Marchetti of Gemona del Friuli, in the province of Udine, who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u9	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at the next European Council we arrive a few days after your meetings with President Hollande and Chancellor Merkel, during which you set out the guidelines of the Italian Government's reform programme. It is a program that engages and gives a lot of responsibility to the parliamentary groups of the majority, starting with the Democratic Party Group, to live up to the challenge that you have launched us: a positive challenge that we gather with conviction and that we make our own to help change this country. The European Council of 20 and 21 March will conclude the first phase of the semester by assessing progress made in implementing the country-specific recommendations of 2013 and by providing guidance to Member States on their stability and convergence programmes. In this context, it would be necessary for the conclusions of the European Council to reaffirm that too high a trade surplus, as noted in some Member States, must be offset by measures to stimulate domestic demand at European level. For Italy the exit from the deficit procedure is one of the most visible results of 2013, as well as the decrease of the spread under 200 points shows how the country's efforts have been important and recognized. Now that the public accounts have better margins, it is important to put the problem of growth and employment firmly in the face of the forthcoming European elections and the danger of anti-European formations going against the united Europe. Italian competitiveness is today limited by many factors. The government programme has focused attention on reducing the tax wedge, which is a very important point in determining the exit from the recession and overcoming the risk of zero growth. To this, among other things, I would like to add a radical improvement in the use of the European Structural Funds for the next seven years, which I believe is just as decisive a factor in determining growth. In this context, a strong and competitive European industrial base is the driving force behind economic growth and employment. It is therefore important that strong measures to stimulate economic recovery be immediately determined in the European Council, through investments in high potential sectors such as infrastructure, green economy, and strategic industrial sectors such as research and innovation, and in particular for our country, in manufacturing and small and medium-sized enterprises. The link between the European Council and the Italian Presidency is very close. I believe that in this Council it is important to put the strategic perspective of supporting in all European fora, in this 2014 policies that stimulate competitiveness, support job creation and fight - as you rightly mentioned - unemployment, starting with youth. In this respect, in addition to the investments we have already mentioned, specific credit lines at the European Investment Bank are important in order to promote the competitiveness of European companies through these instruments as well. Then, as the European Council's agenda rightly says, it is important to continue contacts with key international partners, the adoption of the climate-energy package, the European Union's energy policies, in the first place by pursuing the completion of the internal energy market. I would like to focus on three points which I consider essential for the Italian semester. The first is a renewed and joint debate between the European institutions and the Member States on a new phase of European integration, aimed at achieving a political union in the federal sense (the dream of Spinelli, as you have said many times). The second point is the acceleration of the roadmap for a genuine economic and monetary union, with reference to mechanisms for the mutualisation of the sovereign debt of the euro area countries, and the joint issuance of securities to finance large projects able to permanently relaunch the European economy. The third is to support the extension of the golden rule, so as to allow the breakdown of certain items of investment expenditure that can have a short-term positive impact on territorial growth and reduce unemployment. In this respect, this will also enable the internal stability pact to be exceeded for local authorities' capital expenditure, which I believe should become another priority in the Italian Government's programme. Mr President, I agree with you that Europe cannot be just currency, rigour, rules and parameters. It must increasingly be a community founded on the values of civil coexistence and hospitality, and you have done well to choose Tunis as the first place of the official journey and to place the Mediterranean at the heart of our country's policies. This is an attention and sensitivity which we need in our territory and which we want to extend to Europe. The massive landings of these last hours, which you mentioned, require all of us to ensure that Europe takes overall responsibility for the human and social tragedy that reaches our coasts, becoming a problem of Italy, of the countries, of the local communities in the front line, but also of the whole of Europe, because also in this way we build the Europe of peoples and solidarity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u11	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u12	Mr President, I have the agenda for the European Council to which you will be present. I don't know if he actually read it because, if it was a class assignment, maybe he'd take a vote of four and a half. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It came out partially out of theme, considering that it has practically neglected in its communications to talk about climate and energy and connections between climate, energy and industrial system. Energy is an integral part of the historical phase that we are experiencing. On a millennial scale, the use of fossil sources represents a unicum that cannot be replicated. Fossil sources have ensured an indiscriminate increase in the population and the disconnecting of manual labor from production, with the use of those whom Ivan Illich in 1974 called the energy slaves. What was the price of all this? Simply raising the levels of climate-altering gases, of which the C02 is the best known, in the atmosphere. How much weight can this molecule have in the world view and in the development of society? The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reminds us that carbon dioxide has reached the highest value in the last twenty million years and is expected to grow from 30 to 340 percent in 2100 compared to 2000, and that the average temperature could increase by a value ranging from 4 to 6 degrees. In terms of production per capita of C02, the disparity is very strong: the United States emits 17 tonnes per inhabitant, the European Union 6.75, the whole of Africa 0.93 and Afghanistan 0.03, i.e. 500 times less than the United States. You see, Mr. Renzi, dealing with energy problems is an act of love that we must do with ourselves and our children, so we cannot understand how we can still think of endorsing a perverse mechanism such as capacity payment. In 2003 with the Marzano decree (the famous central release) you had more than 25 gigawatts of combined-cycle power plants built, but you did not shut down the old inefficient power plants. Today we have 125 gigawatts of installed power and 54 gigawatts of demand on the network. Renewables have increased greatly and fossil-source power plants suffer. What are you doing with the capacity payment? Nothing but favors large fossil energy producers, with an estimated value of €2 billion per year in 2017. Why not tackle the problem through the full use and enhancement of the storage and storage systems of electricity? Perhaps because this would not favor the appetites of the great fossil producers? Is that a logical choice? How much do the 100 million euros that would come into the pockets of Sorgenia (you know, that of Mr. De Benedetti) weigh on your reflections? Think about it, ma'am. Think about it. And what about CCS, which is the C02 capture and storage system? It is good for you to know that the CCS Directive, namely 2009/31/EU, was totally managed by the United Kingdom. In fact, the Commission appointed Mr Stocker (English), the rapporteur in the European Parliament was Mr Davies (English), and strangely the parliamentary assistant of Davies was placed, just before the directive arrived at the environment area, as it happens, precisely in the environment area of the European Council. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, please conclude. CIOFFI (M5S). I'll do it quickly. Will it not be that the United Kingdom had and has an interest in using the North Sea oil wells for the storage of C02? What if we remember that the C02 stock exchange was in London and that the cap-and-trade mechanism only favoured emissions trading? Let us also remember that this mechanism did not guarantee the effectiveness it wanted to achieve, because the economic crisis produced false bonds of credit (traders were called hot air sellers) because they were not linked to greater efficiency in the production system, but only to a reduction in the amount of emissions for a lower production. You see, Mr. Renzi, I hope you have someone to explain these things to you so that you don't act like those traders and you don't become a hot air salesman. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u14	Mr Renzi, I listened to you very carefully and frankly a feeling of disappointment has pervaded me, as I think it has pervaded a large part of this House, because I noted in your speech, which is brilliant though, a resounding gap: there is little Mezzogiorno in your speech, or perhaps in your intentions, or perhaps in your objectives. This is regrettable, although illustrious southerners have always, over the decades, pointed out that the development delays of the Mezzogiorno are the development delays of the whole Nation. Therefore, this would be appropriate, even in view of what you said in the programmatic declarations, when, unfortunately, you again highlighted the lack of will to face with judgment, but also with courage, the secular problems that still today are the real problem of Italy. Sturzo, Fortunato, Companione, everyone has obviously highlighted how strategic and fundamental the Mezzogiorno is both in development policies and in policies of rebalancing, not only within the country, but also of rebalancing within the European nations: the North and the South. In the same way, I think it is important to understand that through greater attention, which comes from the provision of strategic infrastructure, infrastructure networks but also technology; the Mezzogiorno is placed in a position to resolve the issue of Apennine backs, which heavily affect it,. I believe that this Government could once again, both in Italy and in Brussels, say a word of comfort to our people. As far as school is concerned - I have listened to your programmatic statements - this is a cultivated field that needs to be treated continuously. Well, I don't think it all comes down to the provision of new schools, new walls, walls that are also safe for those who attend schools. We need to reset the school in general systemic terms so that the new teaching is supported by that extraordinary phenomenon represented by the new technologies of communication, which lighten, even in physical terms, the weight of learning and facilitate the development of education. Let's get to the covers, ma'am. We have been talking these days, after his programmatic statements, about what is a vague sense that attacks Parliament as well as the whole country: how will President Renzi and his Government find cover for the ambitious programmes that have also been set out here? Well, Mr President, don't press the tax and tax button so that even in spending review policies you know that there are men and women, whole families, human capital, who would also suffer from indiscriminate spending cuts. Let me also, Mr President, remind you of research and talents: promote policies for the valorisation of promising young people, of students who have shown that they believe in the future of Italy by studying, Applying. Cultural heritage and tourism are our oil, President; our oil fields are made up of 60% of the cultural deposits that we have here in Italy and they are all sustainable: valorization, protection and protection are all elements that bring income and of course employment. Industry and SMEs, networks and internationalisation, access to credit, the difficulties of our industries and companies... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u15	Please finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u16	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Therefore, Mr President, in feeling dissatisfied, let us say that we are not Eurosceptics, we are probably Renzi-sceptics. But let us not close the door to hope, which is why I would like to conclude with an invitation to remember, when it is in Europe, the words of a southernist poet, my Mediterranean, that is, Apulian, Vittorio Bodini: the Mediterranean will be your father and Europe will be your mother. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must look at Europe with a vision of perspective, partnership and common development. Europe cannot be an alibi for us to face uncomfortable passages or impose unpopular policies, it cannot be an excuse, but it must be an incentive to do well; it cannot be the realm of the technocrats, but it must return to being the agora of the best policy. The reform package that you, Mr President, have discussed with President Hollande and Chancellor Merkel over the past few days, the one that will lead to the European Council tomorrow, completely changes the perspective with which we have lived for so many years the relationship with Europe. We have seen in these days a strong and realistic intercourse, a interlocution that has described a path: the decisive path undertaken by our country. We want to be an Italy that tells stability, seriousness and concreteness, which does not ask for derogations but helps to propose and draw the common lines of programming and development of this Europe; an Italy capable of rigorously addressing its internal challenges for fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, with a reorganization of various sectors and the spending review on public expenditure, of course, but also a country that wants to return to investing on development and well-being, collective well-being, that welfare so important. A revival that in strategies and sharing at European level can certainly lay more solid foundations. This is the perspective and the government programme that you have proposed to us and which we have shared: reforms, reforms and reforms, from institutional and constitutional ones, and then to face the reform of justice (you have also talked about it today), labour market reform and public administration reform. Let us start with institutional and constitutional reforms because it is essential to have Italy with the characteristics of stability and a more streamlined and efficient administration (it has also reminded us today, President). The electoral law, the reform of bicameralism and Title V of the Constitution are very important. We cannot go and talk about work or Euroburocracy when we ourselves are champions of inefficiency, with an institutional system that is certainly not as slim and effective as we would like, a system that causes that bureaucratic opacity that leads to corruption, stalemate and mistrust widespread in the state. We propose a package of reforms not because Europe asks us (you tell us this continuously, and I very much agree with that), but because they really serve our country, all of us, and they allow us to finally be credible and reliable as partners. This is the Italy that serves Europe and this is the Europe that Italy is looking at to eradicate those toxins of anti-politics, which we often hear in these classrooms too, and of that Euroscepticism that plays on the crisis and visceral malaise that this generates to blow on easy forms of populism; toxins that risk to undermine the only possible future, which is precisely our future in Europe. In Europe, right there, we want to be partners, not suffer decisions from others because we are not able to change and cope with the challenges that arise. We owe it to our children, to young people, to our women, to all our citizens. We therefore want to be partners in Europe. The crisis, however, has imposed strict policies on us, the policies that we must pursue. Italy has dealt with them decisively both in terms of debt reduction and fiscal consolidation. Hard moments, difficult moments: we saw despair, we saw the defeats and also so much pain. Now is the time to look also at recovery and development with policies that identify the areas of investment and the reduction of taxes, to restore oxygen also to the internal market. Well the reduction of the tax wedge, well the reform of the job. We have clearly said that we will respect the threshold of 3% (he told us this again today) and we will find the resources for relaunching, starting from that spending review, exactly the spending review that sometimes is so scary; a positive concept the spending review, the revision of the expense. And it is an expense that we must review not through linear cuts, but through a new way of managing the resources of public administration, a different model, a different method: cuts in waste, of course, the courage not to do as has always been done, a modern and efficient approach. That's what it takes. Some local authorities are already doing so, others have decided. The state must start a colossal work (I call it that), which is therefore one of the most difficult work that this Government is waiting for and which is waiting for us in Parliament; but it will be the decisive action, the action that will make the difference. Europe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is the Europe we care about, the Europe we want to be in, our context, our framework, the place where we need to feel at home. Very often, however, this Europe is considered a cost. Compared to many other countries we are unable to make the best use of European funds, we are unable to participate in European projects and to acquire essential resources for our development, we are not able to win. We lose on the way contributions that could be essential to relaunching entrepreneurship or structural interventions, because we have not developed sufficient and adequate skills and because we are not well aware of the opportunities that the Union offers us. It is on these policies that we must be competitive and competent. The other major challenge, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is human capital, training, scientific research, school, the Horizon 2020 and Erasmus programmes, vocational training problems (here is your Minister for Education, who will certainly be very committed to this). We need to invest in schools, universities and research, to train our young people, to enhance their skills, to stimulate innovation and new ideas. This is the capital that can give new life to our entrepreneurship and economic recovery, not only Italian but European. Investing in education and training means investing in the future of our children, giving them the tools to face the challenges of so-called globalisation and to give a solid foundation to the revival of Italy in the European and global context. The key words for our cultural heritage are investment, especially in culture, environment and tourism. This is the other important aspect that interests us. Once again we are talking about training and new professions in the field of culture, the environment and tourism; so once again we are recognizing and recognizing Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Di Giorgi. DI GIORGI (PD). I'm finishing up, Mr. President. To enter the soul of our country, to choose the development that is possible to support with our resources, but taking into account our characteristics, those peculiarities that make us unique and that give us identity, but that make us a part of that whole in which we believe and that we want to see assert ourselves that it is precisely called Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tremonti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u20	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this speech was inspired by the intervention of the President of the Council, in particular by the references to the Mediterranean and the link between the Mediterranean and European civilisation. The most important writing on these themes is Albert Camus's old writing on "The Future of European Civilization" (Athens 1955). In the debate, two are the domains on which European civilization is built: that of values and that of progress. The domination of values is still strong and solid, while the domination of progress enters a critical phase in some way, also because it has identified itself, rather than technical-scientific progress, with the economic one. I would like to make it quite clear, as clear as possible, that this is a fundamental historical point. History has made one of its sudden hairpin bends, a solution of continuity. To be clear: the colonial age is over for Europe. Even after the formal end of the colonies, the regime of the colonies was strong for Europe: the great turning point is in the fact that that age is over. Europe is 5% of the population, 25% of production and 50% of welfare expenditure. Everything has somehow worked until the crisis: the crisis has marked a solution of continuity. I'm old enough to remember the G7 and new enough to see the G20. The G7 was a political body that unified 700 million people with an economic code (the dollar), a language code (English) and a political code (Western democracy). The G20 is a totally different thing. The protection scheme for Europe is over (not for the United States, but certainly for Europe). The G20 is a completely different thing, I repeat: some billion people; the relationship that went from the periphery to the center is over; the geopolitical relationship is circular; there is no longer a single economic code; there are other currencies; as for the language code, others speak their languages; as for the political code, there are other political systems other than Western democracy. For Europe, this - in some way I have seen it for many years - has posed fundamental structural issues. The discussion was expressed in the sense of "seriousness" above, but solidarity below. "Seriety above" meant the European agenda, common budget schemes, European semester, but "under" the eurobonds and everything that could mean solidarity. Therefore, not seriousness without solidarity; not solidarity without seriousness. I remember that during the last Italian semester of 2003, resuming the old Delors Plan, eurobonds were proposed. Of course, such processes occupy long temporal arcs and incorporate strong contrasts; I believe that this is, however, one of the traces on which Europe will still arrive. I would remind you that it was in that six-month period that France, and especially Germany, was granted a derogation from sanctions under the Italian Presidency. Given that sanctions against Germany are never a particularly intelligent thing, that was the basis on which Germany made its necessary reforms. With European sanctions he would not have done those reforms and would not be in the current condition. When it comes to solidarity, I would point out that the current so-called state-saving funds are actually bank-saving funds and, certainly not for the purpose of signing them, the Italian contribution - the Italian system is exposed to the crisis of private debts for 5% - is 18%, equal to the ratio between Italian GDP and European GDP. This would make sense if the funds had been, as they could have been, the basis for issuing European securities, but, as it is, we are financing the collapse of German and French banks in the years of the euro euphoria. This is a point that perhaps should be remembered, but it is a detail; then we will talk about Italy, but I did not want to talk about Italy. Speaking of finance, Mr President, I have heard you talk about increasing the rate on financial transactions, and that excludes increasing the rates on postal and bank deposits, which are certainly not defined as financial transactions. This is a statement that you have made to us and which I consider to be extremely positive. Do not increase taxes on poor people's deposits. Finally, on the way back to Europe: you see, it makes no sense to blame bureaucrats and technicians - or it doesn't have much to blame - because the real fault, if you don't make politics, is of politicians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u22	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I once again appreciated the recognition of the President-in-Office's clarity and the fact that he did not want to evade the problems. He is right, Mr President: what has happened in Crimea and Ukraine is only the last example that tells us what Europe we need: a strong political Europe that counts more in the world chessboard, but above all a Europe of peoples and its peoples, that leads them out of the dry lines of the economic crisis. That is why, Mr President, the wish of all of us self-governmentists is that the coming months, beginning with the Italian Presidency, will serve to give Europe this direction, that new beginning you mentioned, to make the Old Continent, not the space for bans and shirts of strength, but the space for opportunities. Our citizens and our citizens ask us that Europe, Italy and their institutions serve this purpose, giving the opportunity to Made in Italy and all those qualities to which you have mentioned to express all their potential and to be competitive, engaging a hard battle against youth unemployment, which has now reached dramatic percentages, giving breath to the consumption of families, restoring confidence to those who want to invest, giving courage to all those who are afraid. We therefore agree with you when you say that the European issue is not a technical issue but of a political and even moral nature, because today, in order to resume the ban of the skein, we must recover the primacy of politics, ethics, true politics, that of noble ideals and good practices. We welcome what you said in your reply to the House where you said that the 3% constraint is anachronistic, especially if it creates a conflict between citizens and European institutions. As autonomousists we are ready to play our part in all those measures that can make our country more innovative and competitive in tourism, culture, agri-food, energy policies, on the grounds of research and experimentation, which in our opinion represent the strategic areas for the development of the country. In this scenario - allow me, President, to mention you - the project of the Brenner tunnel and the renewal of the motorway concessions that insist on the central corridor for Europe, in order to truly connect Italy to the European countries that today drive economic recovery and to ensure that our Region is enabled to exercise its natural vocation, that of access door and logistic and cultural platform between Italy and the rest of Europe. We call for a policy that puts people's lives at the centre, that is tuned with the fears and expectations of the citizens and citizens of this country and of all its territories. This is why we appreciated the first measures announced by your government, because they go in the right direction, impressing the necessary blow of the kidneys to consumption and the economic system to turn on the engine of the recovery, to challenge all those taboos that seem insuperable, without fear and without hesitation. Since we believe in the primacy of politics, we ask that the logic of linear cuts for the finding of resources be definitively set aside, a logic - this - that in many sectors has ended up depressing excellence and just touching inefficiencies and areas of real and continuous waste. Politics must make choices, this is our responsibility, and I appreciate the fact that, during your speech on trust, you have defined our special autonomy as a model of closeness to the territories, but above all of collective political responsibility. You are right, we must make reforms, but I also say to you that the Government's proposal for institutional reform, along with many positive aspects, must be refined, especially because of the role and competences of this Senate, if we really want it to become a Chamber of Autonomies. He did well to say that we must engage in a decisive battle against bureaucracy, overcoming all those useless and typical practices of the Italian system and all those national norms or imposed by Europe that inges the wings of our productive system that, despite everything, is still alive and wants to get back into play. The country system must be allowed to believe in itself and to recover the courage that has been mortified. Only in this way, she said, will all anti-European sirens and anti-politics that, if they were to assert themselves, risk making Italy and the entire Old Continent weaker, lonelier and more fragile in front of the whole world. It is too convenient to blame Europe for our inefficiencies. Europe - and I take your words again - calls for us to be serious and reliable, to keep our accounts, to respect the rules. And so, Mr President, what we are asking of you is that you bring to Europe the spirit of a country that wants to regain trust in its institutions, a country that still wants to roll up its sleeves, a country that, as Alcide De Gasperi's daughter, Maria Romana, has told me so many times, must bring back to Europe the passion of the beginnings, that passion that has now lost. And it is with this spirit that the Group For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE wishes you good work, and it is in the name of this spirit that we tell you that we self-employed are ready to do our part. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Santini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u23	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for the communications you made to the European Council on 20 and 21 this month, in which you wanted to emphasise some fundamental aspects which are not and cannot only be the subject of tomorrow's meeting, but which are, and certainly must be, interesting for the future of this country. Mr President, I would also like to thank you because you have succeeded where your two last predecessors have failed: to find cover for tens and tens of billions. I hope you've at least made a visit to the General Accounting Office of the State. Mr President, I would also like to thank you because it seems that you have been able to approve the deviation of the deficit-GDP ratio from 2.6 to 3%. We'll ask for light on that. Mr President, we do not thank you this time because we have realized that punctuality is not one of your best qualities, even if your delay will surely be due to the local public transport strike. [[Comments]] We thank you, then, because you did not start today, as you did the first time you came to this House, saying that this would be the last time that as a Senate we would hear the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers, etc., etc. We read this attitude as an opening to the Senate about the issue of its abolition. We would also like to thank you, Mr President, because at a time when it is really difficult to give answers to entrepreneurs, workers, the unemployed and the unemployed, you have given me the solution: when I meet these people, I will shake hands with them and say that I hold them with esteem, respect and gratitude because no decree-law can help them. That's what you said. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for listening carefully to Senator Tremonti. I also hope you've taken note. IT WANTS FROM THE BANKS OF THE PD GROUP. We've already given! COUNCIL (LN-Aut). You, Mr Renzi, have just said here that you do not think you have the magic wand. I think Merkel totally understood the opposite. President Renzi, we are debating artisan enterprises and the manufacturing sector at 10a The Commission has a unified bill on which there is great convergence between all political forces. We shall be testing you on this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we look forward to seeing what you are going to do about this important initiative. Then I ask you, President Renzi, if you needed an interview and a statement from Senator Renzo Piano for life, of which I have the utmost respect... (The President of the Council, Mr Renzi, touched his head.) Do you have a headache, Mr. President-in-Office? Was that statement needed, then, to understand that school construction is a disaster? I don't think so. Furthermore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, after all that has happened with the decree emptying prisons, I hope that you do not have the courage in this House, let alone in Europe, to talk about security. Now we are talking about rationalizing the sector by cutting the number of garrisons, offices, sections of the State Police and the Postal Police: practically all the opposite of what needs to be done in this sector. Industrial policy must also be a subject which must be put at the centre of the Brussels European Council. In your inaugural speech, you spoke of the need to attract new investments, as an opportunity for growth for the country: but how can we be credible, Mr President, if we cannot even make the companies that historically gave employment in this country remain in Italy? We can't even hold back our historical exploits. I would remind myself and you, Mr President-in-Office, that Mrs Merkel had told Monti and Letta the same things she said to you: Good, good, great. Too bad that, as you will have well noticed, probably neither of your two predecessors was good and did well, but above all - I want to remind you - none of them did the encore. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u25	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u26	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for coming here today to tell the Senate what your approach will be at the European Council on 20 and 21 March. I would like to focus on one particular aspect, namely the qualification of European Union, given the fact that in its executive there has been a loss of a figure, that of the Minister for European Affairs, which, modestly, even in view of the Italian Presidency, I considered absolutely essential. I assume that he will also personally take on this heavy task and I do not doubt the success of his work, since he has already collected extensive consensus in Berlin in recent days, where his proposals have been defined as 'great structural changes'. Too bad, however, that these proposals, in concrete terms, I have not been able to understand what they really are: in particular, I have not been able to understand what the method and the instruments through which - to paraphrase an expression recently used in Berlin - you intend to fill the glass half full of the Italian reform process. In this House, we have not yet seen any of this. That is why, as a member of a body which is beginning to be disbanded by its relentless reformist verve, I would like to try to get into the substance of some of the issues relating specifically to industrial competitiveness and the reindustrialisation of Europe, taking inspiration from the main items on the agenda of the European Council in the coming days. Let's start with the cost of energy in industrial production. The 2013 World Energy Outlook shows that the high energy costs in Europe will be reflected in a loss of competitiveness of the European industrial sector, which will lead to a drop in exports of around 30%, with detrimental consequences in terms of employment. If we consider that in Italy this cost of energy is among the highest in Europe, we understand well that our companies will face, in addition to the chronic internal problems, such as excessive bureaucracy, regulatory Byzantineism, unsustainable tax pressure and the collapse of domestic demand, also the competition with overseas companies, such as those of the United States, which, led by the revolution of shale gas, have therefore enormous amounts of energy at low cost. All this must then be harmonised with the indispensable need to reduce CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. What measures does the Government intend to take to deal with this? When's an Energy Act? Then we add the criticalities of the international scene, which are increasing and investing areas to which Italy is particularly linked, as far as energy supply is concerned. The Ukrainian crisis is emblematic, not to mention Egypt, the second African gas producer, whose dramatic political and economic situation, which still seems to have no outlets, will probably prevent him, at least in the short and medium term, from continuing to operate as an energy supplier. I therefore wonder whether the next European Union-Africa Summit, also on tomorrow's agenda, will address itself: if so, how will the issue of energy supply from North Africa be addressed? I would like an answer to that. I would also like to focus on another issue directly related to industrial competitiveness, namely the imbalance between demand and the supply of skills. In this regard, I would like to point out that the number of members of the scientific faculty is in dramatic decline in Italy: the disastrous policies implemented by previous executives towards school, the continuous cuts in research and education - particularly at university, seen as the first expendable subject in the event of cuts in public spending - are the main cause of this imbalance. The figure clearly emerges by analyzing the first dossier of ANVUR on university and research, from which it is evident that most of the differences with other countries would depend mainly on the lack in Italy of an offer of degree courses of a professionalizing character. After maturity the training offer does not allow many alternatives. What action will your Executive take to make a change of course and consider investing in education as one of the main ways out of the crisis? Just the right investment in school construction? It's a little short. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Orellana (Mist). Yes, ma'am. I would like to move on to the development of infrastructure, citing just one example: the serious delay in the broadband deployment process. According to recent studies reported to the Chamber by the Agency for Digital Italy, only 17 of the 55 fulfillments planned have been achieved: the goals of • Europe 2020 • may not be achieved and the delay in the spread of broadband and ultra-wide in Italy is likely to worsen further, as evidenced also by the so-called Report Caio. I will really conclude by quoting another fundamental aspect, that of patenting. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u27	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u28	Orellana (Mist). This is another subject that will be discussed at the forthcoming summit. The European patent, despite the Italian and Spanish opposition, can be presented in only three languages: English, French and German. What does our Executive intend to do in this respect? [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u29	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in thanking you for the enthusiasm and enthusiasm that you put in the introductory terms of the intervention with which you drew the scenario that opens with the European Council of tomorrow, let me make a reflection, which is also linked to the decision that I have taken not to speak in an explanation of vote, because, precisely, it is not in question the support that my Group offers to the advantage of the Italian policy's ability to put tomorrow in Brussels all the strength that it is capable of on the same brick for a change of pace also in the European project. However, perhaps a little more boringly, I would like to return to what will be the agenda for tomorrow's Council. Sometimes, in fact, while remaining the devil's presence in detail, it is worth understanding whether the momentum and enthusiasm have the opportunity to find rest and feedback in a timely action on the merit of the problems that will have to be discussed. The President of the European Council, Mr Van Rompuy, in his letter of invitation to the Heads of State or Government, made it clear that important decisions on the single resolution mechanism and taxation will have to be taken tomorrow, i.e. that structure and further passage to draw up the construction of the banking union, which at this moment reflects the difficulty of the European Union to take decisions quickly and with great operational force. The decision-making procedure is designed in such a way as to make it difficult for European capitals to give power of political influence to the banking sector. The final result is that the complexity of the process renders the obligation - although stated in the text of the agreement - that decisions on bank restructuring and liquidation should be taken in twenty-four hours. As you can see, it is a problem that is little, if you look at it all from the point of view of the principles, but huge, if you do not have the strength, entering the merit, to deploy the power of those principles. After all, our debate on Europe is all there is to it. As long as we continue to believe that Europe is the one that deals with the length of bananas or the diameter of peas, we may not be clear that, by doing these operations, it creates and destroys markets, that is, makes it possible for farmers to be competitive or to hunt them out of the market and prosperity. The need is, therefore, to enter into the substance and, on the part of the Senate, to know tomorrow what our Government's positions will be, on the substance, in support and suffrage of the principles, commendable, which you have stressed, which we share and which we embrace, so that that embrace will support it in the arm's length with the European Union. That is the crucial point. As a Member of the European Parliament, I saw Presidents of the Council and Prime Ministers, such as Blair, entering the Presidency, who fascinated us by talking about investment in human capital and fleeing from that semester, reflecting Britain's haste to take over the last discount on bovine capital, i.e. the quota for British farmers in those years. On the merits, therefore, we ask to know the positions that our Government will have tomorrow, but not to make the arm wrestling with other countries, not to beat the mythical fist on the table of Europe, but to make an Italian vision possible the European competition with the rest of the world. This is in fact our vision: to compete is a Latin word, it comes from cuppetere, that is to look together for the best solution. The Senate, the Italian Parliament as a whole, all the political forces are at your side so that competition in Europe becomes an opportunity to give each of the member countries greater dignity and greater prosperity, and the fact that we enter into the substance not only allows us to defeat the details and defeat the devil that manifests itself in detail, but allows us to take back at the hand and in full the meaning of the proposal of the founding fathers that you rightly mentioned, and that I must say was pleased to the point that the figures quoted by the former Minister Tremonti perhaps deserve further consideration. Yes, it is true: we are those 530 million citizens who make up just 7-8 percent of the world's population, produce 25% of the wealth and consume 50% of the welfare. Perhaps another figure is worth remembering: 75 million of us are under 25 years of age, it is our young people (may seem a lot) who are in the conditions of obvious difficulty that you have well explained. Egypt has 80 million inhabitants, and 60 million are under 25 years of age. In the factors of competitiveness we must also come back to share a vision of man, society, family, that is those factors that will make our bet winning, and for this we need a strong leadership, and this leadership is in his hands. This leadership is what Italy entrusts to you so that the presence of Italy tomorrow at the European Council is not only one of the factors of an arm-wrestle, but that factor that drags that political project that we call Europe and that will make us winners in the world. [[Applause from the SCPI and For Autonomous Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u31	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u32	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it may be that over the past few days, too emphatic, has been the image of some chronicles that have wanted us to see a Mrs Merkel fascinated by the Italian Government's programme. Perhaps fascinated is definitely an improper term, as well as improper are those on the very different attitude that Minister Schäuble would have had: they are gossip not worthy of the best journalism. However, I think it is quite understandable that in Germany and Europe we look with great interest at two aspects of our agenda. The first is what is called "spending review" (in homage to technocrats and economics professors), but - I hope someone will report it to the President of the Council (the President of the Council is currently absent from the benches of the Government) - scalpel on Italian public spending dilated and uncontrolled spoke mainly in the Senate. It is not an idea of technocrats, but it is an idea that has emerged in the Senate itself. Governor Prodi or govern Berlusconi, colleagues like Senator Azzollini or like Senator Morando have been on this inflexible and therefore there is a logic, and I wish him all the best, because President Renzi wanted Senator Morando to the Ministry of Economics. As for the reform of the contract of employment (it is not servility towards my Parent Company), I believe that Maurizio Sacconi (I say it just today that the anniversary of the assassination of Marco Biagi occurs) is a senator who has given political and not technical guarantees of sensitivity and freshness in addressing this liberal topic. So I would leave this argument to him and his explanation of vote. I'd like to go back to the first one. Of course, the revision of expenditure in the large participants of the State has failed to do so for many years. "We turned our thumbs" perhaps said with inelegance, but with property, the President of the Council. There is the RAI galaxy, there are the Railways, the Post Office, the ENAV and above all, today, the public transport companies. Local public transport is, together with health care, one of the greatest factors documenting the failure of that wreathy and uncomfortable regionalism which, colleagues on the left, you wanted with that reform of Title V of the Constitution of 2000 and you wanted it for a petty reason: for retaliation against the colleagues of the League who had chosen the center-right alliance. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]] Eurostat data say that public expenditure on public and private investment in Italy was higher than Germany's for a gross domestic product point with more than disappointing results, in terms of job growth and productivity. We therefore meet with the constitutional policy plan. The reform of Title V is an appointment that we cannot miss. Without wanting to be a center-right patriotism, between 2000 and 2006 led by my colleague Tremonti we approved a good text. As for the Senate reform, there is a text in the Senate...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u33	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u34	Comrade (NCD). ...that we Senators of the New Right Center presented in a spirit of collaboration with all political forces. The last point concerns Ukraine. The reference to the G8 which would then become a G7 without Russia, the reference to cohesion between the 28, however, Mr President-in-Office, the multilateral institution on which to refer is the OSCE and not NATO. Given that there have been NATO protagonists, they have been wrong, whereas those at the OSCE on the borders of Europe are more than useful. They were trampled on by Putin's statements and, more importantly, by President Gorbachev's hateful statement, which even called for the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. There is no way that only the national state can be subject to international policy. With these sentiments and arguments we share the attitude and spirit with which the Government is starting to reach this important deadline. [[Applause from the NCD and GAL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u35	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I was hoping to hear about climate in a somewhat more technical way. The need to identify new targets for the EU's energy and climate policies by 2030 confirms the importance of addressing decisively the causes that contribute to aggravate the problem of climate change: the world's largest weapon of mass destruction, according to US Secretary of State Kerry, who issued a warning for the negotiations to be held in Paris in 2015 to update the Kyoto Agreement. In this scenario, Europe plays a leading role, having made choices with precise targets by 2020 and having to decide to define the new targets by 2030 already identified by the Commission: 40% less greenhouse gases and 27 percent renewable energy, but leaving flexibility for Member States to set national targets. This proposal, albeit with a few nuances, was accepted by the Italian Government within the framework of the European Energy Council and the Environment Council, despite the fact that the European Parliament considered it'myopic and unambitious' (...), in particular as regards the lack of national targets for renewable energy, and any new significant action for energy efficiency. For the 5 Star Movement it is essential to intervene urgently to cope with climate change and to avoid other disasters: it will be useful to remember the melting of glaciers or Katrina, one of the most serious hurricanes in the United States, which submerged New Orleans, or the victims of floods that have brought to their knees territories such as Sardinia, Calabria, Basilicata, Emilia. These catastrophic consequences are determined precisely by human activities and the resulting climate change in place. The scenario at 2050 of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), titled: "The Consequences of Inaction" 2012, points out that the global climate has moved towards a frightening rise in temperature by six degrees. This scenario will cause irreparable damage to the ecosystem balance and to mankind, which can be translated into quantifiable economic damage in 14% - I stress - of global GDP. What does Italy do? Between one Government and the other it finds the square: it overcomes the historical conflict between the Dicastery of economic development and that of the environment, breaking the position of the second, the most ambitious and last supported by the former minister Orlando, favoring the first, strongly invoked by the usual strong powers, the great producers and energetics: those who will be able to enjoy the exemption of the system charges, the discount on the price of the bill, that will be helped financially to produce energy with the capacity payment, that they will probably take advantage of the incentive to produce in Sulcis and continue to pollute in Italy with the coal. In short, it is always a question of favoring the usual known, those who never tighten the belt and who continue to manage and lead the country. It is these days the news that Italian utilities have generated higher profits than their European competitors by receiving the Top Utility Award. We ask ourselves: how is this possible? Why, in Italy affected by the crisis and with the incentives to renewables that cost too much and despite the overcapacity of power plants, energy companies that use fossil sources make greater profits than their European competitors as the market collapses in the renewables sector and companies are firing? Will it not be a sign of a market governed by rules that favour some companies at the expense of others, but above all at the expense of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises? President Renzi, we note that these companies are the same that support the position of the Government on the climate, Government that, after the demolition in the first days of work, has thought well to appoint as economic advisor free of charge a young 70-year-old, Piero Gnudi, former president of the ENEL as well as minister of the Government Monti, and as his spokesman Gerardo Orsini, who has recently left the post of Head of Press Office of ENEL; a Government with a Minister who says that it would have been better to contain the target of reduction of emissions of 40% because Europe must compete with India, China and the United States. President Renzi, the only credible action, after years of ambitious sectoral policies, consists of coordinated and rational, structural and structured interventions, both in the European and national spheres. There is a need for a wide-ranging, dynamic energy policy, which is both encouraging and dissuasive, capable of giving concrete answers to the energy-environmental challenges. On the climate, the government must give answers. We need a real change, President Renzi, we're tired of the usual announcements. She, who calls herself an excellent scraper, must really cut off with the past. Only then can there be that industrial renaissance, but not only that, about which you yourself have spoken. It must be accompanied by innovative ideas that are always based on the assumption of protecting common goods and, above all, protecting citizens. Competitiveness - as you rightly said - means investing in innovation. Do so, Mr President-in-Office. The Government's proposal, although it contains the good intentions of the industrial renaissance, is unsatisfactory to address the phenomenon of climate change, which requires a commitment to 2030 for the pursuit of at least three objectives binding on individual states and with much more ambitious targets than those proposed, because - taking up a phrase of its own - it is important to understand today more than ever that individual countries and Europe are on the same boat. Only ambitious objectives could avoid the devastating effects that climate change could have on future generations, generating positive effects on many other aspects, such as energy autonomy, also called energy democracy, and employment, which is what the Italians lack. The pursuit of the binding targets of 2020 has already demonstrated - I repeat, it has already demonstrated - the effectiveness that the choices that we of the 5 Star Movement indicate can produce in supporting employment... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Girotto, please conclude. GIROTTO (M5S). ...new industrial supply chains and new jobs, I repeat, new industrial supply chains and new jobs, in the fields of renewable energy and energy efficiency. You said your government isn't afraid to confront numbers. Compare it then with the more than four million people employed in many eco-industries (green work, green job). This is the future. This is the place we'd like you to build. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u38	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tomorrow on the first item on the agenda of the European Council there will be the issue of competitiveness. Meanwhile, we share his understanding of letting us do what we need, also because we cannot attribute to other responsibilities that are ours. As for the reform of the labour market, you will certainly have our support, partly because the great reform was done by the Berlusconi Government. If anything, they have taken big steps backwards with the Fornero reform, which we certainly did not want, even though most of us have been forced to vote for the situation at the time. But there are not only national issues. Since there is the European Council tomorrow, I would have expected something about European general economic policy, perhaps with regard to the fact that, for example, today, because of the European Central Bank's policy, a euro is worth $1.40, almost twice as much as ten years ago. Shortly after the euro came into force, only 70 cents of dollars were bought with one euro, while now we are at 1.40 euros. From this point of view, the competitiveness of the United States of America and of all those who are somehow related to them has doubled compared to the whole of Europe. In fact, it certainly cannot be a coincidence that the United States of America also has a positive growth rate this year, when several European countries, unfortunately including ours, have a negative rate, and above all the many countries of the European Union, except for the three Baltic countries, which, however, do not have the size for which they will be able to act as locomotive for Europe. These are things that concern international politics. We can't do them here. We cannot do them by abolishing the elections for the Senate and the Provinces. In addition to this, there is a European banking policy whereby, because of the decisions taken by the European Banking Authority, our banks were disadvantaged in respect of the German and French banks, who had the imprudence to borrow a lot and to charge themselves with so many Greek titles, they needed to be saved. So Italy had to bring out real money, not on paper, to save, at least in part, Greece's debt, i.e. the German and French banks. (Senator De Petris approaches the government stand and talks to the President of the Council.) These are things that should be said, although I understand, Mr President-in-Office, that Senator De Petris has more interesting things to say to you. (Senator De Petris returns to the benches of her Group). Competitiveness is not just up to us, and the European Council is the forum for this. The second important point, together with the Ukrainian crisis, which will be discussed tomorrow, will concern the climate and energy. The European Union has quickly decided that we Europeans are not interested in shale oil, that is shale oil, but that in a few years will allow the United States to return to being an oil exporting country (it is already for gas thanks to shale gas). That is why across the Atlantic, even in globalised markets, oil costs less than anywhere in the Atlantic, and that is one of the reasons why our energy dependence has even increased. With regard to this, the good things of climate policy, this uncritical adherence to the theory of global warming caused by man, I believe they have their weight, just as certain referendums have had their weight on our country's energy policy, which our party certainly did not want and did not support while instead what you belong to and belonged to, Mr Renzi, has largely supported, depriving Italy of a further possibility of being competitive. Germany has said that then, one day, in the 1920s, in ten, fifteen, twenty years will close nuclear power stations, but in the meantime today it uses them and German companies have this competitive advantage. Remember that the Senate twice approved motions that warned against the danger of the use of the issue of climate warming to damage the competitiveness of our country, our continent in general, also because this unstoppable warming has been going on for fifteen years, it has been fifteen years there has not been an increase in global temperature (in the South of the planet there has never been), so spending billions and billions of the taxpayer on these issues is not such a prudent measure. I shall end, Mr Renzi, by asking her for a favor: I understand that everyone says so and so it is normal for you to say so too, but do not say "Let us go to Europe." I feel like I'm in Europe too. When you go to Brussels, you will go to European offices, but you are already in Europe, this evening too. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tronti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u40	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at this point in the debate, allow me to make a brief change in the register. We all have in mind a symbolic event, that day when President Kennedy in the heart of Germany still divided I say that sentence: ♪ Ich bin ein Berliner ♪ (I'm a Berliner). Today we should all say, shouting it on the roofs, even during the next election campaign: We are Europeans. The nation-state has a great history, of the civilization of the world: from Europe it has left and in Europe it has returned; it has unified peoples, has reformed customs, has produced progress, raising the citizen from the territory to the community. But it has also barred frontiers; it has introduced into history a tragic element that peoples have then experienced on their lives. The twentieth century of the Great Wars - which, we must always remember, is only a part of the twentieth century - told this story. It is in the twentieth century that the idea of Europe breaks into the history of the world; as a reaction, of course, to that tragic event of history, but it must always be borne in mind that the great ideas rarely proceed autonomously in the void: they need a contrast that will bring them out of the island of Utopia to bring them into the land of facts and, if possible, events. The great European politicians of the post-war period, on the path opened by great intellectuals, have not only elaborated an idea: they have set in motion a process, which at this point we can look at as long, contrasted, contradictory and not finished. We are now at a passage: it is to be decided whether it is appropriate to continue in this gradual reformerism, which has also borne fruit. Because today there is a Europe, but with a non-popular image, and precisely this non-popular image has given rise to European populisms, which are so dangerous today. This image shows Europe as the archign guardian of accounts, technocratic master of homework. Here there is a vice of origin that was not intended by the great Europeanists; it came later, in the interest of the great economic and financial groups. A bad historical materialism has established that the structure, namely the common market, the common currency, should first come, and then the political superstructure would naturally follow. That's not how it works. True political Europe has not taken off. We have a Parliament with virtually no government, so much so that this level is called the Commission; a state-form, though federal, is not yet on the horizon. We need to work on this project and this is the other Europe we are talking about today. Europe will not be able to compete, in the geopolitics of the future, as an economic power in the face of the emerging continental giants, but as a political space it is, and will always be, central. Europe is not only West: it is West and also East; it is not only North: it is also South of the world. It is very welcome, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you pay particular attention to this border, to this point of expression of Europe towards the South of the world, where Italy finds its particular vocation. Europe is not only Zivilisation, but also Kultur, that is civilization. Here we meet the best of what has been elaborated by the human spirit. Europe is a sort of place of spirit. Here, in short, we meet the Christian horizon, the liberal culture, democratic practices, socialist hope. [[Applause from Senator Manconi.]] It is not a question of this synthesis, nor is it a question of contamination. It is necessary to maintain the differences, but to compare the differences in the most civil way possible, yielding also pieces of sovereignty of every idea towards the other, each taking from the other the best that that culture and that position has. President Renzi, the next Senate, the Upper House of the Republic, should, in my opinion, begin to think about building here also the strength, legitimacy and authority that project it in this futuristic scenario of another Europe, rather than obeying a particular territory of its own nation, hurling towards the beyond of the nation, towards supranationality, towards the Europe that represents this supranationality. In short, an archipelago Europe, as he thought and wrote in a beautiful book, which I recommend to everyone to read, "Geophilosophy of Europe," my friend Massimo Cacciari. It's not a dream. Personally, I try not to repeat the phrase "I have a dream". Indeed, when I listen to this phrase, I always think of that cartoon of Altan where there is Cipputi that says: Don't make us dream, wake us up! Here, let's give the example first of all: let's try to wake up first of all us, here. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Pin and Di Biagio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u41	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform the Assembly that, in addition to the motions for resolutions that have already been tabled, the motion for a resolution No 5 by Senator Girotto and others has also been tabled. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Renzi, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to thank this House for the debate, which will also be an opportunity for further discussion for our meeting tomorrow. I avoid answering in detail on the individual points that go beyond tomorrow's appointment. Senator Orellana, for example, pointed out a number of questions or, in any case, halfway between the critic and the question, to which, if he agrees, we will be able to answer in writing on the individual positions, these are issues that go beyond tomorrow's appointment and that invest the political choices of the Executive. I merely consider this discussion in the most fascinating and suggestive part, now closed by Senator Tronti with a reference to the relationship between the twentieth century and Europe and also between the dimension of the dream and the dimension of political action. Senator Tronti referred to President Kennedy's great speech, which marked a generation. If I were to reflect on my family and on the generations of my family, I would think that probably that phrase of Kennedy, who was the same age as my grandfather, was a phrase that marked the generation of the combatants of the Second World War, of that "better American youth" who had come to risk life in Europe to give us back freedom and democracy, together with the work of the women and men of the partisan forces who had liberated our country. But that generation is not the only one who has experienced Berlin's speech as a key speech. I keep thinking about the generation of my mother; I am fourteen years old when the Berlin Wall goes down and when that too I am Berlinese it becomes no longer a prophecy, but it becomes a reality, when the two Germanies become one. And I think of the fact that, if I speak to my son of two Germanies, he looks at me -- he would say the poet -- "with a dread of drunkenness", saying to me: How is it possible, Father, that you think of the presence of two Germanies? This does not exist for the generation of our children, accustomed to growing in a European dimension; from low cost flights to the football dimensions of the Champions League, everything is European, and there cannot be a scenario in which we return to the divisions I referred to. All this to say what? That three generations of Italians saw Europe as the place where something great happened for politics. In my opinion, this is the central point of the debate. Europe was the greatest engine of change; it was the bridge, the place of meeting, the place of confrontation. It was the place where hundreds of thousands of human lives were lost, and that politics was able to transform into the greatest place of hope. I was struck by the fact that, when the academic community (or rather, the Nobel Prize organizers) awarded the Nobel Peace Prize to Europe (it seems to me that in 2011, I go to memory), the first discussion among the European institutions was on who should receive it physically, to the point of reaching a shared reception (it seems to me that there were three who presented themselves to receive the Nobel Prize). Why? Because that recognition was a career recognition (we would have said in a film language), but it was also a recognition of stimulus for the future, in our opinion. So, when we start to participate in the European Council, it is very good to be on time about individual choices, but let us not forget that we are not part of a bureaucratic body, of a large board of directors of the European company: we are part of one of the biggest political bets that ever existed on the face of the Earth. That is why your debate has enriched me (I hope I can say: it has enriched us), and it certainly is a stimulus, not because it is different from a specific and timely debate. An assessment of competitiveness in Europe cannot ignore the considerations we have expressed in this House and cannot ignore the profound process of transformation and change that today sees our continent reducing quotas of presence in the global market by virtue of a natural process of rebalancing; but it can require those who represent the European institutions to have a long view: so the President of the Napolitano Republic spoke in Strasbourg, citing another great Father of European unification and a great man of the European left such as Helmut Schmidt. I believe, in fact, that the long view is the one that must characterize the ordinary administrators of daily life and the courageous prophets of politics. This premise is at the heart of my reply. I don't want to replicate point by point. All the speeches have tried to make a contribution. I'm sorry to have to rule out Senator Council's intervention, which has tried to make some irony about the Senate and bicameralism. If after five years in the House and a year in the Senate she has not yet understood that the issue of overcoming bicameralism concerns the vote of confidence - this is the political and cultural reference point on which you will be called to evaluate - and tries to make miserable polemics cheap, I have nothing but to be supportive with her and with her Group. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The reference made by Senator Tremonti was quite different, even in the part of his speech which I do not agree with. However, there is one very interesting point in the speech that Senator Tremonti has made in this House and it is particularly important that Senator Tremonti, who has been in some way the guardian and architect of a part of our country's economic policies for many years, has said so. I am referring to the passage in which Senator Tremonti said that, if Europe does not work, it is not the European bureaucracy, but the policy that has not been able to do its job, and I agree with Senator Tremonti. Someone may consider it an admission of responsibility, someone may simply take note of it, but it is a fact of fact: in recent years it has not been the European bureaucracy that took over the space, it has been politics, even national, that has withdrawn into its own narrow limits. And this is the most beautiful challenge for those of you - because there are - will run for the European elections, for those who will continue to work within the Senate of the Republic and for those of us who will try to work within the Government. That's the challenge. Every element of your discussion has brought - I believe - a small contribution to reflect together. And on what? On the fact that Italy is called to make Italy and therefore to change Europe, but to do so it needs to change itself. I do not want to repeat myself: I tried to say this earlier, trying to stress that this urgency does not come from a psychopathology character of the President-in-Office of the Council. The urgency of speeding up does not stem from a need to return to the elections: we are among those who have said that, as far as we are concerned, one of the elements of innovation is that the legislature must continue its course until the natural deadline, resuming a good habit of all European democratic systems, because that is how it works everywhere. Therefore, there is no anxiety to return to the electorate's judgment; there is the anxiety to give an answer to those Italians who wake up early in the morning and who see - for better or for worse - the political forces engaged in long discussions, who then lose the concretization because they cannot reach a real, precise and punctual turning point. That's why everything is held together. We shall therefore take part in this important and significant summit. Obviously we have before us a horizon that does not end with Friday; however, we have important and significant appointments in the meeting tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Then we will have the European Council meeting in June, where we will return to discuss immigration and also the involvement of other countries. Regarding the data on the Mediterranean, I told you that 2.077 rescues have been carried out; by the Ministry of the Interior have just reported to me that the number is higher (about 3,000 units) and the forecasts tell us that, in the next few hours, there will be other interventions, so we are faced with the real renewal of an emergency, but with an ability of the Italian forces to face it and resolve it, even if then, of course, the challenge is in the long run and it is a challenge that, once again, calls into question politics. However, I was saying that the fact that we are going to compare in the coming weeks and months is that we are going to hold together a European unitary plan that must change, in which Italy, 11 years later - Senator Tremonti recalled the appointment of 2003 - is called not to allow us to go beyond, as happened on that occasion, but to try to direct the discussion even at the moment of the renewal of office, therefore at a particularly important moment; however, at the same time, this will happen in a path of great internal changes that we will have to make, not for some escape of those who represent the Government, but for a concrete, real, immediate and no longer differable need by political forces. If this is the framework in which we move, I would like us to make a commitment together, which is to succeed, as far as we are competent, each in our own political forces, in approaching the electoral meeting as a great opportunity, not living the European elections as the umpteenth poll on national force relations (we do not care, we have said that the horizon is another). I would like us to make a commitment not to live the European elections simply as an opportunity to establish a renewal within the political class, which is a sacrosanct principle, but it is not the fundamental point. I look forward to a commitment to live these European elections, this European transition, such as the great opportunity to tell our citizens something real: the competitiveness of Europe, the relationship between climate, energy, environment and economic development, the answers on the issues of youth unemployment, the investment in new technologies at the service of a different state model. We have not talked about this for long, but the issue of the digital agenda must become a European issue, because for us it means changing the mindset of the state and our businesses. It must become an opportunity for the competitiveness of the European system; investment in an Italy capable of being locomotor and not the last wheel of the wagon, driving and not problem of our Continent. Well, all these issues will be the subject of an electoral campaign that would be nice if we could prove to be the greatest opportunity that politics has to renew itself, but also the opportunity to tell our fellow citizens that outside of these classrooms there is no ugly and bad monster that forces us to do what we are asked to do, but there is a great prospect: the one to which Senator Tronti last referred, which comes from a twentieth century that has been the century of divisions, struggles and fratricidal conflicts and that today can be permanently archived in a perspective of peace and well-being, but that must see politics back to doing its own job and politicians, for once, be courageous interpreters of tomorrow and not nostalgic archivists of the past. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u43	What is the Government's view on the motions for resolutions before us?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u44	Mr President, I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1 and against the others. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u45	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u48	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for what he has said. Of course, we will vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1, because we believe that the appointment that will take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow at the European Council marks a turning point in relation to the past, even if only in the same way as the text of the agenda. Until some time ago, industrial competitiveness issues were not on the agenda of the European Council; in the past years, before the economic crisis that affected the whole continent broke out, it was believed that Europe should go further, that Europe should be a large group of countries that looked at the Europe 2020 strategy, at the Lisbon strategy, all focused on the financial economy, at the exit from manufacturing, or dedicated only to other major strategic industrial sectors. What the agenda for tomorrow tells us is that the issues that are also at heart in the South-Europe industries are at the heart of a European agenda, and that is extremely possible. But we can only achieve those objectives if we really start an industrial policy and a trade policy in Europe that is innovative compared to the past; a trade policy that is reciprocal, that looks at the completion of the internal market not only of energy, but in a general sense, according to the rules of competition, that looks at a new generation of free trade agreements (already launched, such as those with South Korea, Colombia, Canada) and that looks at new initiatives such as that towards the United States. Creating a large free trade area between the two sides of the Atlantic is a condition for creating new competitiveness in the world. It must also be accompanied by a new world monetary order without which the imbalances present in world trade and which also concern our industrial systems will not be solved. A new way of assisting small and medium-sized enterprises in global competitiveness is needed; Today, in fact, Italian small and medium-sized enterprises are not able to protect their patents, their brands, their industrial property in the world. This is the industrial policy that is expected from Europe. These are the basic conditions for a new energy independence and for the food independence behind the reform of the common agricultural policy to be the basis for a new development. This will also be possible by implementing what was at the heart of the Lisbon Strategy: the new research policy, that Horizon 2020, which we need to base on a new industrial policy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if we presented Europe in this way rather than constantly presenting it as the stepmother, as the cause of all the evils, we would have no difficulty in explaining to our fellow citizens how we can get out of this crisis. I would ask you to use your extraordinary communicative capacity to present a different narrative to the country, the one that began to present this evening and which says that there is no Europe to be opposed to another, but that we must complete this Europe. The great problem facing us is the fact that Europe is a great unfinished and what I have proposed before can be done if we create a new idea of European political and economic governance, the one that has been lacking not because the Brussels authorities did not want it, but because in these five years of the major economic and financial crisis there has not been that reform of the Treaties which should have completed the path outlined in Lisbon. It is a reform that should have given us that political Europe, that different economic governance, the completion of the banking union, projects that should have been implemented for some time, but that the European capitals, the national governments did not want to achieve. The European dream is broken at the very moment when it is not fulfilled, it is not progressing, if the national governments do not throw their hearts past the obstacle and create the premises for truly being able to carry out this great unfinished which is Europe. Then, tomorrow's European Council, which is the basis of our future six-month European Presidency, must really push Italy, deep down, towards those structural reforms already announced, but which unfortunately we also see being hindered by the majority in government. In fact, some statements of recent days do not go in the direction of these structural reforms; I am referring to the fact that we do not want to overcome the division between police bodies, the struggle with which we deal with the subject of public employment, the resistances that find the themes of work, privatisation and liberalization. One thing is the announcement, one thing is to really put in place the reformist will that goes in the direction of a different Europe. Italy has a great gap with the rest of the European countries: it is a gap that is called public debt, which is the legacy of a distant past of assault to the diligence of the public accounts, but also of a present past, which reminds us of a chase to welfare, to clientelisms, that we must beat in order to be able to make us protagonists in front of Europe of a real turning point. We have done many homework for citizens, but few have done so by the state: the great difference between us and the great European countries is right here. It is much easier to point out as guilty the Merkel, Sarkozy, Holland, the external enemy to which we attach ourselves in order to be able to indicate the shortcomings of our competitiveness, than to look at the beams in our eyes. The truth is that others have hooked up with the growth train and made structural reforms 15 years ago, while we still can't do them now. That is why I am able to engage the recovery and, despite the euro being too strong - because there is no new world monetary order to which I referred earlier - they succeed in being the first exporters in the world. This is the great issue that we cannot solve and to which we cannot give a solution. The recovery of the dream of the founding Fathers is therefore in our ability to complete that design, without feeding ghosts. I repeat that we must use all the extraordinary communication of this President of the Council, of the Government and of their reformative will to explain to the Italians that there is a different narrative and a different Europe than that which is painted as a stepmother and guilty of all evils. This is not the case, I stress: most of our evils lie within us, in not being able to overcome the misfortunes of bad solutions carried out for twenty years in our country, especially in the government of the public thing, in the failure to release the energies of an economic and productive system, in the widespread illegality and in the subtraction to democracy of entire territories of our country. These are our faults, from which we must leave without dumping on others and pass on to others the cerine of our responsibilities. Here, I think we will recover the dream of the founding fathers. And above all, there is another danger, which is latent: alongside criticism of the euro and Europe, an extremely dangerous anti-German feeling is spreading. We certainly cannot overcome the architecture and the founding idea of Europe: France, Germany and Italy are the heart of the project, the architrave of that design that was synthesized by three great founding fathers, De Gasperi, Schuman and Adenauer, an Italian, a French and a German who, when they met, had to really understand each other and therefore had to speak German to each other. The problem of nourishing an anti-German feeling is that this means feeding an anti-European coinciding one: here we really must make a great effort to keep within the European system that axis, which is political-cultural, on which the very idea of modern Europe was founded, in order to address those concrete problems that will begin to face tomorrow the European Council, but that are the keystone and turning point for a new Europe that I hope the European Semester can also seal with a new Convention that opens the way to a new Treaty that completes the unfinished Europe of today. [[Applause from the SCPI and PI groups and Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u51	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your statements, for your reply and also for some of the statements you have made, which I shall recall in my very brief explanation of vote. The Senators of our Group have always been Europeanists: they have been so in unsuspecting times and during the Iron Curtain, when in this Parliament and in this House we were divided between those who supported Western Europe in its evolution - from the ECSC to the European Union today, passing through the Monetary Serpent and the EMS - and those who instead supported the planned economy and the democracy of Eastern Europe. We are still Europeanists today, indeed today we are more convinced than yesterday, more convinced that the world evolves more and more for macro-areas, where the critical masses become populations, the number of inhabitants and, above all, the numerical consistency of the youth population, where raw materials, productivity, the ability to decide quickly, but also the ability to plan and plan in time become important. China, the United States, Russia, but also, for example, Brazil and South Africa, the emerging countries, today ensure timeliness and planning over time of their restructuring, renewal and modernity. We are convinced that only then, in a Community and not an intergovernmental Europe, will we be able to support that global challenge of maintaining together those two domains referred to here by Senator Tremonti: values and progress. Our competitiveness, the competitiveness of our continent, today is the sum of the competitiveness of individual countries; but, if we want to stay ahead, we can only reason on a continental competitiveness. Today Europe is a beached whale, unable to respond quickly to the problems that arise within it, such as the difficult financial situations of some countries (Greece, Portugal and others), or, as in the case of Ukraine, external problems. Sooner or later we will have to arrive at the United States of Europe, but we will always be late in arriving at the need to maintain the high quality and quantity of our welfare, the quantity and distribution of the wealth produced, the ability to give breath to the expectations of freedom, emancipation and democracy. We agree with you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: we will only be able to pursue this plan and this high and noble perspective if we can bring Italy up to its history. You have proposed this task through a programme and a project for structural reforms in the economic and institutional fields. That is the condition, because - as you said - we can only change Europe if we change Italy. And we, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are with you in this effort. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u54	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President of the Senate, the LAG Group has had its time with the authoritative speech of Professor Tremonti, whom we thank. My speech is intended only to tell the President-in-Office that unfortunately we will not be able to vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1, because we do not support it. We cannot approve of everything the President-in-Office has said, even if we are not against everything he has said, with a lot of positive things and some repetitions in his speech. We listened carefully to your speeches, starting with what you held in the Chamber of Deputies, where you made three important quotations; apart from that about Father Diana, you mentioned Lula, Alex Langer and Kissinger. On Langer we all agree; Kissinger's quote made me smile a little, because his party has nailed him for many years as the author of crimes against humanity; Lula's quote made me a little angry, because Lula is the one who did not grant the extradition of Caesar Baptists. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And Cesare Battisti is not Curcio, he is not Sofri: he was a common criminal enlisted by the brigadeists as a labourer of terrorism. We agree with what the President has said about the search for competitiveness, although the President then contradicts himself because first he says that competitiveness is a necessity to try not to improve, but to help change European unity and then he says that competitiveness must not be sought for others, but for ourselves. Probably there is some confusion, and it would be good to remember what the Anglo-Saxons say, namely that a government communicates more about things done than things said. But we know that you, President, are the captain of a team that loves to play by throwing the ball far ahead. However, risking that the ball goes to the stands, and if they take it in the stands there is the risk that they won't give it back, President Renzi, and if they don't give it back we're all done playing, he finished playing Italy and his is the most important responsibility, because you are the captain of the team. Happy birthday and congratulations, then, President Renzi, but again, please: prudence, prudence and still prudence. Things done and not things said. [[Applause from the LAG Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u57	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am voting in favour of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE motion for a resolution No 1, which our Parent Company has also signed. Our Group has appreciated the courage with which you have faced the challenges that today are decisive for our country, starting with those of work, youth unemployment, the fight against excessive bureaucracy. You have spoken of fiscal delegation, on which we count a great deal: I must tell the truth, for us this is the real test of the new Government. You spoke of reducing labour costs in order to make Italian companies still competitive and it will not be easy, but we have heard clear and concrete words. He spoke above all of politics with capital P, and therefore of the dignity and pride of regaining the very meaning of politics. Today, in the 5th Commission, I also stressed the humiliation that we sometimes have to suffer in order not to solve problems, to find solutions, even absurd rules. I believe that the Senate and Parliament should be freed from some of the rules that are too strict, from those laces and laces that you yourself mentioned, which make it impossible for us at times to operate or find solutions. We have also appreciated the realistic approach that he had towards Europe and this same approach we expect him also to face the challenges that await our state, with the same spirit of responsibility that our self-governments (here are represented the Provinces of Trento, Bolzano, Valle d'Aosta) have always been accustomed to exercising. You said it well too: our enemy is not Europe, but it is disengagement, self-referentiality; Europe today, on the other hand, can help us with some virtuous and positive experiences that we must not have problems assimilating. We have always (I am talking especially for my party, which was called before adopting the current name, the Trentino Tyrolean People's Party for the European Union) have always been convinced Europeans. Trentino is the land that gathers the great, strong legacy of De Gasperi and for this reason we believe, as we have heard this afternoon from many others, in the Europe of people, of businesses, not of bureaucracy; we believe in the Europe of solidarity and not of selfishness, in the Europe of collaboration and not of nationalism, those same nationalisms that led to wars. This year is also the centenary of the start of the Great War, so I would also like to say the Europe of peace and not take it for granted, since we have seen what has happened in Ukraine precisely in these weeks. It is in this spirit, Mr President, that we wish you good work. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u60	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, let us be somewhat dismayed, because we would have expected at least a greater deepening of the motions for resolutions tabled. Of course you will have read them, and you will have done so with some attention (although frankly we doubt that this could be true, having arrived late in this House). Having said that, we must be aware that by saying no to the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Calderoli, the Government says no to an act of transparency, because the same motion for a resolution commits the Government to present to Parliament, in view of the European Council in Brussels on 20 and 21 March 2014, or, alternatively, within one week of today, the texts of the measures announced at the press conference of the President of the Council on economic, fiscal and labour matters, on payments of public administration debts. The government either told the fake when it said it wanted to do these acts, or today it doesn't want to answer what it said to the press. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is the seat in which the Government must respond, here we take the commitments and on this motion for a resolution a Government that does not simply want to tell the Italians, but that wants to do things for the Italians must vote yes, it must say yes. In the Senate you have to say yes, otherwise you say one thing for the press and then you do another as an act of government. This is the true lie that is consumed here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The same is true of the other motion for a resolution, the one tabled by the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, with which we are not asking things from the other world, but we are asking the government for a serious commitment on security; we are asking the government to commit itself to reviewing the fiscal compact; we are asking the government to commit itself to strengthening Frontex's mechanism; we are asking the government to ensure that the Russian-Ukrainian question is not handled by France, Germany, the United Kingdom or other foreign countries, but that it also becomes a moment of interest for us, because there is a free people who are expressing themselves in a democratic referendum. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , which, moreover (president Renzi, perhaps did not notice), is also happening in Italy. Maybe this topic is uncomfortable and we put it aside, but it is on these things that people must be given answers. On the other hand, on these motions for resolutions, the Government says no per party, regardless of what is written in it. From here we read the figure of your Government, President Renzi, a Government that starts with the relationship that Cain had with Abel, that of those who simply take to make an instrumental use of politics and puts aside those who had preceded it without hurting, simply to be able to take its place ambitiously. Then go to Europe and be more credible than the Led Government has been. But we wonder: how can you do that? If the money was there yesterday, it's there today, if it wasn't there yesterday, it's not even there today. The political majority of your government is the same! Either they were lying to the Italians yesterday, or they're lying to the Italians today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In this respect, I must acknowledge a greater skill than your predecessor. I'm sure you can sell the pans well. If they're holed up, even better! Unfortunately, in this country there are still people who believe those who sell pots, maybe even with the excuse that if they are not used for risotto they can be used for roasts the following year. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That is the seriousness you are showing today. Dear President of the Council, you should have told us what Prime Minister Merkel said about fiscal compact. This is the subject on which we want answers. I see your smile changes. We're not talking about 3%. We are talking about 50 billion euros, something that will bring this country to its knees permanently if it is not changed. Don't fool yourself. The pats on the shoulders that have given it in Europe are not for the pseudo-reforms that you want to carry out with the undersecretary Delrio, they are not for the Provinces that you will not abolish, but that you will pretend to abolish, they are not for the change of form of the Senate from which no change of expense will be generated: they are simply pats on the shoulders pleased by those who wait nothing but to feed on what remains of the Italian industrial system. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is what you are about to do: sell our industry to pieces, starting with the state industry. The economy that has made our country flourish is now in pieces. If Frau Merkel hasn't told you, I must remind you that this country has not respected the European constraints. That country is in economic surplus. On the other hand, since the euro came into force, we have been in deficit. These are the things the government has to commit to. And that does not make us understand why you are saying no to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group today. So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me be honest and say that the interest that is moving it is not the recovery of the Italian coffers, but simply the idea of carrying out a political plan: its ambitious political plan! He has taken possession of a party in which he does not recognize himself, and now he also wants to purify its senators and Members. You want to take this country to the election by pretending to bring it to recovery. You know very well that you don't have the cards in order to restore the state's coffers, but you're making fun of the Italians. At the right time you'll find the excuse to throw the cards to the air saying "I was what you wanted to save, but they, this Senate, the House, didn't let me. Now, I who am the man of destiny will give the solution. In the meantime, Mr Renzi, do not forget to pay homage to the European lobbyists who are beating them on their shoulders so kindly. Certainly the Euro-German enthusiasm that you are showing when you go to Frau Merkel with a nice football shirt has nothing to do with the problems of Italian citizens, businesses and those who cannot pay taxes and who even take their lives. All this has nothing to do with "The Great Beauty." This is a country that has become ugly from this point of view. Mr Renzi, do not forget to give Frau Merkel a telephone call this evening, telling her that he has also done his homework in the classroom today. Eine schöne gute Nacht, Herr Renzi. Mr. President, good night. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u63	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we agree that in order to save the European dream it is necessary to relaunch it. We are absolutely convinced that we must put in place not only the ideas of the founding Fathers, to which Italy - I would like to remind you - has made a great contribution, but to act accordingly. It is clear that Europe is in a moment of crisis from an ideal point of view. President Renzi, we will see this crisis in the European elections, because for the first time in these European elections we will be discussing Europe, women and men in Europe. In order to save and revive the idea of the United States of Europe and the peoples, we must have courage and ensure that Italy regains its role in the past. We must change and have the courage to make our contribution. Mr Renzi, I would like to say, precisely because the European Semester is approaching, that Italy must have a leading role to play in changing the European policies that have been going on to date, which have led us to this situation. Of course, wrong choices have been made over the years, but today the fundamental question is that we have seen that the policies of rigorist rigor and expansionism are not taking anywhere; they are not leading out of the crisis. I believe that this is now an issue that not only women and men in Europe are living on their own. For the first time, in the European Parliament too, it is becoming increasingly clear that strict policies must be abandoned and development and investment policies must be launched without shyness. We must take on this role, otherwise Europe will be overwhelmed by those who are feeding and feeding with force all the most bleak anti-European sentiments. Leaving the policies of rigour means starting to ask seriously and forcefully for the revision of the fiscal compact. We cannot get out of this: we cannot just re-establish an act of faith in Europe without taking these issues into our own hands. We must agree with the European Union that the so-called golden rule should be renegotiated, that investment should be separated from the 3% constraint and that it should be possible for these investments to be financed on a European scale to enable the Union as a whole to emerge from economic stagnation. President Renzi, you, before going to Merkel, went to Hollande. There, we must be able to build the right alliances in Europe to take on this role. You know that better than I do, because at least in your programmatic intervention, at the time of trust, you referred to this in some way. I didn't hear anything about it today. In the ideal drive to save Europe, we strongly point out what we call the other Europe, as you reminded us, also because we think it is possible to build it. And since there is also the possibility of this being chosen at the European Council on 20 and 21 March, we must also be very serious and precise about the positions to be taken in terms of the redefinition of competition at global level. Since we are discussing budgetary policies there, we have made specific proposals on this subject. We must go with a precise position if we are to start to undermine the policies of rigour that have led us to the recession. Otherwise we will face the situation of the dog that bites its tail, because we will never succeed, with the GDP that decreases more and more - as you have seen, the estimates, unfortunately, are not positive for our country - to respect those parameters. We have been coming for years and years of total absence of any rag of national industrial policy. The time has come to make the choices for our country, which means to start making the decisions; to have a national program that traces the trajectories of the development, with the objective to extend it to the infrastructural and transport system; to realize an entirely ecological industry that knows how to invest on the green technologies and the safety of the people, on the digital agenda, on the innovation and the abilities of our system, that exist. With regard to climate and energy, let me say, Mr President, that this issue is crucial for us. We could have been the vanguard of a model, including energy, of the future, which has already produced important results, because the choice to invest on renewables has been very important for our future. But we have to choose, because Europe has come back on this too. In fact, compared to the targets that had been set some time ago for 2030, it has taken a completely different attitude, so much so that it changes them. On the other hand, we must put ourselves at the head of a policy on renewables, because it is also in our own national interest to relaunch the energy revolution and, therefore, to indicate to Europe for 2030 the very precise objectives: the 55% cut in CO2 emissions, the achievement of a share of 45% of energy from renewable sources and the improvement of at least 40% of energy efficiency. In light of this, then, review the national energy strategy. This means taking on a precise role, because putting oneself at the head of the even more advanced objectives in Europe means doing the interests of our country and, above all, implementing policies that can save Europe. Italy can be saved if it is able, even in Europe, to take a decisive role in getting out of these policies of rigour that have led to a recession and marginalization of almost the whole of southern Europe. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u66	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the senators and senators of the New Right Centre will vote in favour of your approach to relations between Italy and the European Union. In particular, we belong to that geopolitical and geoeconomic vision that wants a Europe projected to grow in all its dimension, including that Mediterranean area whose relational vocation towards the East and the South represents a fundamental vehicle of peace and development. Similarly, the Ukrainian crisis must lead not only to legitimate shared reactions to the violation of fundamental international rules, but also to the awareness of the necessary pan-European projection of the Union and the consequent relations with a great country such as Russia, which we have no interest in pushing towards other alliances: all this without neglecting that interest in more intense transatlantic political and commercial relations, which correspond to our firmly Western principles. Mr President, first of all, we must ask Europe: to share a vision that avoids any danger of the Baltic rippling of economic development and any return to the atavic conflict between the centre and the periphery. This was the merit of the founding Fathers, who knew how to draw institutions as a result of the vision. Today, a similar method could lead us to call for a re-start of the Union according to a pragmatic approach of a confederal type, in the name of the rule "Europe" only when necessary, the Nation always when possible": a Confederation of sovereign States that devotes itself to the primary tasks of the currency, the sword and the felucca, with a group of leading countries, of countries more equal than others, in which Italy can legitimately aspire to place itself if it realizes the change that we have undertaken together to achieve. You have today reiterated objectives that are music for our ears, because they correspond to choices that until yesterday belonged mostly to liberal-popular political culture: a more flexible and inclusive labour market, less laces and laces, for people as well as for businesses; a justice - not only civil, we add - more just and an ambitious path of simultaneous reduction of public administration expenditure, as well as tax levy, all this represents a bipartisan platform synthesized in the definition of "less state, more society". These changes, however - we must be aware of this - constitute significant torsions for Italian politics, as it has been strongly spoiled by the ideologies of the twentieth century, combined with our fragile unitary history. On the day that we remember Marco Biagi, I thank you and Minister Poletti for the courageous deregulation of apprenticeships and forward contracts, an immediate measure that has found - not by chance - strong appreciation in the European interlocutors in recent days and that will encounter some announced difficulties in the parliamentary process. Italian justice must change, if we are to offer certainty to international investors; but, in order to do so, we must together defeat those in Parliament who defend not only lawyers but also magistrates. Cutting taxes really involves cutting expenses, and we will participate in its competition of ideas in the belief that there are important areas of rationalization, suggesting that they look not only at the central dimension, but also at those Regions and those many municipalities that, directly and with their participants, represent large forges of public debt. Recreation must really be over, starting with the effective application of that political failure of the local administrators that was introduced by fiscal federalism. State reforms may no longer be the instrumental club of one another, but the place of sharing in the majority and wider parliamentary dimension. They are and will be, if we can keep together the new electoral law with the Senate of the autonomous and, nevertheless, with the redesign of the territorial authorities and their relationship with the State within the framework of the Constitutional Charter. Everything is held, in this architecture, if the aim is to produce a democracy that is decisive in the internal and supranational dimensions, a certain set of regional competences in the context of the reaffirmation of the greater interest of the nation, a drastic reduction of the centers of expenditure. Mr President, we welcome your call to change Italy to change Europe because we feel it intimately ours and, in the race for change, the two political areas that make up this majority, the liberal-popular and the socialist ones, can relate to each other as in the beautiful image of Don Camillo and Peppone who by bicycle, the metaphor of the race of life, are mutually aspiring at the same point of arrival. They have a different idea in the moments of abstraction, but they converge easily and immediately whenever it comes to pulling up sleeves for a concrete problem. With that spirit, we're gonna make it together. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u69	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who listen to us from outside, fortunately, I would like to say that our vote, Mr President, will be against your motion for a resolution. Mr. Renzi, I'd like to ask you a question right away. Let's talk about transparency. We citizens, after so many years of mischief, are a little preoccupied with certain things, we are concerned. How come, while he was mayor of Florence, he lived in an apartment whose rent was paid by his friend Marco Carrai, who also happens to be the managing director of a municipality company? [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u70	Senator, I would like to refer you to the subject of the debate, which is Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u71	SANTANGELO (M5S). And why don't you show us the contract and the amount you paid? This matter - and I shall return to the subject immediately, Mr Grasso - worries us, because we would not want you to do the same thing with our country. We wouldn't want him to pay for his political career with the money of us Italians, living behind our backs. Renzi, come in! If it gets easier, maybe tweet! We are waiting, and not only for this: we are waiting for documents [[Comments from the PD Group]] to explain to us in detail the package of reforms that is preparing for Italy. To date, in fact, we have seen only proclamations and scenes seen and magazines over time. We remember only a few of them: in 2011 Merkel meets Monti and claims to have been hit; in 2013 Merkel meets Letta and claims to have been hit. Now she will understand, then, that we cannot be calm if a few days ago, after your last meeting, Merkel exclaimed that she was very impressed. Mr. Renzi, Italy has been hit for years. It's almost sunk. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You hit Merkel because you assured her that Italy will respect the fiscal compact, that is, you assured Germany that Italy will pay 50 billion a year and maybe more. But who's gonna pay this time? I say this to you: it will be the usual known ones who pay, that is, companies and us honest citizens, from those who have a project contract to those who have a minimum pension. So let me understand: as you tell me that you will give 80 euros in paycheck to a part of the Italians, why don't you say that, in order to respect the dictates of the fiscal compact, you will take away to all Italians about 1,000 euros per year? And not only that. He also said that he wanted to respect the 3% constraint on the deficit-GDP ratio, denouncing himself for the umpteenth time. Only in January did you say that it is a bond that can be overtaken, because it is anachronistic. But I ask you: what do your constituents say to you? Oh, yeah, I'm forgetting, you don't have any voters. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] The 5 Star Movement has different ideas. We in Merkel and Europe are asking for: the abolition of fiscal compact; the exclusion from the 3% annual budget deficit limit for investment in innovation and new productive activities; the abolition of the constraint on balance-sheet; financing for agricultural and livestock farming activities aimed at domestic consumption; the adoption of eurobonds, i.e. guaranteed European public bonds, to prevent Italy from ending up like Greece. Only then will we, Mr Renzi, ask the Italians and all the citizens what they want to do about the euro and our monetary sovereignty. Of course, it is not kissing the hands of Merkel that you can solve this situation [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , not least by sacrificing our Constitutional Charter to Europe. Yeah, you said something just now that made my blood freeze in my veins. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] CARDINALI (PD). Oh, my gosh! SANTANGELO (M5S). You would have offered constitutional and institutional reforms to our European partners as a sign of good intentions. What is it? Who do we have to prove what to, Mr. Renzi? And above all: how do we want to prove it? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let us not forget that you have no esteem for the institutions. You were not elected to this Parliament, as Mr Monti was not elected, as Mr Letta was not elected. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Do you think we're more credible? Do you really believe that by making an electoral law with a condemned person who cannot even run for office in Europe, Italy can become more credible? Let's hear what the European Union says: They must be ineligible for the European Parliament and in the impossibility of serving in the institutions and bodies of the Union not only those convicted definitively for crimes of organised crime and money laundering...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u72	I invite you to conclude, Senator Santangelo. Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u73	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Conclude! SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, 30 seconds and I'm done. ... but also those for corruption and other serious crimes, even of an economic and financial nature. Renzi, you come here to talk to us about Europe, you decide our fate with Merkel. But in Europe you and your friend Berlusconi can't even set foot in it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I am about to finish, Mr President. You, Mr. Renzi, and your government are the founders of a democracy that you think you've already swept away. No, you don't. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] EXPOSED Stefano (PD). There's Grillo! SANTANGELO (M5S). It is still firmly guarded here, in the hands of millions of citizens who will soon, very soon, sooner than you think, send you home. [[Applause from the M5S Group. The Senators of the M5S Group raise signs with the words: "Matteostaisereno" (Matteostaisereno). Senator Lucidi raises an iPad with the inscription: "Everyone Renziani now". Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u74	Please, the signs. (Parliamentary assistants intervene to remove the cartels). Mr Bottici, I invite you to speak. You have the responsibility. BOTTICS (M5S). I'm here. CARDINALI (PD). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u77	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, perhaps a little good education and bon ton in this House would not hurt. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] But I still want to take up President Renzi's challenge on the confidential tone he used today, both in the House and in the Senate. I will then make a deliberately messy speech; in other times it would be said to be "articulated." President Renzi, I think you are here today to discuss the parliamentary classrooms, not to understand, but to have some suggestions and some more advice on what to say in Europe. You spoke today basically of three issues. [[Brusio from the benches of the M5S Group]] I would kindly ask you to let me speak. We let you display your signs. [[Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Santangelo's comments.]] These are gestures that are not done in a Parliamentary House, but we will teach you this next time, don't worry. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Mr President, I renew your request to bring back a minimum of good education to this Parliament, but I pretend that the 5 Star Movement Group is used to something else. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u78	Please, Senator Romani, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u79	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). President Renzi today spoke of three issues: competitiveness, accountability and international policy. I would like to start with the last subject, Mr President. Tomorrow evening I think you have a fairly important meeting on this issue, and you will talk about the Ukrainian issue. The Ukrainian question is not born today and it is not even born yesterday. It is a problem that has arisen in Europe over the last few decades on many occasions, and I do not think that its role today is to add to the decisions already taken by Western Chancellors, who usually decide on international policy. Looking back on the history of these years, we have had so many occasions when Western Chancellors have made a mistake. I would like to mention a few of them. In June 1991, Slovenia and Croatia declared their independence. The European Union stated that it did not recognise the independence of these two countries. Germany, by chance - Germany at the time was not Germany today - but Italy also recognized the independence of Slovenia and Croatia and began a terrible war, which in the neighbouring former Yugoslavia caused almost a million deaths. More recently, in the name of the principle of self-determination of peoples, we have all recognised Kosovo, which has become an autonomous region within the Serbian Federation. However, a few years earlier, a shameful page of Europe's history was written. In July 1995, after Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia declared themselves independent, after the breakup of the state federal entity of Yugoslavia, in Srebrenica 60 Dutch soldiers turned to the other side, on the contrary, toasted with the Mladić soldier, while the Arkan Tigers killed 8,300 Muslim citizens of Srebrenica and raped their women. A shameful page of European history, which was written with the complicity of an international contingent sent by Europe. In Ukraine everything is not born today. Ukraine is a complex country. When Germany invaded the then Soviet Union, in Ukraine there were paramilitary departments that, along with the Germans, fought against the Russians: a terrible story, a history of great famines in the 1930s, a history of submission of the Tatar minority. As I said, Ukraine is a complex country which - as it happens - once again has the possibility of a principle of self-determination. Crimea, 65% Russian-speaking, made a referendum with which it decided to join its mother Russia. We didn't recognize her. So we didn't want to recognise Slovenia and Croatia, but we recognized them, and a war broke out. We have recognised Kosovo, which has been self-determined, and we have allowed the Kosovo Albanians or Kosovars to be independent. However, we did not participate in the peace process in Yugoslavia as we should have. Today we do not recognize the self-determination of Crimea. I tell you these things, Mr President, because they are problems that cannot be solved simply. We cannot say that we disagree. However, I also wonder what exactly happened in Maidan Square. There were tens of thousands of people in Maidan Square. For the description given by the media, those tens of thousands of people belonged, yes, to groups of willing young people who fought for their freedom, but against a government that, as we know, had been democratically elected; moreover, in that same square there were 100 deaths, on which there has not yet been light and clarity, because there are videos - as you know - of someone who shot, and we do not know exactly who it is. With regard to these assessments, I think that Europe must be present today with discernment; it must pose problems which it has not solved in the past; it must ask itself to what extent it is the attitude to be taken in the future. Moreover, as far as Russia is concerned, with which - for example - we have energy supply relations and which we would like it to be in Europe, as we have always asked and wanted, we risk rejecting it further, outside Europe, because today it has participated in the self-determination of the Russian-speaking people of Crimea. Mr President, I do not give you solutions, but problems, assessments, the possibility of being present in Europe with the typical culture of Italy, which has gone through wars, principles of self-determination, peoples, Italian minorities abroad that have been driven out and non-Italian minorities within our borders, and we have always solved these problems with great civilization. I tell you these things and I would have liked to talk about many others, but I conclude by saying that we have not tabled a motion for a resolution, but we will not vote for the one that supports your Government. However, we wish you good work in Europe, also according to your words, which I wrote to myself: "Who wants to change Europe must first be able to change himself" (and we approve of what you have expressed to us) [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] And again:... We have amply demonstrated that we have the cards in order. We agree with these assessments and with these analyses. We hope that the behaviour of the Government in Europe, especially on the case of international policy that I have outlined before, will be a consequence of the culture, capacity and strength that its Executive seems to be able to express. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u82	CHITI (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all I must say that I am uncomfortable and, in some way, apologise to my colleagues and to the President of my Group who asked me to make this explanation of vote. I don't know, I can't, I can't, and I don't even want to learn to turn politics into a fight between people where there's no more confrontation between ideas, there's no confrontation even on positions, but there's intolerance towards people, whether they're friends or opponents. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, FI-PdL XVII, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PI. Comments from the M5S Group]] I don't think this is a road, and I apologize because I can't and I don't want to learn. I want to end my political experience without learning. I'd like to tell my colleagues at the Five Star Movement... [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u83	Let me talk. Please, Senator Chiti, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u84	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] CHITI (PD). I would like to say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who in the last elections had about 25% of the votes, that perhaps those votes and those consents should try to express them with the criticality they want to make a contribution to the life of the institutions, and not to transform the life of the institutions into a form of degradation and also... [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] [[Applause from the PD Group]] .. As you can see, in a form of interruption, when I did not interrupt you. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u85	Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u86	Quiet! CHITI (PD). I appreciated the issues that the President of the Council put today in the communications made to the Senate and the House. Incidentally, you, Mr President, do not need to explain why those who followed even a minimum debate would understand that your delay in coming to this House was due to the continuation of the debate, the debate and the explanations of vote in the other branch of Parliament. Apart from that, I think it was right to put some issues on the agenda and which also emerge from the political point of view, to the attention of the House and the Senate, on the eve of such a demanding European Council. The first concerns Ukraine, to which Senator Romani referred. I do not want to retrace the story, on which I can share your views in many respects, Mr President. There is, however, one aspect that we must stress, also drawing the money from his remarks: in Europe we cannot continue to change the borders of the States by de facto, just because this has happened in recent years. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] If these modalities were to happen, President, your children and the present generations of our country risk living what we have lived for a few years of youth: winds of cold war, which we do not want to be there. And the story of Ukraine and what moves in Europe or the Mediterranean with the Arab Springs also make us understand the importance of a European Union with a common foreign and security policy [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Ichino]] , and not 28 foreign policies or 28 security policies that don't make one. It is also clear from all this that the importance of the European Union's attitude in this matter, and - let us be clear - within the European Union, that of the German Government as well as that of the Italian Government, which have insisted and weighed - as it is right and right that we continue to do so - is that the firmness of principles and values, which must be defended, should be defended by diplomatic means and by political relations, and not by isolating a large country. Otherwise we are faced with complications that would again blow winds of cold war in Europe. I also welcome the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council has not only spoken about the dossiers, which are important and which are being put to the attention of the European Council in the coming days: competitiveness in Europe, industrial policy strategy, climate, energy. I would point out that Europe is not sudden: the dossiers on the agenda of the European Council have not been prepared in the last five minutes. In this regard I would also like to stress the continuity in the action of governments, and also of that of our country. And, in addition to this continuity, we must consider at the same time that, if a turning point is being made, as is being partially determined - in my opinion, in part: this is the point, and for this reason I appreciated the second part of the speech by the President of the Council concerning the Europe project - that is, the theme of development and employment is being put back at the centre, this would not only be a positive fact that responds to the needs of the European countries and citizens, but would also represent the outcome for which the Italian governments of recent years have worked. There is, therefore, also an element of satisfaction for what we have done, which we must keep in mind, value and claim. It was good for the President-in-Office of the Council to put the problem on which we must confront ourselves and on which it is hoped that, in our country, a much wider majority will be formed than the one that supports the Government, and also much wider than the political forces: the need, that is, to rebuild a trust and hope among the citizens. Project Europe, project of the European Union: we want, yes, a European Union that is stronger and different at the same time; stronger, because it is so close to the citizens and, therefore, it is more democratic; stronger, because it takes the priorities. This is something on which we must insist, not in order not to make our choices, but because it is right to insist that, if we do not together maintain budgetary consolidation, development and employment, not only there is a breakdown (and not a reform) between the institutions of the European Union and citizens, but also a failure to achieve budgetary consolidation, as is evident in our country. It is clear that we must make the reforms that have been outlined here and that must be implemented, from those of the political and institutional system to those of the public administration, from the labour market to the spending review. I would like to give an unsolicited advice to the President-in-Office of the Council: on spending reviews, Commissioners report to you and to the Government and then decide and communicate the decisions, because otherwise 150,000 outbreaks will open and no progress will be made because, in order to make the reforms, consensus is needed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We do not want to exceed 3% in the deficit-to-gross domestic product ratio, and not because Germany or France are asking us to do so, but because we have a huge public debt from which we have to get out and we want to make our reforms. At the same time, not out of crude anti-German sentiment, but because it is right, we must tell Germany that it does what the Commission of the European Union has said it is doing, and that I quote, 'to direct strategic priorities towards strengthening domestic demand', otherwise development, solidarity and European cohesion will not be achieved. In addition, some measures must be introduced for reforms. I insist on this point, Mr President: let us see in our Presidency whether the fiscal capacity, the capacity for autonomous resources of the euro area, which can be aimed at achieving and implementing profound and serious reforms, is actually translated into practice; otherwise, it is difficult to support without the consent of the citizens. With regard to our six-month Presidency, I appreciated the talk on the Mediterranean: in my opinion, we should basically propose two issues, as well as the sharpest change for sustainable development. With regard to the reform of the European institutions, for example, can the President of the Italian Council of Ministers be asked to make sure that he is the protagonist in Europe - something that seems to go against his interests, but is not so - in the proposal to apply the intergovernmental method in foreign and security policy, but a unitary one? Can the President of the Italian Council of Ministers, on this level, give real importance to Italy's action as a protagonist in order to change Europe and make it take a step forward? Finally, there is an opportunity to be seized in the next European elections: the opportunity for families and European parties to present each with a programme and with a candidate for the Presidency. Is that a small sign? Yes, but politics enters the European institutions: it is a way to defeat populism, but not in general. I agree, in fact, that there are populisms that indicate elements that do not go and help us to correct them; There are others, however, who are reactionary and must be defeated. This small step can help us to go in that direction, while there is another step that could be taken, and that is Italy's turn, since it has the presidency. We will do everything, but I do not think there is a European political force that will have an absolute majority: after the elections, choosing who will be the candidate for the Presidency involves a reading of the political results and an alliance. On this, and only on this, Barbara Spinelli was right for me today in the article that he published "La Repubblica". These must be transparent measures and procedures, not otherwise, and cannot therefore be entrusted solely to the President of the European Council. I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union can play a role and achieve this. On this basis and with these convictions, I would like to announce that the PD Group will vote in favour of this motion, not only for the European Council of tomorrow and tomorrow, but for the European project that the Government has presented to us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Ironic applause from the Senators of the M5S Group, standing up. Senator Lucidi shows a]] iPad with the words: All Renzians, now!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u88	Why? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). On a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I do not know whether I have to refer to Article 103 of the Rules of Procedure on formal coordination, which, however, applies to draft laws, or to Article 97 on inproposability and inadmissibility. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's your choice. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I would say that we can use both, Mr President, there is a wide choice. The motion for a majority resolution No 1, in fact, states "The Senate, heard the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the Brussels European Council of 20 and 21 March 2014 (...) approves them. If we refer to Article 103, then we must write: The Senate, do not hear the communications of the President of the Council...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u89	[[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] In fact, the motion for a resolution was tabled on 18, i.e. yesterday. It is okay to have confidence in the President-in-Office of the Council in a box, but to see what he would have said seems difficult to me. You will tell me that this practice, as the Secretary-General is suggesting, but I will tell you. [[Laughter. Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] , has been introduced by Senator Calderoli in the past, and has been applied several times.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u90	That is what I wanted to say: they tell me that you introduced this practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u91	[[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But you see, Mr. President, as long as the "warmer" makes you one of the opposition to drive the government home, it's one thing; when the "warmer" makes you the majority to carry out a government, my children, you are messed up. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Marcucci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u92	We take note of your speech, but as the practice is established, we consider your objection exceeded. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta to vote by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator De Petris, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 3 by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. MARTON (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Marton, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Girotto and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-213.ana.u94	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 20 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 2.05 p.m.
