ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 471, 596 and 730.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u9	Mr President, we are firmly in favour of this bill, not least because it was our Group that wanted it to be. As has been said yesterday, when I complained in the Commission that our Group's draft laws were not being framed, it was pointed out that we had had the draft law on the abuse of the medical and dental profession. So, you can imagine how much satisfaction we have in seeing that, at last, it puts itself into a real epidemic. This is demonstrated by the official data that are given to us and which are published by the EURES Economic and Social Research and the FNOMCeO (which, among other things, sees our colleague, Senator Bianco, as president). The abusive professions in Italy are over 30,000: therefore, there are 30,000 people who, in all fields, carry out abusive professions, want the surveyor, the engineer, the dentist, the auditor, the accountant. What is serious about this data is that 50 percent of us are in the medical profession, so we have about 15,000 people a year who do doctors, but who are not. Of these, the vast majority - two thirds and, therefore, we are talking about 10,000 units - are dentists. I'll let you imagine the damage that comes from abusive practice: damage from an economic point of view, but also damage to health. Let us think of Article 32 of the Constitution, concerning the protection of the health of citizens: you can well imagine that those who abuse a profession such as that of the doctor or dentist, practice it at a lower cost, but the damage that will then arise and that will be borne by the community throughout the life of the individual, are such and many to become unimaginable over time. The statistical data from EURES and the Federation of Medical Orders, of which I told you before, speak of estimates and say that this joke costs us, only for dentists, over a billion not declared, that is a billion turnover that is not declared. The data goes further and tells us, even in percentage, what we are referring to. Of course, there have been a lack of social security payments for over 40 million per year; there are contributions not paid to orders for several million euros; there have also been a lack of IRPEF receipts for over 150 million euros. So, in addition to a loss of income for the State, in a situation where they are the usual ones who continue to pay, the subjects we are talking about work in black and produce, as I said, damage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u10	You should finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u11	Barani (GAL). I'm done, Mr. President. That is why, as a Group, we believe that we have taken a major step forward in incardinating our proposal, which bears my signature and which in the Commission has seen the adoption of a basic text which has then been amended and adopted unanimously. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed from the reports the debate on the draft law to our examination in the Justice Commission. This is a measure that I care about, as a professional in the health sector and as a citizen. I have appreciated the work that has been done in the Commission to improve the basic text and I believe that the current wording represents a good compromise, a good synthesis between the need to punish, with due seriousness, those who abuse a profession and to maintain consistency in our code with regard to the penalties envisaged. Over the two years 2010-2011, of the nearly 3,000 reports made to the judicial authority by the NAS carabinieri for the abuse of professions, those relating to the category of false nurses were more than a third (therefore more than 1,000 complaints are mentioned). As recent surveys also show, in most cases they are women trying to contribute to the family budget. Unfortunately, jobs - as we have seen in recent years - are becoming less and, of course, money too, so we are trying to make ends meet. But all this endangers the lives and health of patients. Those who pretend to be nurses and, without the necessary qualification and skills, perform delicate tasks, even in the operating room, endanger not only patients, but also the Health Service, then forced to pay the damages that those non-professionals do to people. The art of arranging, often praised as a vital characteristic of our country, demonstrates, in the case of those who practise an illegal profession, all its social danger. The state does not at present repress sufficiently and with the necessary severity the abuse of the professions, and the phenomenon of abuse is particularly serious and worrying when it concerns the exercise of the medical professions, since the consequences are directly affecting the health of citizens. In addition to all this, the fact that the economic profit obtained from such an illegal practice makes the current financial penalty completely irrelevant as a deterrent. In many cases, probably not even the maximum economic sanction that this bill provides for is a sufficient deterrent. For this reason, it is necessary to maintain, in addition to the sanction, the prison sentence and not to approve further amendments that reduce the scope and effectiveness of the measure under consideration. Let us remember, in fact, that one of the main reasons why the current rule is ineffective in combating the phenomenon of abuse is precisely the fact that the prison sentence is eluding with the payment of a simple fine. A society that does not severely punish those who, without title and in violation of the norms, carry out an activity for which it is considered necessary a strict path of formation evidently does not consider the merit and professionalism as essential elements for the development of the Country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u13	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, today the draft law amending the penal code on the abuse of the professions comes to the attention of this House. The aim is to protect the general interest so that certain professions, because of their particular characteristics and the competence required for their exercise, are carried out only by those who are provided with the professional standards established by a special qualification issued by the State. For this reason, an amendment to Article 348 of the Criminal Code is proposed, which, in its current wording, presents sanctions that are significantly reduced compared to the social seriousness of the crime under discussion. In particular, if we consider the seriousness of the consequences of the abuse of the medical and health profession in general, we consider that a penalty ranging from EUR 100 to EUR 516 is substantially inadequate and even unfair. On the contrary, it is a real abuse for the victims of this crime, who see the payment of the penalty, when it happens, as a mockery that goes in addition to the damage already received. Therefore, we consider that penalties and sanctions have been tightened, with a view to a substantial increase in the level of deterrent action, a necessary and necessary act. During the examination in the Commission, therefore, we considered it correct to raise the penalty to EUR 50 000, as well as to provide for the publication of the judgment and the confiscation of the equipment and tools used to commit crime. During the examination in the Commission, an amendment was also made to Article 589 of the Criminal Code in the matter of manslaughter resulting from the abuse of the medical and health profession for which a new aggravated hypothesis of crime is now being created. Article 590 of the Criminal Code in the matter of personal injury has also been amended, invoking the penalties provided for in the Code, precisely, for serious and very serious personal injury committed by those who abuse the profession or the art of health. The draft law under consideration provides for imprisonment from six months to two years for serious injuries and from one year and six months to four years for serious injuries. In conclusion, sharing the objective of the bill, we believe that the measure can be even more courageous by affecting the most discussed profiles of professional abuse. Specifically, greater attention should be paid to the implications of this crime in relation to the principle of reserve of law and tax, to the customality or not of the crime, to the distinction between so-called typical professional acts and those which are relatively free. In any case, we generally express a positive opinion on the measure, which we believe is in the right and necessary direction. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u16	Madam President, my remarks go hand in hand with what we have already heard yesterday in the general debate and again this morning and which well support the need to tighten up the effects of Article 348 of the Criminal Code on the offence of abuse of the exercise of a profession. I will not dwell, because it has already been done, on the social and civil significance of a rule aimed at protecting a fundamental function of the State, that is, to guarantee to citizens professional services provided by professionals who meet the requirements of training, competence, legality, transparency and ethical ethics. Yes, also ethical deontological rigor because I recall that Article 348 of the Criminal Code, linked to Article 2226 of the Civil Code, provides for the same professions the obligation to register to albums held by orders and colleges of their respective professions. The more important a state guarantee the more professional services are linked to the concrete and effective requirement of constitutionally protected rights: I am thinking of the protection of health, the protection of the right to defence, justice, information, the protection of services rendered to the business, which is a constitutionally protected asset. I would like to add to the debate a few issues, which I take from an investigation that the National Federation of Medical Surgeons and Dentisters has entrusted in the second half of last year to EURES, which, of course, addressed to the evaluation of the phenomenon of abuse in the medical and dental fields. Some data from the Ministry of the Interior related to all professions. From 2004 to 2012 an average of 673 offences referred to in Article 348 of the Criminal Code are reported, of which 51.4 percent committed in the North, 31.2 percent in the South, 17.8 percent at the Centre. If relative to the resident population, these differences diminish. But the most interesting field is that of abuse in health care. Data collected from 2006 to 2012 by the Carabinieri Antisophistication and Health Unit (NAS) show in the medical field 80% of the abusivism related to the dental profession. Over the past six years, the NAS has carried out 7,745 inspections; 3,601 reports have been made to the judicial authority, 2,422 of which relate to the violation of Article 348 of the Criminal Code; 877 laboratories or studies have been closed and seized. If the data of the Ministry of Health and NAS are crossed, it is noted that abusing health is about 55 percent of the phenomenon as a whole. I make a quick translation, always in numbers, on another side: it is estimated that between 5,000 and 10,000 the abusive exhibitors of the dental profession, and only for this profession the turnover is about 600 million euros (crossing the data of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and of the studies of the sector). This corresponds to an erarial damage, because of course all these situations are of total tax evasion: the erarial damage amounts to 75 million euros per year, while the damage to the pension funds is equal to 17 million euros. Therefore, I appreciate the measure as a whole, which has an important deterrent function; moreover, the whole system seems to me to be very innovative compared to the various previous interventions carried out in this area. I would point out, however, that there is certainly no need to keep a watchful eye on this phenomenon, and prevention is essential in this respect. I am referring to the great field of action of professional bodies and to better cooperation between the judiciary, investigation centres and professional bodies, which - I remember - are spread throughout the territory and have a strong instrument, the disciplinary one, to dissuade and strike a little better than the device, not only those who abuse, but also those who cover and promote abuse.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u17	You should finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u18	WHITE (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President, by expressing my hope that we can talk about it soon in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u19	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u20	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u21	Madam President, thank you, but I do not think I should reply. I have listened with interest to the speeches made, which are almost all adjuvandum, with very few requests for correction. Therefore, I would like to thank you for joining the measure and for the very positive reception of the report that I have presented. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u22	Madam President, the Government has also followed with interest the debate in this House on this measure, which is important because it stems from the perceived inadequacy of the sanctions provided for in the current legislation to combat the phenomenon of professional abuse. This phenomenon is increasingly felt because it is becoming more and more widespread; the report increasingly records cases of doctors, dentists and other professionals who, without qualifications, perform extremely delicate professions, endangering the health and rights of citizens. It is, therefore, a measure which pays particular attention - precisely - to the protection of the health and rights of citizens. With regard to these incidents, the sanctions currently in force appear to be derisory and do not constitute a sufficient deterrent. This legislation, among other things, raises the edittal limits to the maximum, but I remember that it could also be expected to increase them to the minimum. However, it is already significant to increase the maximum from up to six months to up to two years. It is also important - and I would like to stress this - to increase the amount of administrative fines provided for in the abuse of an auxiliary art of the health professions. In fact, in addition to the work of the doctor and the dentist, there is - let us not forget - a whole series of arts auxiliary to the health professions: I think, for example, to the laboratory technician of analysis, to the dental technician, to the optician and the orthopaedic mechanic and to the whole list of activities provided for in Article 99 of the Royal Decree of 27 July 1934, n. 1265. Another significant fact is confiscation. This is an important point because, as has already been pointed out in the speeches in this House, it is a mandatory confiscation which certainly concerns movable property, but which could also be extended to immovable property used in the execution of the crime. It is an effective measure because it is added to the prison sentence allowing to avoid recurrence of the crime, using those tools with which it was put in place. There are a number of amendments that we can think about which go in this direction. The Government's contribution will therefore, as always, be constructive because it is a measure that citizens have been waiting for and asking for for for a long time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u23	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u24	Madam President, I would like to point out that I spoke on the same subject three weeks ago. I do not, therefore, take any time away from this House. I just remember that at the time I withdrew my amendment and turned it into an agenda. The content of the agenda is consistent with the proposed amendment. Since at the time there was a commitment of the Government and the rapporteurs to find a suitable solution, I entrust to the competence and sensitivity of the Government and the rapporteurs, as well as of the entire House, the amendment 1.0.1 to be evaluated with every necessary willingness my request..
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u25	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u26	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u27	Madam President, I am against Amendments Nos 1,100 and 1,101. I am in favour of amendment 1.0.1 with the following rewording to the second paragraph: The third paragraph of Article 123 of the Single Health Law, approved by Royal Decree of 27 July 1934, No 1265, and subsequent amendments, is replaced by the following: "The possession of expired medicines, failures or imperfect drugs in pharmacy is punished with the administrative penalty from 500 to 1,500 euros, if it appears that for the small amount of drugs, the modalities of storage and the total amount of reserves, their destination to trade can be effectively excluded."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u28	Madam President, I am against Amendments 1,100 and 1,101, in accordance with the rapporteur. On Amendment 1.0.1 the opinion supports the rewording of the rapporteur to delete the words from: The following shall be added after the word "dead": "dead" may be used in practice to exclude their destination to trade. I repeat, the opinion is in line with the rapporteur's opinion on all three amendments, based on the appropriate rewording of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u31	WHITE (PD). Madam President, I would like to be able to endorse Amendment 1.0.1 in the new wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u32	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u33	We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u34	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,100 tabled by Senators De Cristofaro and Petraglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 471, 596 and 730 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,101 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 471, 596 and 730 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 471, 596 and 730 president. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, do you accept the rewording of amendment 1.0.1? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u37	Barani (GAL). I would ask you to accept this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1.0.1 (text 2) tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 471, 596 and 730 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u38	Madam President, I would like to make a brief comment on Amendment 2.7. It's... [[Brusio),]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u39	Senator Airola, please allow Mr Mandelli to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u40	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, it is not only Senator Airola who speaks, but also Senators of Mr Mandelli's own Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask the senators behind Senator Mandelli's back to be silent, because otherwise he cannot make his speech. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Stay calm, colleagues. AIROLA (M5S). I'm not happy. I'm not happy, okay? [[Comments. Bursium]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u41	And that actually emerges. Senator Mandelli, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u42	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to speak briefly, also to try to distract the House, which is so active this morning. Amendment 2.7 basically amends Article 102 of the single text of the health laws, which dates back to 1934, and gives the opportunity to practitioners of the professions or health arts, with the clear exclusion of all professionals qualified to prescribe medicines (veterinary doctors, surgeons and dental practitioners), to carry out their activities in pharmacy. They are professions for which you are not entitled to prescription medicines, so there is no danger of confusion about the role they will play in the pharmacy. On the other hand, there will be the possibility of completing that path started by Parliament in 2009 to bring services closer to the citizens, saving costs and helping the state from an economic point of view. It is only a matter of modernising a standard that already exists throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u43	Madam President, Amendment 2.0.4 provides for a stricter sanction of abuse in the field of mediation, which, especially in the real estate sector, in view of the large values involved in the sale of real estate, often results in harmful effects for consumers and citizens. The current sanctions for abuse are very mild, and this amendment tends to introduce more stringent principles. It tends to introduce a criminal sanction in the field of abusing and mediation activities, with particular reference to the real estate world, which is haunted by sellers, mediators, people who think they carry out this activity which, on the other hand, has rules and must be carried out following precise rules: adherence to the chambers of commerce, registration to the books and so on. Therefore, the fight against abuse in this field is absolutely urgent and necessary to ensure the professionalism of real estate operators and to prevent citizens, as often happens in this sector, from being the victim of scams and scams that, given the values in the field, are of significant and significant importance. I therefore hope that Amendment 2.0.4 will be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u44	Madam President, I just wanted to add to Mr Gasparri's explanation of amendment 2.0.4 which is equally important, as compared with amendment 2.0.100 at my first signature, the particular importance, in our view, of including in the case referred to in Article 348 of the Criminal Code also the possibility of mediation by those who are not included in the relevant role. This is because, as we have already pointed out in the general discussion, we believe that those who practice a profession also on the basis of a title obtained, an qualification, an entry, as in this case also for real estate agents in their role, give a guarantee of professionalism: a guarantee, therefore, to exercise the work with a particular diligence and precision. In our view, all consumers are particularly interested in compliance with these rules, which also provide that only and exclusively those who are registered, in this case also the role of real estate agents, are involved in the mediation work. In fact, this is a guarantee that transactions, especially because they involve an exchange of money, a part of important assets, are particularly protected. This too, from the perspective that we continue to support, that obviously the professional who carries out his own activity, who has followed a path, who has made an investment in his own activity, his own professionalism, must also be respected and must not suffer the unfair competition of those who instead practice certain professions, such as that of seeking mediations, in an absolutely amateuristic way, if unfortunately not even in a scam way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u45	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u46	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendment 2.7 when amended as follows: In the first period, after the words: "health arts," add the words: "except the practice of the pharmacy, which cannot be combined with that of other professions or health arts"; in the second period, after the words: "may carry out", replace the following period with the words: "their activity in specific spaces reported to the public within the pharmacy, except for doctors, veterinarians and dental practitioners authorised to prescribe medicines according to the law" The last period remains unchanged. I am against Amendment 2.0.1 and I am against Amendment 2.0.2. On amendment 2.0.4, which is essentially identical to amendment 2.0.100, the opinion is in favour if it is accepted to replace the period after the words "Art. ==References====External links== In Article 8 (2) of Law No 39 of 3 February 1989, insert the word "already" between the words "be" and "betray" and delete the words "three times." If I may be even clearer, I shall read the text of paragraph 2 of Article 8 as it would be reworded: To those who have already incurred the penalty referred to in paragraph 1, even if there has been payment with liberating effect, the penalties provided for in Article 348 of the Criminal Code, as well as Article 2231 of the Civil Code, apply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u49	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Government's opinion is a precedent. DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, thank you also for not embarrassing the government. As far as Amendments 2.7 and 2.0.2 are concerned, at the first signature of Senator Mandelli, I recognise that this issue is of great importance and must be dealt with, because it really needs to be regulated for the safety of citizens and also of operators in the field. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Rules of Procedure are different! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Biasi, as we are in the process of having opinions, please state, otherwise you can speak in an explanation of vote. DE BIASI (PD). Excuse me, Mr President, since we have incardinated a bill to rearrange health professions and the whole pharmaceutical issue, I simply want to ask Senator Mandelli to withdraw these two amendments with the commitment to include them within the draft law that we are discussing in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let's listen first to the government's opinion, then Senator Mandelli will assess your request, Senator De Biasi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u50	Madam President, on Amendment 2.7, I have to say that the rapporteur's proposal for rewording is preferable to the previous text, because it specifies well that the practice of pharmacy cannot be combined with that of other professions or health arts. It is certainly preferable to the original text. I also take note of the comments made by the President of the Health Commission. The government is also following very carefully the bill on the reform of the health professions that it talked about and is open to any solution. Since this is a choice for this House, we are asking for a meeting point between the political forces in this House. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). But what is the opinion? FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. I take note of the situation and I think it is right that the Government should return to the House on this amendment, leaving it to the political forces to decide which of the two avenues they prefer, whether this seat or another. The government is therefore back in the Chamber. [[Senator Palma's comments.]] On the additional amendments, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur, while on the 2.0.4 (text 2), which is identical to amendment 2.0.100, as has been reworded, the Government gives a favourable opinion, thanking indeed for the rewording. Senator Gasparri's considerations are acceptable, because the extent of interest also in terms of assets, especially in the sale of real estate, has significant consequences, so it is right that action should be taken. The choice has been made to punish the relapse, which however is already a significant decision, leaving with administrative sanction the first episode. However, the opinion is favourable, considering the matter to be of considerable importance and worthy of attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u51	I would ask the rapporteur to clarify why the Presidency missed the opinion on the additional amendment 2.0.2 (text 2): is he in favour, therefore in line with that of the representative of the Government? Mr Albertini, rapporteur. Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mandelli, will you maintain Amendment 2.7 or will you accept the proposal made by Senator De Biasi?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u52	Madam President, I believe that it is the subject of moving towards an evolution of society, with regard to two very important issues. The second, in particular, concerns the formulation of medicines, is a major problem. This is a practice that is being carried out every day in hospitals, because every day we need a personalized formulation for patients, with the consequent failure of a drug to meet real needs. If, therefore, President De Biasi formally undertakes before the Senate to take note of a practice that we must put into safety, because the operators of the sector do this every day, and not for themselves, I accept his request; if on Article 102 of the single text of the health laws, referred to in the amending proposal in question, there is awareness that we are going to regulate a situation that, in reality, people have already perceived as changing, as a result of the new evolution of pharmacies, I take note of President De Biasi' commitment to Parliament with regard to both aspects and therefore withdraw amendment 2.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u53	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u56	Mr Fornaro (PD). Madam President, I would like to have the text of the rewording of amendment 2.0.4. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll get you a copy of the text as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u59	ICHINO (SPI). Madam President, in associating myself with my colleague's request to have the text of amendment 2.0.4 (text 2), I would point out, however, that it leaves the area of its own intervention of the measure in question, in order to dispose of a tour of lives in a field, that of real estate mediation, which is not part of the measure. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that we are in this House for competition and opening up access to work when we talk about it "wholesale," but then, "in detail," we are systematically inclined to close, considering that we must "guard the quality of the provision" even at the cost of giving life turns in the sense of inaccessibility of individual production activities of goods and services. This schizophrenia of the legislator's attitude is not conducive to the opening up and flexibility of the labour market. For professions in which the fundamental rights of the person, health or freedom of citizens are not at stake, the general principle must be that of freedom of access, of control of the correctness of behaviour, and if anything of the radiation of those who do not behave correctly. This is a very different logic from that of restricting access to a business. That is why, unless we re-examine the new text of the amendment, my Group will vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u62	ROMANO (PI). Madam President, first I asked for the floor to endorse and support Senator De Biasi's proposal. I thank Senator Mandelli for accepting what he has proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u65	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, for the sake of clarity, the amendments signed by Senator Mandelli were 2.7 and 2.0.2. There was the rapporteur's favourable opinion on both; the government on the first, 2.7, had returned to the Chamber, the second had given its assent to the rapporteur's favourable opinion. I listened to Senator Mandelli's speech and I would like him to clarify - because it was not clear to me - whether he intends to withdraw both amendments or just what he referred to in his speech. Secondly, with reference to Senator Ichino's intervention, I would like to point out that we are intervening on Article 348 of the Criminal Code, which substantially alters the sanctioning aspect for the abuse of a profession, whatever it may be. Amendment 2.0.4, signed by Senators Gasparri and Cardiello, and amendment 2.0.100, signed by Senators Stefani and Bitonci, as then reworded by the rapporteur, who gave a positive opinion, were considered admissible by the Presidency. In fact, in Article 8 of Law No 39 of 1989 there is a clear reference to the abuse of the profession of real estate broker, with specific references both to the first and, mainly, to the second paragraph, that which is the subject of the reformulation, regarding the application of the regulations referred to in Article 348 of the Criminal Code (execution of the profession) to those who exercise the work of real estate broker without being included in the list. There is therefore no problem of eligibility or unevenness by subject matter due to the clear legal framework referred to in Article 8. In the rewording of the rapporteur it was considered to have an impact on Article 8 in order to have a more stringent attitude from the point of view of sanctions; the current discipline provides that the sanction referred to in Article 348 of the penal code, as well as the ancillary discipline referred to in the civil code, can only be taken when the real estate broker for three times is incurred in the administrative sanction. It was felt by the Commission - hence the rapporteur's rewording - that the number of three times was excessive in relation to real estate mediation. We have therefore considered that sanctions should be imposed when the real estate broker has already incurred the administrative penalty and, of course, if he continues illegally in his work as a mediator without being included in the list, he deserves a penalty of a criminal nature at the time when he should repeat these behaviors. There is therefore no problem of consistency in the matter, except for the decisions which its political group intends to take on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u66	On this point, I would like to confirm what President Palma has just said, highlighting what the Presidency has decided to do, both at the Commission stage, in which the amendments under consideration have been assessed and deemed admissible, and in the House's, where amendments 2.0.4 and 2.0.100 have been considered admissible, since they, while extending the scope of the draft law to mediation, nevertheless concern the penalty consequences to be reconnected to the exercise of regulated activity through the establishment of a role and the provision of appropriate supervisory mechanisms. The object of the bill is that of sanctionability, and therefore the amendment is admissible. ICHINO (SPI). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Ichino, you may speak later in an explanation of vote. Before giving the floor to the representative of the Government, who has asked to speak, I would like to ask Senator Mandelli: I would like to know whether the announcement of withdrawal concerns amendment 2.7 or even amendment 2.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u67	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2.0.2 but with regard to Amendment 2.7, taking into account the rapporteur's favourable opinion, I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak because I want to take up the point made by Senator Ichino, whom I thank: the Government has also been questioned on this point and I must say that we have overcome the problem. I draw on what President Palma said, which I agree with. One thing, in fact, is to open the debate on the liberal professions and whether or not they need a rating: this is certainly a more general speech, but it is not on the agenda. The ratio of the draft law under consideration is to regulate and regulate competition. So you want to punish those who practice a profession without the required rating. When this amendment was tabled in the Commission - the President and the distinguished members of the Commission will remember it better than I do - we wondered whether the real estate brokers were required to register. We have taken this path, which is not only reasonable, but it is appropriate from the legal point of view, asking whether it is a profession that requires certification. We have responded positively to this question by checking it out. We have also asked for further consideration as a Government: in this regard I found a note, in the file relating to the draft law in question, aimed precisely at requesting such verification. So, we came to the conclusion that the practice of the profession of real estate broker requires registration with the Chamber of Commerce: therefore, a check is made on the requirements and the securities, precisely because a passage to the Chamber of Commerce is expected. It is therefore part of the regulation of competition - which must be regulated - a rule that sanctions those who exercise that profession without having the necessary title and qualification. We have drawn this conclusion and for this reason the Government has expressed a favourable opinion on this, because it believes it is right to punish those who practice this profession without having a title, when a title is provided by law, so much so that there is registration in the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u69	Senator Mandelli, I ask you to be clear. His statement contradicts his previous statement, in which he announced the withdrawal of amendment 2.7. Do you confirm that you intend to withdraw Amendment 2.0.2 and that you insist on voting on Amendment 2.7?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u70	Mr President, there has been a great deal of confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u71	That's right, we have to tidy up our work. We are examining Amendment 2.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u72	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Since there has been a great deal of confusion and turbulence in this House, I have taken note of the authoritative opinions of President Palma and the President of the Health and Health Commission, Mr De Biasi, and I withdraw both amendments, with the agreement that both are dealt with in accordance with what has been said here, because otherwise there is a risk of a general disaster instead of resolving people's problems. DE BIASI (PD). Promise! MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). The important thing is that, after the authoritative opinion of President Palma, after the authoritative opinion of President De Biasi, these are the founding points of the breakup that we will vote on soon.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u75	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. Forgive me, but in fact, pursuant to Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure, in any case of voting irregularities, the President, having appreciated the circumstances, can cancel them and arrange for them to be renewed immediately. So, if we first noticed that there is someone who commits irregularities - which I would call illegality - by voting instead of someone else, it would be appropriate to take it out on these gentlemen. So it is obvious that Mr Airola then raises his voice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u76	Appreciate the circumstances, it was not done. Amendment 2.7 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 471, 596 and 730 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senators Crosio and Stefani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 471, 596 and 730 president. Amendment 2.0.2 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.4 which is essentially identical to Amendment 2.0.100, of which a rewording has been proposed by the rapporteur, of which I read, as Senator Ichino had asked: In Article 8 (2) of Law No 39 of 3 February 1989, insert the word "already" between the words "be" and "betray" and delete the words: "three times."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u79	ICHINO (SPI). Madam President, with regard to this amendment, I would like to make it clear that we have not done anything about its inadmissibility, so there has been no mention of the work of the Presidency. We only make it a matter of merit, noting that in 2011 the Senate, as well as the House, approved a rule that abolished all restrictions on access to professional activities and trades, except organic reform within one year of the matter. That fundamental tendency to open up to competition expressed our acceptance of the European Union's call to reduce the snares that surround our subordinate labour market, but also that of self-employment. Now, the amendment that we are now called upon to vote has a diametrically opposite sign, namely that of a round of lives and a worsening of a ban through the appesting of the sanction; it goes in the direction of diametrically opposed to that general orientation which we gave ourselves three years ago. And it is not a choice that we make in the context of an organic restructuring of the discipline of the matter; it is the pure and simple acceptance of the corporate instance of a small group of insiders that wants to reduce and penalize the competition from the outsiders. This is a mistake that we repeatedly make when dealing with individual activities, except then to declare ourselves in favour of greater flexibility, greater competition when we talk about it wholesale. For this reason, the Civic Choice Group will vote against this amendment, with the hope that a minimum of coherence from all the other Groups, except of course those that in 2011 decided against this general choice, will also lead others to vote against it. [[Senator Dalla Zuanna's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u80	I would ask Senator Gasparri if he accepts the proposal for reformulation put forward by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u81	Mr President, of course I would have preferred a favourable opinion on the original text of the amendment. I note, given the complexity of the subject, that the rapporteur's proposal, his words and those of the Undersecretary Ferri, who also respond to these last exceptions that we have heard, are positive. Therefore, I accept this hypothesis as a subordinate, because of a factual situation that is formed in the Assemblies that are a place where mediation points are discussed and found. I would like to make a brief comment on what I have heard. Senator Ichino, the liberal principles of competition are based on rules: there is nothing liberal and European in encouraging abuse in all fields (from the real estate sector, to pharmacies to others), because the basis of a liberal culture is that we must have rules that - instead - are not respected today. And the Europe you referred to is one which, in many areas, is not protecting Europe's professions, skills and productions. You have an abstract vision, like that - perhaps - of Senator Monti. And perhaps Europe is gathering so little support, even in electoral trials, for the mistakes it makes and for the supporters it has. We want the freedom of competition and, precisely for this reason, we want to protect consumers and professionalism. What we are discussing here is precisely this, in the real estate field as in many other fields. Otherwise, in fact, abstract declamations are being made, and I do not think that consensus is comforting you. Take a bath of reality in the life of the country: we need fewer rules, but some certainties are indispensable. If you want to sponsor the abusers of all kinds, expose the country to a serious risk. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u82	Senator Stefani, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u83	Mr President, unfortunately, reluctantly, we are forced to accept the proposal for reformulation, if only in an improved light of current legislation. We would like to point out that with the rule, as revised, following the rapporteur's rewording, the contestation of the crime will only be when at least an administrative penalty has been imposed. Unfortunately, it has been pointed out that in the sector, at times, they have not even followed the first complaints and, therefore, it is also difficult for the first administrative sanctions to be imposed. But not only that: let's also say that if there are those who have followed the deal and have achieved a commission in making a mediation, even once, in our opinion, often considered the errors and consequences that may be due to these behaviors, already in itself would have created a serious damage to society. It would therefore have been better for us to consider the possibility of contesting the criminal case immediately. However, it can be thought that, at least, this reformulation has met the needs of consumers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u86	CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to accept the proposal for a rewording, as it has been put forward. I would like to say to Senator Ichino that the bill that bears my signature, as President Palma has specified, concerns the tightening of the penalty for the abusive exercise of the profession. If he goes to look at the data - he is an excellent university professor, as well as an excellent scientist on the subject of work - in this category there are 30,000 agents who employ 250,000 workers and there is a flood of evasion for about 450 million euros. This is the reality of the broker real estate agents. I therefore hope that you will reconsider what you have said and that you will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u87	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.4 (text 2) which is identical to Amendment 2.0.100 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 2.0.4 (text 2), tabled by Senators Gasparri and Cardiello, identical to amendment 2.0.100 (text 2), tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u88	On behalf of the whole Senate I greet the delegation of the Trentino family of Farroupilha, composed of descendants of Trentino and Venetian immigrants in the State of Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u89	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u92	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I rise to announce the vote in favour of our Group, which, by paraphrasing Vittorio Alfieri's letter, wanted to, always and very strongly wanted this bill to be approved, incardinated in the Chamber and become law, and not only on economic issues, which could bring hundreds of millions, if not even a billion, into the state coffers by this abuse of the professions. Finally, Senator Cardiello wanted to emphasize how important is also the abuse in the real estate sector, as well as that in the health and dental field. The issue of the abuse of the professions presents an increasing danger, also taking into account the possibilities offered by the new and advanced technologies, whose use in a distorted way, by real scammers, does not allow the users to distinguish the real professionalism from the fictional ones and only supposed. In the course of the general discussion - also Senator Bianco has taken it up again - the investigation entrusted to EURES by the National Federation of Medical Surgeons and Dentistors' Orders and how valuable is also from the numerical and statistical point of view an intervention: tens of thousands of those who practice abusive professions, and fifty percent of them in the field of health, medical and nursing. Senator Mandelli withdrew two important amendments. Senator Mandelli, you must know that Sabin, when he learned that his vaccine had to be registered, who - let's remember - saved so many lives, asked: How long is it gonna take? He was told: "A few weeks". He said, "I can't afford it. I don't want to record it. It should be given to the population immediately. Therefore, we too had to have the courage to put those measures into this measure immediately because it is the citizen who wants exactly what was provided for in those two amendments. We hope that the Health Commission will make rapid and not as has been the case with the Commission of Inquiry into health errors and waste, which for more than a year has been debating and fails to bring a measure into this House to get it approved, and also to allow the Senate to monitor what is happening in the health field with the powers of the judicial authority. This is an intervention by the legislator to protect the citizens, aimed at reducing the spread of the disdainable abuse of the professions. It therefore seems indispensable and no longer transferable. Among the draft laws there was also one of the undersigned, more binding on health matters, which I believe deserves all considerations and evaluations. Of course, we thank President Palma and the rapporteur Mr Albertini for the work he has done and for having been able to grasp in this measure what was the essence of it, to promote its unanimous approval. They have succeeded, and we thank them for that, because the measure applies Article 32 of the Constitution in the field of health and health protection cannot be just one part of it, but it must be shared by the whole House, and that is what we have managed to do. It's not a miracle. These results are also taken home when you work well and seriously.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u95	BENCINI (Mixed). Madam President, I repeat what has already been said in the general debate, namely that the corrections made to the draft law in the vote are certainly necessary in order to ensure that the abuse of the professions fails, recognizing the value of those who, in fact, have followed the studies necessary to pursue a profession. As a result, I am voting in favour of the Mixed and Mixed SEL Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u98	MARINELLO (NCD). Madam President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission for their work, Mr Palma and Mr Albertini, for having managed to bring to the attention of the House, among other things, mediation work which is certainly not easy but of which we take the results today, a bill amending Article 348 of the Criminal Code in the matter of the abuse of the profession expected, much awaited by the groups concerned. It is because, which cannot escape the attention of the House, such a measure is not only about the interests of those who may yet appear to be distorted in the guilds, i.e. those professions or activities which come from an ancient past, far away, glorious and which today, according to some, appear anachronistic, obsolete and must be modernised. This is certainly a distorted vision and it is for many reasons. I'll just mention one. Those professions, that appear far from reality, are those that have guaranteed a uniqueness and a specificity to our country, that have contributed to make it great in all the moments of its history, its political and social history, and that have guaranteed a series of essential services integrating and, sometimes, replacing, the reduced capacities of public systems. This applies to all professions, but particularly to health professions. My previous colleagues (among them, I would like to remind Senator Barani) have rightly highlighted the economic aspect. In fact, there is no doubt that the abuse of the profession constitutes, among other things, a serious economic loss for the country because it essentially constitutes tax evasion and contributory evasion. But that's not the theme yet. The question is that often, almost always (I would say, always) through the abusive exercise of the professions, in particular the health professions, there are a series of bad practices that then see the last users, that is, the citizens, be the real victim. This is unacceptable in any case and place, this is unacceptable especially when human health is compromised. And if the value, the protection of human health are considered by us to be intangible and indispensable constitutional rights, politics has nothing but to be consequential and to move forward on this path. The amendment of Article 348 of the Criminal Code is an issue that has also been addressed in other legislation. I too, in my previous parliamentary experience, have repeatedly presented draft legislation on this subject, but they have been blocked for a number of reasons and circumstances and - why not? - also because of a harmful view of the matter. Let us also say that a series of new champions of liberalism have always been opposed, precisely because of prejudice and sometimes also because of interest, to what represents the world of professions and sometimes they have also tried to disrupt its system, precisely because - as they claim - of greater liberalization and openness, but - I say - as a consequence of an excessively simplistic, muddled vision that confuses freedom with anarchy and health practices with something else, often endangering - as I have already pointed out - human life. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marinello, please finish your speech. MARINELLO (NCD). This battle was waged by freelance professionals and some of their associations (I refer, for example, to the National Association of Italian dentists), often in solitude, with their own pockets and heads high, not subjecting even to pressures and intimidation. Today we will vote with the broadest possible consensus on this measure and I hope that it will do the same to the other branch of Parliament, to provide a response that the country has been waiting for for many years. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u101	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, as we have already said in general debate, our vote on the measure will be in favour, also in the amended text, first by the Commission and then in this House. I think it is right to thank the rapporteur, Senator Albertini, for the work he has done and the balance with which he has dealt with the various issues. It is also a matter of satisfaction that this House and the parliamentary committees adopt draft legislation when there is a unanimous desire to achieve an objective, regardless of political orientations or anything else. And on this issue, all political forces have found their support. It is good to point out those measures on which there are no ideologies because we are actually paying attention to the pursuit of the goal. In this case, the objective is the fight against abuse, which must still be pursued, because it is never the time to lower the guard. As we have already pointed out in general discussion, the fight against abuse is not only aimed at protecting those belonging to certain orders: we are not doing corporatism. In fact, you are looking precisely at the interest of the final consumer, of the person who addresses a professional, often in a situation of difficulty and when he needs to solve a problem. Well, the state must ensure that that professional is a serious, diligent and capable person. The fact of providing for heavy sanctions, such as foreshadowing a crime hypothesis (as in this case) aggravated by the previous situation, is a way for the State to put stakes and try to put, as it were, on the market professionals who carry out their activities in a perfectly legal way, perhaps at the end of a training course (study or professional), so that the consumer can be faced with a chosen professional. It is often said that the market makes selection. Sometimes, however, it is not easy for the consumer and for the person who is in a difficult situation to have the choice. It is right that we have the opportunity to choose, but this must take place in the ranks of people who already have a background and the prerequisites to be considered diligent and capable. It is possible to think that in some cases a professional, even if not registered, has special talents. It may happen that there is a talented person who may have a particular predisposition for a subject, but the fact that he has not made that training course and that he has not had the ratings means that he is put on the market anyway and that his performance and his work are offered to people without there being any possibility of verification. The consumer does not have the opportunity, when he is in difficulty, to discern who is the good one, who is the less good one and who has the magic in his codes. Unfortunately, sometimes you realize this to deal already done. I therefore believe that it is really essential to continue in a logic of preservation of what are orders, albums and roles. This is so that a prior check is made of the professional ability to ensure that the professional who goes to practice his profession is at least prepared. We will therefore vote in favour of this measure, although we would have preferred a more decisive and rigorous solution on the mediator side. We are sure, however, that this measure is a first step towards continuing the fight against abuse. [[Applause from Senator Munerato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u104	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, I am voting in favour of this measure by my Group, although I would like to express a double regret both for the inclusion of an additional article on which my Group voted against and for the inclusion, which I do not share personally, of something that has nothing to do with the health professions. A change in the title of the draft law would also be necessary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The title will be amended. WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). I also agree with what Senator Ichino said earlier: we are all good at talking about competition, but then, with the excuse or noble intention of protecting consumers, we risk in the end actually harming them. However, I believe that the measure as a whole is acceptable. I too supported it in the Health Commission, and I therefore confirm my Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Silvestri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u107	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I declare the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour of the measure, for the reasons already set out. Therefore, since I do not want to be verbose, my speech will last a few more seconds. We share a tendingly stricter sanctioning attitude towards those who abuse a profession, also approving the additional measures that have been introduced, confiscation and other administrative measures, in addition to those strictly criminal ones. I would like to make a reference to the debate which last took place in this House in relation to the approved amendment that penalises those who carry out real estate mediation operations without being entered in the appropriate registers. I frankly believe that the position of Senator Ichino and the Group to which he belongs - which, in my opinion, continue to support a theoretical idea of liberalism, based on extreme competition as a criterion for protecting the market and achieving the best conditions for society - in this case is really out of place. Here we are talking about the possibility of sanctioning those who carry out an activity, which is certainly delicate in the field of the market, the broker of real estate; an activity that does not involve special qualifications in terms of professional, intellectual or anything else. If on the altar of liberalism brought to the extreme we had to allow basically that this type of activity was conducted by anyone, without any kind of preparation, who, in our opinion, would make the most of it would not be so much the category of real estate brokers registered in the chambers of commerce, and who therefore followed a course of preparation, but ultimately, citizens, consumers, those who come into contact with these mediators. They, let us remember, for the mere fact that they have brought the supply and demand into contact, according to the case law, have a right to commission, which is then the subject on which most of the litigation in the courts develops. Ensuring that those who carry out that type of activity have sufficient preparation attested by having followed a course that allowed them to register in the Chamber of Commerce registers is a matter of maximum reasonableness, aimed mainly at the protection of the citizen, who may, for example, have to deal with a real estate broker not even knowing that the person who is in front of him the next day can ask for a commission, activating all the legal instruments I have spoken of. Leaving out the interests of the category, not intervening is not in the collective interest. I therefore declare our support for the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u110	CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the ratio of the bill that bears my signature is to increase the penalty for those who, under Article 348 of the Criminal Code, exercise an abusive profession. It is not just a health profession, because the measure also concerns engineers, lawyers, notaries and veterinarians. Therefore, it is a profession identified as part of the professional activities carried out by freelancers. The ratio of this measure - which in the other legislature passed the stage of examination in the Commission and arrived in this Chamber, where a parliamentary group asked for its withdrawal, because the tightening of penalties was excessive, even proposing to decriminalize the case to administrative illegality - is first of all to protect not the professions, the categories, but the citizens, those who are weaker at the time when, for example, an act is taken by a notary who is not entitled; that of protecting a citizen who goes from a dental technician who is not a dentist; that of protecting the citizen who goes to a lawyer who is a practitioner. We must protect citizens first of all from the daily scams carried out by those who abuse them. Well, the Commission has voted in favour of all the groups, because we have managed to win a battle that, as Mr Marinello said, has been dragging for too many years. It has been too long since this measure has been in Parliament's classrooms. I carry out the work of lawyer, and daily in the courtrooms the first to be affected by this rule of the penal code that provided for the sentence of imprisonment up to six months or the penalty of fine up to 500 euros, were precisely the citizens. The same magistrates sometimes find themselves in difficulty, because at the time when a person exercises abusively they can choose with alternative rite the penalty of imprisonment or that of fine. Almost always, indeed always, the perpetrator, choosing the penalty of the fine, was sentenced to the payment of 500 euros of fine; he paid it and was seized the study. The intervention in this matter, with the amendment of this rule, provides first of all for the strengthening of the sentence, which is extended to two years of imprisonment. My bill even provided for imprisonment from one to three years; those who work in courtrooms know well that magistrates often, up to two years, impose suspension of the sentence. This means that those who abuse the profession do not go to prison. So, by cutting the penalty for up to two years and increasing the fine from 10,000 to 50,000 euros, I think we have given a strong signal to those who criminalize abusively. The most important prediction is the confiscation of the property and the instrumental equipment, as the abusive professional who dealt the penalty was seized the study, and the next day he returned and continued to work and to carry out the profession abusively. Therefore, the confiscation of the property registered to him and of the instrumental goods I believe are the fundamental aspect of the tightening of the sentence, that is, the putting of hands in the pockets of the abusive professional criminal. So we have dealt with an important measure, and I am glad that the vote is in favour of it by all the groups. As for the issue of real estate agencies, I wanted to add that these people regularly pay taxes. Therefore, it is also a fight against the submerged and against those who do not pay taxes. The real estate agencies are 30,000 and the employees are 250,000, and there is a total of 450 million euros. So, we would have given the shadows no strength if the amendment had not been approved by me and Senator Gasparri. Therefore, the Forza Italia Group votes in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u113	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, a few words to motivate the Group of the Party of European Socialists to vote in favour of this measure. We believe that the Commission has done a good job of identifying the right balance between different points of view and also between different characteristics, between different interests that were at stake within a measure of this kind. I think it is very important that we have come to amend Article 348 of the Criminal Code by raising the penalty so that we actually have a strong deterrent against those who abuse the professions. I would like to remind you that in the wording that we have adopted this no longer exclusively concerns, at least for this part, the health professions, but any profession, so defined, for which a qualification is provided. I believe that we have done well to strengthen much the aspect of the economic sanction, although we have substantially increased the penalty, because this measure must also be included in an overall reasoning, which has taken place in this House in recent weeks and months, of identifying the penalty of imprisonment only as a penalty among others, a penalty not necessary for any kind of conduct considered illegal. I would also like to stress the inclusion in the measure, in particular in Article 348 of the Criminal Code, the confiscation of equipment and instruments used, which, as has already been mentioned, is a concrete and effective operational element in order to avoid the perpetuation of criminal behaviour. Just as it is very significant, even if it has been less cited, the amendment to Article 589 of the Criminal Code, so, in this case, in the abuse of the health profession, if there is serious damage, serious injury or even murder, this element is considered an assault. I should like to conclude by making a more general point. Even in the debate in this House today we have addressed the very interesting issue of the relationship between the interests of particular categories and the interests of the State. It has just been recalled that our people have a history of ancient guilds and, precisely for this reason, our national history is studded in its path by particularistic and corporatistic tensions and tendencies. However, if it is true that that "particulare" of which Francesco Guicciardini spoke as a national drive, in the civil community can be modified and transformed into an instrument at the service of a general cause, the work of finding equilibrium that we have tried to carry out on this specific theme goes in this direction. Direction that has been indicated to us starting from the interpretation referred to in the well-known judgment of the Court of Cassation of 23 May 2012 on the abusive exercise of the professions, emphasizing that the interest that is protected when it hits the abusive exercise of the health professions must not be understood that of the guilds and categories protected by a skill, but that of the individual citizens users and that of the State, that when it decides that for certain particular professions it is necessary an approval establishes rules that must be respected. It is therefore a measure that goes in the direction not only of greater protection of the rights of users citizens, but also of greater respect for the principle of legality, a principle which in our country it is always good to reiterate the need for greater attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, the students of the Centre for Vocational Training in Lancenigo di Villorba, in the province of Treviso, to whom I address the general greeting of the Assembly, are present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u115	We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1, which has already been distributed and which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u116	Madam President, the proposal only concerns the title, so I do not need to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u117	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1. It's approved. We shall then proceed to the final vote on the measure. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of bill No 471, in the amended text, with the following title: Amendments to Articles 348, 589 and 590 of the Criminal Code as well as Articles 123 and 141 of the single text of the health laws referred to in Royal Decree No 1265 of 27 July 1934, as well as Article 8 of Law No 39 of 3 February 1989 on the abuse of a profession and professional obligations, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorised to make any further changes in formal coordination which may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 596 and 730.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u118	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1315. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u119	Madam President, the Senate is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying a 2012 Agreement aimed at creating the functional block of Blue Med airspace between Italy, the Republic of Cyprus, Greece and Malta. The Agreement provides for the launch, within the European Union, of enhanced cooperation, in line with the objectives of the legislation of the so-called Single European Sky, for harmonisation of European air traffic management, with particular reference to strengthening synergies in the field of services and air navigation. Let me point out that this measure is all the more urgent because its approval would allow to block that infringement procedure initiated against our country precisely because of the failure to ratify the Agreement. Community legislation on the single European sky explicitly provided for the implementation by Member States of functional airspace blocks, i.e. air space of responsibility between two or more States, in which aircraft were operated in an operational manner independent of national borders. The Blue Med FAB, referred to in the agreement under consideration, promoted and coordinated by the National Flight Assistance Agency, with the funding of the European Commission, aims to facilitate the achievement of optimal levels of capacity, efficiency and provision of services to navigation in airspace related to the signatory countries (which, I repeat, are Italy, Cyprus, Greece and Malta). This results in an effective and objective improvement of current safety levels. The Agreement contains strategic guidelines for defining research activities and areas, exchange of experience and joint management of programmes that the Parties undertake to pursue, including relations of coordination and cooperation between civilian and military entities. More in detail, the agreement consists of 38 articles and an annex containing the list of national supervisory authorities concerned (for Italy, ENAC). The text specifies how the requirements of sovereignty, security and national defence of States will continue to exist and apply. The Agreement also specifies the commitments which States are required to take in terms of cooperation and activation of implementing measures and which concern, inter alia, the organisation of airspace, traffic management, cooperation between civilians and military, regulatory supervision, navigation and surveillance, aeronautical information and meteorology. As you can see, there is an overall fabric of commitment to harmonise national rules and procedures for safety management and also for tariffs between these countries. A Blue Med Government Council is established, consisting of members chosen as national representatives, who can carry out joint decision-making functions between the four countries for the implementation of the operation and the further development of the Agreement. This body is supported by a Civil and Military Coordination Committee, a Committee of National Supervisory Authorities and a Committee of Air Navigation Service Providers, as a function of technical assistance. Other rules are laid down with regard to emergency management (Article 23), search and relief for reference civil liability. Other Member States, in accordance with Article 28, as well as Blue Med partners, will also be able to access the Agreement, which is of some importance, in accordance with Article 34. The draft law ratifying the Agreement shall consist of four articles authorising ratification, order of implementation, financial provisions and entry into force. The Agreement, in addition to being fully consistent with the rules of Community law, does not present any aspects of incompatibility with other international obligations and, as specified in Article 3, the burdens arising from the implementation of the Agreement provide the resources of ENAC and ENAV. These resources are allocated to ENAC and ENAV to existing legislation. Only in the case provided for in Article 33 of the Agreement, i.e. the use of possible arbitration procedures, could additional burdens be imposed, however at the moment unpredictable and not determinable ex ante. These are the reasons why, after obtaining the prescribed opinions, the Commission suggests to the Assembly a swift approval of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u120	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u121	Madam President, I would simply like to ask the Government for some clarification regarding the participation of the Republic of Cyprus: in particular, if this participation continues to represent virtually the entire territory of the island of Cyprus or if, on the Cyprus issue, we once again want to lay a veil of silence and impenetrable blanket. In fact, if we were to continue to recognize and grant to the Republic of Cyprus, even from the point of view of overflight rights, figures such as those envisaged, as if virtually the same occupied the entire Cypriot territory, we would perpetuate once again the misunderstanding on which the affair has been feeding for decades. There is, in fact, a large area of the island of Cyprus that is not in the substantial availability of the Republic of Cyprus, but in the substantial availability of another Republic, which is recognized in another Government and with another substantial population, also with other international references. There is, however, a part that ultimately absorbs all the resources, including European resources, of UNESCO and other international organisations, depriving the population of the other area of the opportunity to benefit from these resources and fueling a situation of conflict and misunderstanding in international relations, on which we have never had the capacity to intervene adequately to seek to heal this fracture and to have a truly comprehensive reference of that island in the European context and in the context of international agreements. I would therefore be grateful to the Government if it could provide me with clarification of the air spaces on which rights are granted to the Republic of Cyprus, in particular if they are those of the whole island or only those of the part which, basically and in fact, corresponds to the Republic of Cyprus, and to what are, above all, the intentions of our Executive in continuing not to take note of an existing situation on that island by continuing to conclude treaties with a Republic which - I repeat - does not have the control of the whole island. Apart from the international community, I believe that, as an area as sensitive to us as the Mediterranean area, it is time to put our hands on this misunderstanding by trying to achieve an overall solution that makes this paradoxical situation a normal situation. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]] President. - The debate is closed. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u122	Mr President, the problem posed by Senator D'Alì has to some extent gone through the work of the Commission. I have the feeling that with regard to airspace, i.e. the subject of the Agreement, the expression 'Republic of Cyprus' should be understood, in order to use the lexicon of my colleague, Mr D'Ali, from a substantive point of view. On the other hand, as far as the wider spectrum is concerned, the Cyprus question of land, air and sky, I will listen very carefully to the considerations that the Government will make, but I have the impression that it is all in all about the European Union and its relationship with Cyprus. As far as my colleague, Senator D'Ali, is concerned about the issue of airspace, I can certainly reassure him. As far as the question is concerned whether, with regard to the Cyprus question, the European road which led to the accession of Cyprus is wrong without formally clarifying what D'Alì considers to be a substantial relationship, I have the impression that this is a well-placed issue, but it is essentially unrelated to the Agreement to our attention. That's all I'm gonna say, and I'm gonna listen to the government about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u123	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u124	Mr President, the Government wishes to begin by thanking the Senate Assembly for the prompt examination of the draft law ratifying this Agreement, which was only examined yesterday by the Foreign Affairs Committee. As the rapporteur, Mr Compagna, has already said, we are faced with one of those situations which are not infrequent, but rather paradoxical: first our country took over the leadership of the initiative and then it was the last to complete the preparatory actions to the realization of the common space. The initiative is from 2008: we have promoted it and guided it and then, among the contractors of this enhanced cooperation we are the last to proceed with the instruments of appropriate ratification. This led, as Senator Compagna recalled, to the opening of an infringement procedure, that an early ratification of this agreement by the two Chambers could close in advance. I therefore thank the Senate for the prompt examination of the bill, carried out within 24 hours. With reference to Senator D'Alì's observations, I agree exactly with the system proposed by Senator Compagna. This is an agreement, within the framework of the European Union, which we do with the legitimate authorities of Cyprus, that is, with the contracting government of the membership agreement with the European Union and which is our partner. I share Senator D'Ali's concern about a negotiation that has been stalled for a long time, but this does not concern and cannot concern a unilateral or bilateral initiative of our Government and does not concern - alas - only the European Union: as you know, among the most authoritative attempts in this respect one of the last has been made in the context of the United Nations, with the authoritative mediation of its Secretary-General and with a referendum on a plan, which has not resulted in the hoped-for results. I also agree that the substantial stalemate in the Cyprus negotiations has also led to further complications in the overall relationship between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey, as the failure to resolve the Cyprus dispute is one of the main reasons for the good relations between the European Union as a whole and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. We will not fail to continue to exert our pressure because, as a Mediterranean country, we are perhaps more attentive than others to the fact that in this sea, which has been given too many years, is resolved positively, so that, by resolving it positively, this can also help to continue a fruitful relationship with Turkey, which sees in this unresolved issue one of the major obstacles in the dialogue with Brussels and with all of us. Thank you again for your attention. The Government hopes that the Senate House will unanimously decide on the ratification of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u125	I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u128	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, precisely because of the presence of the Government in this House, while we are certainly in favour of this agreement, we want to emphasise something that Secretary Pistelli has not highlighted. In the Commission, public works, communications we held a long discussion on the privatisation of ENAV. It is precisely in that debate that we have seen a critical issue with regard to the passage we are making today: within the Single European Sky there will be other rules, other rules, other more effective visions regarding airspace, and what does this Government do instead? He went to privatise the ENAV before arriving at these agreements, for a simple reason: just to cash in. We give 49 percent of ENAV into private hands before concluding this important agreement. Among other things, we had also made proposals in the Commission, in particular that of a possible merger - and here there was a fairly cross-cutting agreement - between ENAC and ENAV, before the eventual privatisation of the entity that would emerge from it. Among other things, there is also a strong criticality: having created the Transport Regulatory Authority, this should be more and more functional to an organic management of the entire transport system of the Country, while all these actions that the Government wants to make are exactly in contrast to this objective. I wouldn't want to go and put my finger in the plague, because someone probably didn't like the fact that yet another authority has been created within our country (perhaps one of the few actually important), namely that of the regulation of transport, and we have witnessed debates that have led even to delirium. Having said that, I repeat that we are in favour of this agreement, because we believe it to be futuristic and important. We want to stress, and we continue to do so, how this Government acts, also in this area, in a clumsy way with regard to its own competences. We are putting in our hands temporarily - hopefully Europe will tell us something from this point of view - the National Private Assistance Agency with a stock package of 49%: a very delicate thing, at a very delicate stage, at which these important agreements are being made in Europe. This is diametrically opposed to what our partners are doing within Europe. Mr Secretary, I repeat that you will have your vote in favour, but we want to leave the conduct of this Government of the transport system to the acts which are not good (I am referring, in particular, to air transport). Among other things, this morning we read that the Minister is still filling his mouth, as far as air transport is concerned, with a possible letter of intent from a company that wants to take over the share of the flag company. The Minister came to the Commission, filling his mouth and saying that he will make a new strategic plan for airports and air transport; there is one small detail: we believe that the industrial plan that will be made by the new airline will also determine the strategies of our airports and the whole transport system. Too bad the Minister didn't get it! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u131	Compagnia, rapporteur. Mr President, I rise to announce the vote in favour of the New Right-Hand Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u134	DE PIETRO (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief. In declaring the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement, I would like to stress the important role played by our country in this project. We are objectively the leaders of this programme and, especially thanks to our initiative (think of the coordinating role of the so-called definition phase carried out by ENAV), the whole project will soon be feasible. This agreement carries out one of the so-called enhanced cooperations between Member States of the European Union and within the broader project represented by the Single European Sky. Within this air traffic control area, it will be possible to ensure greater safety, efficiency and capacity. I shall conclude by confirming the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u137	AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would also like to speak briefly to announce the vote in favour of Forza Italia for the ratification of this Agreement, which provides for enhanced cooperation aimed at harmonising air traffic management, which, as the rapporteur, Senator Compagna, has pointed out, is consistent with the objectives of the so-called "single European sky." All this tends to improve the levels of efficiency of the services to navigation for the airspace referable to the signatory countries of the measure. We have committed ourselves to the Commission and we approve the measure in this House today. It is a good sign of how Parliament looks closely at foreign policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u140	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of a very important measure by the Group of the Party of European Socialists. It is, in fact, a ratification of great importance, for the reasons already set out by the rapporteur and then underlined by the intervention of Deputy Minister Pistelli. I think there are two important issues. On the one hand, there is the question of the unification of European airspace, which is something strategic for the future of Europe. In this regard - and I do not want the League's colleague - talking about privatisation when the State retains control of 51% is an even problematic expression. [[Senator Crosio's comments.]] The central issue is Cyprus. Of course, among the many positive aspects of the enlargement strategy which represented a very important moment in Europe's growth and its capacity to build peace around it, Operation Cyprus was probably carried out with some untimelyness: an understanding had to be forced before entry into the European Union. Now, of course, everything has been complicated with regard to the possibility of the European Union pushing for peace and agreement within the island. However, I think it is important what Vice-Minister Pistelli said: Italy's commitment is strong to push in this direction, and the ratification we are considering must also be understood in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u142	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u143	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, what we are talking about here is in fact connected and not separated, since we are talking about the "single European sky." In fact, our entity that carries out this task is ENAV, and cannot be separated from the fact that the Government does not privatise, because it is already private, it is a SpA, a private law entity, but it sells quotas and, therefore, valorizes - valorizing is a term that has always been very nice - and we are talking about ENAV. ENAV has a key role to play, since it deals with what the Air Force did before. So what do we do? We unite the "one European sky," Blue Sky, etc., but with an entity that we value, in the sense that we sell the quotas. This must be clear in the head of those who say that it does not privatise: it is already private, it is a body governed by private law, a SpA (and I hope it is clear to you what a SpA is). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, when these gentlemen tell us that we do good things with something that is a private law entity, but in the hands of the State, which wants to sell it and does it to make money that doesn't serve anything, because that means, you just want to cash out and always with the same excuse, both from the Minister before and from the Deputy Minister of the hour: it serves to reduce public debt or capitalize... VOICES FROM THE ITALIA-THE PEOPLE OF FREEDOM 17TH LAW GROUP. Stop! CIOFFI (M5S). Just what? Study first. Listen up! Sometimes it is good for you to listen: learn something. Sometimes you learn something. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, the concept is simply this: we're making ENAV a crazy thing, in the sense that we're holding it in our hands but we're selling it because we need money. If this is the strategy that you want to adopt even with the State Railways - to tell you another - you will always find us opposed, because this is not how you value the assets of the State. Hence my dissenting vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u146	Barani (GAL). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u147	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Barani, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u150	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, last week the draft law on metropolitan towns and small towns was adopted in this House, on whose content I am not going back (for goodness' sake). However, it was suggested that the rules on the new number of advisers and the third term of office for small municipalities would already be applied in the elections on 25 May. On the other hand, elections are being convened by the prefects with the old number of members and without the possibility of a third term. It would be good for the government to make clear what it intends to do, because it could have waited to make the convocations by staying the terms. Evidently, he didn't. What number will there be? The old one or the new one? Since signatures were supposed to have been gathering for six months, it would be good, at least fifty days after the election, to know. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u151	This is a very important issue which the Presidency will also take on board.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u152	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00129 by Senator Vaccari and other senators, and 1-0024 by Senator Cioffi and other senators, on initiatives for the Saharawi people. I call Senator Vaccari to explain motion No 129.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pistelli, allow me first of all to thank, on behalf of the Parliamentary Intergroup of Friendship with the Saharawi people, which now counts 100 Members and Senators of the Republic, the Conference of Leaders for having wished to include this motion, tabled in August 2013, in the debate of the Senate Chamber. Many of you who, like me, have known the story for many years and have visited the Saharawi refugee camps know how important it is for the Polisario Front, for the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic, for the citizens living in refugee camps, for the Saharawi citizens living in the occupied territories of Western Sahara, for the National Association of Solidarity with the Saharawi people, a recognition and attention of this importance, for those who, like them since 1991, have chosen the path of diplomacy and international dialogue to arrive at the resolution of the conflict with Morocco, while other liberation movements in the world chose the ways of arms and terrorism. But let's go with order. The Western Sahara, already a Spanish colony, is actually the last African colony still waiting for its independence. The origin of the Saharawi people (literally the people of the desert) dates back to the meeting between the Berbers who lived in the Sahara desert and the Maqil Arabs who came from Yemen and settled in the region in the 13th century. But despite such an important and dignified history, the Saharawi people are currently deprived of the fundamental right to have a land on which to live in peace and freedom. Western Sahara comprises a territory of 284,000 square kilometers bordering Morocco, Algeria, Mauritania and the Atlantic Ocean. Like most African states, its borders are the result of agreements between European colonial powers eager to preserve their interests in the region, in one of the most hostile territories to human life throughout the planet. But Western Sahara is also a rich country. The largest resources are made up of large quantities of phosphates and abundant fish banks. Since 1975, about 165,000 Saharawi have been living in refugee camps in the Algerian desert (for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on 1 January 2013 116,452). Despite the terrible environmental conditions in which he is forced to live, the Saharawi people are demonstrating great unity and dignity. On their own or with the support of development cooperation, NGOs, associations and local authorities have managed to dig wells and start crops and animal farms, to build schools and hospitals. The life and administration of the camps are entrusted almost entirely to women. The family and the woman are in fact the true structure of the Saharawi society. Because of the long absence of men engaged in the liberation struggle, the role of women has grown to become, in practice, the only educator of children and administrator of public life. The struggle of the Saharawi people began on 31 October 1975, fifteen days after the International Court of Justice rejected the claims of sovereignty of Morocco and Mauritania over the former Spanish colony; from there began the Moroccan invasion and the resistance of the Polisario Front, completed in 1991 with a ceasefire under the aegis of the UN and in cooperation with the Organization for African Unity (OAU), in which agreement was expected to hold a referendum between the population of the Western Sahara on the choice between independence and integration with Morocco. The referendum, which was initially to be held in 1992, was the subject of repeated referrals, also due to the difficulties encountered by the UN mission MINURSO (the mandate of which was last extended to 30 April 2014 and in which Italy participates with five military observers), in the registration of those entitled to vote due to divergent interpretations between the parties on the voting table. The battle is no longer armed, but to date, since 1991, we have continued to fight at diplomatic level in a peaceful and democratic way to see the right to self-determination recognised, as a success for other cases such as East Timor. After several negotiating attempts that failed to deliver the hoped-for results, following the failure of the Baker peace plan in 2003, the negotiations were restarted in 2007 on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution No 1754 of 30 April calling on the two parties to enter into talks preparing to resolve the situation. Following the substantial failure of this round of negotiations that continued until 2008, another negotiation was launched in 2009 by the UN Secretary General's envoy, US diplomat Cristopher Ross. This new negotiation resulted in nine informal meetings, during which the parties essentially reaffirmed their strong commitment to the negotiation process, but no progress was made on the crucial point of the negotiations, namely the future status of the Western Sahara and the means by which to implement the self-determination of the Saharawi people. In May 2012, Morocco withdrew its confidence in Ross, judged in the "unbalanced" and "partial" methods, but in truth the issue was the UN report on Western Sahara, in which critical assessments were made regarding respect for human rights. 11:55 a.m. (Follow VACCARI). In August 2012, Morocco revised its decision, but yet Ross could only hold another round of negotiations, until April 8, 2013, the date of the UN Secretary-General's report on the situation in Western Sahara. In that report, the Secretary-General highlighted a close link between Western Sahara and the situation of insecurity in the Sahel region, one of the poorest in the world and characterised by poor economic and social development and serious violations of human rights; the Secretary-General insisted on the need to deal with the Western Sahara conflict as part of a broader strategy for the Sahel, and that the delay in organising the referendum brought with it the risk of escalation of violence, especially among young people. Despite this, the negotiating situation is still blocked, while the situation regarding the protection of human rights continues to deteriorate. In fact, as we pointed out in the press conference in Nassirya a few weeks ago on the occasion of the mission measure, MINURSO only partially fulfilled its original tasks. It monitored the ceasefire by means of international observers, on one side as well as on the other side of the wall, reporting any violations; it ensured with its police and civilian personnel the long process of identification; instead it did not deploy the proper military component, which was to intervene in the transition phase. This did not allow the blue helmets to take control of the Western Sahara. In May 2005, as a result of the transfer of a Saharawi prisoner from El Aaiún prison to a Moroccan prison, the family protested, to which many people joined in solidarity. It was the start of an intense phase of protest. The repression, arbitrary arrests, torture and summary trials are documented by countless reports from international organizations, such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the Kennedy Foundation, and by reports produced in the United Nations' work. In the face of this repression, defenders Saharawi have turned with confidence to MINURSO, but discovering that the blue helmets had no mandate to protect the population, to ensure respect for human rights, the founding principle of the United Nations itself. The awareness on the ground of this absurd contradiction within the UN, especially since it is the only UN peace mission without this mandate, leads the Saharawis to claim the end of the scandal and the extension of the mandate of the blue helmets. Italy is among the very few countries to have given continuity to its presence among the blue helmets, since the beginning of MINURSO, alongside other forces of other countries. In this context, it is useful to recall that the European Union has never had a common position on the issue of Western Sahara. Since 1993, the European Commission has provided aid and in 2012 the Department of Humanitarian Aid has allocated EUR 10 million for food aid and access to drinking water. The European Union is Morocco's main economic partner, with whom it has established an association agreement, which includes the creation of an area of free trade, while in 2008 it granted Morocco an advanced status, within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy. This policy has seen not only substantial resources, but also recently the European Parliament's approval of the protocol to the Fisheries Partnership Agreement, which was rejected as early as 2011, because it considered it detrimental to the right of the Saharawi people to the territorial waters of Western Sahara without any return in the form of investments for the exile population. In conclusion, Mr President, the work we have done with the Saharawi people's intergroup led to the presentation of this motion (in text 2). The Government is asked for a commitment to take every useful initiative at international level to promote the resumption of direct negotiations, under the aegis of the United Nations, between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front. Also in view of the UN Security Council, scheduled for April 2014, the Government must take action in the appropriate international fora so that the mandate of the MINURSO mission is supplemented and updated on the basis of the latest and similar models approved by the Security Council. It also calls for a commitment from the Commission to ask the Moroccan authorities to ensure that the Saharawi prisoners in prisons are given full right to a fair trial and that guarantees are obtained from the Moroccan Government on respect for fundamental rights. It is also necessary to relaunch, in agreement with the European partners and the Community institutions, any useful diplomatic initiative aimed at promoting the effective recognition of the freedom of access and movement in Western Sahara of independent international observers, the press and humanitarian organisations. Just as it is necessary to ensure the allocation of funds for humanitarian aid to the Saharawi refugee population. Finally, and as a matter of priority, the Government is committed to working actively with the representation in Italy of the Polisario Front, a liberation movement recognized by the UN as a legitimate representative of the Saharawi people and as an official interlocutor in the negotiations on Western Sahara. These are important and qualifying points of our Government's action in European and international fora. I hope that the whole House will support it, giving a sense of compactness and sharing, as is the case on other occasions with regard to human rights and the right to self-determination of peoples. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u154	I call Senator Cioffi to explain motion 242.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u155	Madam President, perhaps the first time I had spoken about the Western Sahara and the Polisario Front, I was the age of the children who are witnessing our work today. It is such an ancient story: we have been talking about the self-determination of the Saharawi people for over forty years. I remember that the first resolution was in 1966, when the Sahara was still Spanish. It even seems absurd to me that we should talk in this House about an issue that should already be resolved. However, there are so many situations in the world that have not yet been resolved. Perhaps the reasons why some problems are not solved are always the same and always related to the control of resources. Moreover, we went to wage a war in Iraq for the control of resources, because there is so much oil in those areas. The problem of the occupied Palestinian territories is water. If within Jerusalem, the Israelis, within the same aqueduct, of the pipe network, have 170 litres per inhabitant per day and in the Palestinian areas those living there have 21, perhaps there is one problem. In Western Sahara too, the problem is clear. There is a beautiful phosphorous mine, the largest in the world, and Morocco, which has illegally occupied the territory of the former Western Sahara, is the third largest producer in the world of phosphates. So, as always, the reasons for these things are never political reasons, but only for exploitation, and we are here to reaffirm such an ancient history. It is said that there are great resources in the territory of Western Sahara which, fortunately, the UN has said that they should not be exploited, but only explored. Such resources are always the same; oil, gas and lots, lots of water. Even in the desert there is plenty of water, and desert water is perhaps more important than oil, because without oil you live, but without water you die. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So we're still talking about this story, and that's the absurdity. What is the problem if in 1966 the UN said that Spain, which was the country that had colonized this territory, had to hold a referendum for the self-determination of a people? The Spaniards left, there was war and the Polisario Front. In a 1993 song titled "Tuttapposto" the 99 Posses said that there was always trouble on the Polisario Front; it is absurd that, after twenty years, we still talk about this story. The problem, however, is always the same. But the problem is always the same: what is the reference base? When a referendum on self-determination is held, what is the reference base? The last census of the Spaniards was in 1974. The UN made one in 2000. But, by chance, the Government of Morocco encourages the citizens of Morocco to settle in the territory of the former Western Sahara to vary the electoral base. In fact, when the electoral base varies, the referendum of self-determination of a people is influenced by the people present on the territory. This fact of encouraging settlements reminds me of another place in the world, and I don't need to tell you what it is. The problems are always the same. We always talk about the same things. But why do we not say clearly that the Italian State must ask the Government of Morocco to choose the electoral base? And perhaps it would be more appropriate to refer to that of 1974, before economic benefits encouraged the settlements of part of Morocco's citizens in another place. You have to have some strength. I realize that it is such an ancient story that it is absurd to have to talk about it again after forty years without the matter being resolved. We ask the Moroccan Government to allow this referendum to be held once and for all. The commitment of our motion is simply this. We wanted to remember why all this happened: because the electoral base has changed by 10,000 units from 1974 to 2000 and because there is no pressure on Morocco. We must put pressure on the Moroccan Government, and that is what we are asking for in our motion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u156	I declare the debate open. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely difficult to survive in the Sahara Desert because of the particular climatic conditions; yet a people, the Saharawis, is forced to do so because they are exiled in this place. This population resists in part in the Tendopolis at the extreme south of the Algerian desert and in part in its ancient territory today occupied by Morocco. In both territories the Saharawi live in a complex situation: economic, geographical and political. Although Western Sahara is an area of enormous size, bordered by European diplomacy since 1885 with the Berlin Conference, today the Saharawis have not yet been guaranteed the right to settle in a territory that is autonomous and self-managed. The Saharawis, impoverished from Morocco of their land, began a war of freedom - with an open face - refusing the choice of terrorism. Their story is a song to resistance. The approximately 200,000 Saharawi in the refugee camps of Tindouf, Algeria, are relegated to one of the most inhospitable landscapes on earth; yet thanks to the pride and pride of their tradition they live in the hope of seeing one day realized the dream of independence on their own land. The Saharawis are distinguished from other African ethnic groups in order to have a social organization in which everyone is called to an active role, in which the elderly and especially women are valued, who share with men equal responsibilities at every level. Morocco has been obstructing a path of peace for years by denying a free and democratic referendum, sanctioning the independence of the Saharawi people, suppressing the voices of dissidents with violence and imprisonment. The United Nations Security Council itself has since 1991 started a democratic process through the MINURSO mission with the aim of regulating every dispute on the Saharan territories between Morocco and the political self-government body of the Saharawi Democratic Arab Republic, recognized as a free and independent state of the African Union. Today it is necessary for this Senate to urge our diplomacy to intervene so that the MINURSO mission is equipped with the requirement for the protection of human rights; this would help to peacefully resolve a conflict on North African territory. Europe must therefore commit itself to promoting a path of peace in North Africa; it can do so by supporting the Security Council in which, with the exception of France and Morocco,... president. You should finish, Senator De Pin. DE PIN (Misto-GAPp). ...you find a cohesive majority of the Member States, aimed at self-determination of the Saharawi people. Therefore, in this House, I call for a vote in favour of motion No 129 (text 2). We are called to strongly reaffirm our constitutional principles of freedom and justice. I ask the Government to commit itself to recognising the diplomatic status of the Polisario Front in Italy, as has been done in the past for other liberation movements recognised by the UN. [[Applause from Senator Borozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u158	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u159	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Vaccari, who has played a very strong role in the Intergroup and who finally brings us today - even if always in the margins of Thursday - to the debate on this very important motion, which affects such sensitive aspects. Let me make an initial assessment: in the face of policies affecting peoples, there are always some aspects of distortion, depending on the occasion, on the self-determination of peoples; it is not appropriate to make controversy, but it is also right to remember that. In the words of Senator Vaccari I listened to an exhibition that went beyond the cold terms that sometimes serve to write a motion or to illustrate in a more or less diplomatic way the international situations, but there is no doubt that in this case we go further. In my opinion, Mr Cioffi has also spoken in a very sensitive way, giving rise to a geopolitical situation which forces a people in that situation and which perhaps should see greater clarity. Colleagues, we are not talking about years, months, days: it is a question of whether we want to intervene or not. Outside of what is expected in motion 129 (text 2), in which I will vote, as part of the Intergroup (and I call on the whole House to vote on it), however, Mr Vaccari and representative of the Government, when we talk about human rights and put in a motion that our request to Morocco on human rights must be compatible with the lines of action agreed within the EU, I am puzzled by that. In fact, either they are human rights, and respect for human rights is being asked, or it has nothing to do with asking for them to be compatible with the EU's lines of action. If we are authoritative, if we are a country in which we think we can be positive actors in these situations, it seems to me that certain prescriptions diminish our international role, do not make it more important. In addition, with regard to point 5 of the motion itself, while agreeing on everything, it is expected that it will be in line with the European partners, but we can do diplomatic action and if the European partners then believe us, follow us, stimulate them and move forward. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Volpi. VOLPI (LN-Aut). I'm done. I call on you to vote in favour of motion No 129 (text 2). I ask the government if these two passages can be expunged, but we will still vote on them, and I think that we will be able to distinguish ourselves as Parliament and as a country on these aspects. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u160	Madam President, these motions are part of a path of attention that our country has never failed to pay to the Saharawi people, and I would like to thank our Ministry of Foreign Affairs for its attention. Over the years a critical status quo has been established before which almost total inertia by international forces has been recorded. As has also been pointed out in some points of the motions for resolutions before us, the human rights situation in Western Sahara is unfortunately still very critical: members of the Saharawi people are deprived of rights that cannot be denied, and repression is particularly ongoing in respect of them. Although there have been attempts at intervention to protect, unfortunately, due to pressure from the Moroccan Government, it has been impossible to achieve anything in fact. It is worth remembering that last April the US State Department published a dossier in support of a draft resolution proposing the extension of the mandate of MINURSO on human rights. Unfortunately, this project was abandoned as a result of pressure from Moroccan diplomacy. We are faced with a long-standing issue that will certainly not be resolved in a few lines, but the absence in this moment of a strong international activism goes to amplify the criticalities already showy on the territory. For this reason it is important to urge a renewed role of our country, also because of the particularly privileged geographical position in the Mediterranean, in order to activate in all international tables a new confrontation between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front, two realities that we consider very close, in order to create the conditions to arrive at a situation that is at least in line with what is defined in the resolutions of the United Nations and that respect the right to self-determination of the Saharawi people. In this perspective of a renewed season of international confrontation - which Italy can and must urge - an important point could be represented by the renewed institutional recognition of the Saharawi people and the Polisario Front, as has been done in the past for other liberation movements, recognized by the UN as official interlocutors in peace processes. My Group will therefore support, without delay, motion No 219 (text 2), which has found me a signatory. [[Applause from Senator Merloni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u161	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, our country is taking part in the MINURSO humanitarian mission to protect the rights of the Saharawi people in the Western Sahara. Relations between the Maghreb States and the ethnic minority of the Saharawi population are not yet resolved, in full violation of the principle of self-determination of peoples. The Arab Saharawi Democratic Republic (RASD) has been recognized as a free and independent state by the African Union and by more than 80 countries around the world, as has been said. The persecution of the Saharawi people and the continuous denials of human rights in that area of North Africa call our country to assume a more decisive role in protecting a people that has always responded to violence and oppression with a peaceful resistance, appealing to civil rights. We call for a real and serious commitment from our Government, also with a view to ensuring adequate support for the process of RASD's admission to the United Nations. Italy aspires to become leader in the revival of the peoples of the Mediterranean, with a view to a cultural, commercial and economic enhancement of the countries that overlook the Mare Nostrum. A legitimate aspiration that passes from the great hope of young people and women, those of our Mezzogiorno, those of the Arab Spring, those of the Saharawi people. On my territory, thanks to cultural exchanges, and during the hearings in the Committee on Human Rights, I understood how this people did not give up on anger or resignation, demonstrating passion, courage and civilization. It is a question, both in the occupied territories and in the refugee camps, of experiencing a model of exemplary coexistence in conditions of extreme difficulty, a model based on the family, based on equal opportunities and peace, a Community model based on the valorisation of democratic education. Many boys and girls have studied and trained abroad in the hope of not only having more tools to defend their cultural identity on international tables, but also with the aim of bringing services and skills, care and culture to their own people, which they do. Unfortunately, for too many years they have not seen anything change. How long will the Saharawi people have to accept this condition without reacting violently? This is a problem that is also being posed by the Polisario Front. How do we think it is possible not to react to violations of fundamental human rights? The civilians of the Saharawi people in the non-autonomous territory do not have the fundamental rights of association, expression and demonstration, and the repression against them is testified by international organizations for the defence of human rights. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Yes, Madam President. In addition to this, as Senator Vaccari (which I too thank for his commitment) has well recalled, which has reconstructed the history of prevarication and economic control for political purposes and contradiction in the UN, it is a story that Italy sees instead in an active role. Incisiveness could be greater by building a common front at European level. It will be possible to achieve what the motion identifies today as positive developments for the situation of the Saharawi people. It is wrong who thinks that they are problems that do not concern us, because if they can live well in their territory, with which they have a strong bond and in which they have a strong cultural identity, they will certainly not be forced to embark to come to us and die in order to find freedom. Freedom and self-determination must have them in their land. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u163	We greet the students of the Liceo Scientifico e Linguistico "Immanuel Kant" in Melito di Napoli. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u164	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u165	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank Senator Volpi for his reply to Mr Vaccari, who has spent the last few months making sure that this Intergroup has its own strength. In my speech I will focus mainly on two concepts: that of women and that of peace, which are not by chance united in this situation. In fact, in the Saharawi people, we certainly find an example of pride and patience, because, while living who belongs to you the condition of refugee, which is not unknown also to other peoples, has not lost its identity, both in the recognition and defense of traditions, and in the care of all those elements around which a society is built, such as the care from the environment, the concern for its own survival through productive activities peculiar to the environment and its own tradition, but also and especially the schools. Women in the Saharawi people are the pillar of unity and continuity in the education of the younger generations and are also the protagonists of another value, which belongs to the female gender, who thus cares about survival: the choice of peace. This is another characteristic of the Saharawi people: since 1991 its battle has become no longer armed. It is a very courageous choice, not always rewarded and counter-trending, since other peoples have not followed this path and, under the same conditions, have taken the armed response to defend their territory and their rights. It is therefore a courageous choice, but also a highly risky one: unfortunately, in all the battles that commit the defence of human rights and their rights, the greatest danger is the silence and loneliness in which it can be left those who choose the path that has the least resonance, that of peace, both for distraction and convenience. 12:22 p.m. (Mussini followed). Certainly the desire for peace does not make any noise, therefore the struggle of this courageous people has certainly lost over time the appeal that it has had in the past with a wider audience and that certainly have other struggles. So, fatally, a theme that undoubtedly was very fashionable years ago has lost such a visibility character and has remained dear to those who really know this people and shares this desire to win a battle, but with different tools. Now, this battle has remained in the background of a theatre in which, as Mr Cioffi said, profitable economic relations are obviously celebrated. We have also welcomed the Kingdom of Morocco's ability to withstand this shock wave which has brought to maturity the demands we have seen on the southern shore of the Mediterranean. Some have welcomed this, but it does not solve the problem of a relationship which must be clear, because the UN has made various resolutions, seeking to resolve this problem by peaceful means, such as the sending of MINURSO, whose effectiveness, however, always because of these economic interests, is in fact postponed, while the implementation of the referendum is being shifted over time. It is clear that Morocco's rejection of the full implementation of the UN plan and this dilatory attitude have to do with international support for this resistance. I ask the Vice Minister here and our country to ensure that the international community, and Italy in the first place, also in the autonomy that called Senator Volpi, decide whether peace is a value that is built in compliance with decisions that have been negotiated and mediated, but that are still on the table, or if not so. Even as a legacy to be left to the next generations, we must decide whether to give a signal that what we say and have said, including about the Geneva Conference and the ongoing conflicts, is true or not. We are faced with a people who have chosen a path, has chosen to collaborate repeatedly for a peaceful resolution of a conflict and has chosen to negotiate and accept further changes and variations. We need to get out of opacity and have the courage to take clear positions. With motion 129 (text 2) it is intended only to begin a journey. Italy must have the clarity to support a civil path. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u166	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u167	Mr President, I would like to take up some of the points that Mr Cioffi, who presented the motion tabled by the 5 Star Movement Group, brought back to the Chamber a few minutes ago. These are points that, of course, as the senator said, need some historical memory. We know for certain that the history of Western Sahara was not only written many years ago, but also transformed and had important developments since the 1980s; perhaps since 1982, when the Moroccan Government decided to start building a sort of Chinese wall, which divided the territories of its competence from those controlled by the Polisario Front: five years of construction for a structure that, frankly, I have many doubts that it has the functions that the Moroccan Government itself wanted to give it. It is a long and controversial story; it is the story of a place in the world in which a conflict does not find a solution. Very often, when a conflict does not find a solution, it is because there are mixes between political, economic and social issues. I wonder, therefore, by referring to what Andrea Cioffi said, who is interested in the Western Sahara remaining in the current condition of geopolitical stability and instability. That is what Mr Cioffi said: it is primarily concerned with companies producing phosphates, which are the essential component of chemical fertilizers, mainly located in Australia. Large cargo ships in Australia, New Zealand, the smaller islands depart from the ports of Morocco. But it is not only of interest to these companies, because in recent years, in the territory of the Western Sahara, several other projects have started to really exploit a former energy colony. I am talking above all about the construction of a large plant, a large wind farm, and an equally vast solar park. In this situation, they are - it seems - included international societies related to the Moroccan royal family. I am also referring to some other major works initiated by the Moroccan Government in the territories of Western Sahara itself, such as the extension of the port of El Ayun, with a section specifically dedicated to the loading and unloading of phosphate rocks which must then be transferred to the extra-African processing plants. I am also talking about the enormous expansion of a site of extraction and production of cement materials managed by the Moroccan cements, which is a company connected to the Italian group Italcementi. In the motion that we propose, we ask the Italian Government to evaluate very carefully the role it can play, not only in the process of peacemaking of a land that today, geopolitically, is held in the balance between a situation of substantial alertness and forced peace. We probably need to integrate ourselves in the right way in the assessment of the economic and political dynamics that this troubled land has seen in the forty or fifty years of its existence, and propose solutions, which are expressly contained in the indications requested by the 5 Star Movement Group in motion 242. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u168	Senator Bertuzzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u169	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage both of the contents of motion 129 (text 2) and of the detailed account of Senator Vaccari, who has managed to reconstruct in a very detailed way and I also believe that the history that has been involving the Saharawi people for several decades now is sufficiently objective. In the same way I want to treasure, without repeating them, the considerations of all those who have spoken before me and who have described this people with precise characteristics, which also help us to define our position: a noble people, of high dignity, who chose the path of peace, in not wanting direct and armed confrontation. It is a people who since 1991 have been waiting for substance to be given to those deliberations, probably adopted at a time when the United Nations Organization had a greater force than the one it then showed to have in the following years. If those resolutions had been implemented in 1991, we would probably be telling another story in this House today. In all these years, however, much has changed, both within the perimeter of North Africa and outside, in the countries surrounding Morocco and Western Sahara. International and economic relations have also changed a great deal, and fortunately they have increasingly been accompanied by processes of democratization of the peoples, which have been more or less successfully concluded. Today we are in a situation in which the contents of the mission in which Italy also participates show, in my opinion, its inadequacy. In the meantime, the facts that have been well told by colleagues who have spoken before me have happened: symbolic and representative facts of a process of marginalization of this people have happened, and that wall, 2,700 kilometers long, clearly bears witness to this. Today, behind that wall, there is a situation - seen, measured and represented by international observers - that goes beyond the rights of self-determination of that people. Those we recognize and recognize the international community: 80 countries around the world recognize the Saharawi as an autonomous state. But that wall, that long process and the failure to reach an agreement between the parties today makes us say - and that is the reason for the promptness with which this motion is tabled - that this is the priority issue on which we, the European Union and international organisations must take a determined and strong position. On 30 April, the peace mission expires, which should be extended and renewed. We must be the first to want that peace mission to deal also with the protection of human rights. I am a member of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. No later than the last session, a question was put in the Commission on human rights which will have to lead to the construction - I hope - not just of an opinion, but of a resolution by the Council of Europe on the issue of the Saharawi people. The Council of Europe, unlike the European Union, is a body that should be even stronger in terms of composition and objectives than the European Union can be. It is stronger in its composition, because 47 countries belong to the Council of Europe; it is stronger because its mandate is to promote the spread of democracy; and it is stronger because what today seem to be secondary to the elements that prevented the conclusion of this agreement, that is, economic issues and issues of margins of power. Then I believe that today this motion, a few days after the extension of the content of the peace mission, allows Italy to do something else not only for the Saharawi people, but also for our citizens. There is a relationship of solidarity in our country with this people. The speed with which the Intergroup has been reactivated says a lot about how the representatives of the territories, when they arrived in Parliament, wanted to bring the voice of their communities, which have tightened - recognizing the dignity of this people - the need to be involved in their process of democratization. Then in all this, in a North Africa that lived in Springs that we would have hoped led to trials with a different outcome, in which Morocco well or badly distinguished itself also within a process of democratization, I believe that the contents that we will be able to give to our adherence to the mission of peace will truly give the distinctiveness that Italy wants not only in relations with this country, but also in the strategic role in the matter of human rights within the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u170	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u171	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u172	Mr President, I would like to thank on behalf of the Government all the Members who have spoken in this debate, starting with Senator Vaccari, who, on behalf of the Intergroup, has taken responsibility for making a motion which has so far received the support of the majority of the groups represented in the Senate. It has been highlighted - and I can only join these considerations - how the cause of the Saharawi enjoys widespread sympathy in our country. I believe that some of those who have spoken come from areas and regions that every year, for many years, respond to initiatives of solidarity and twinning with parts of the Saharawi people and host children. I believe that a number of representatives of political forces have had the opportunity in recent years to travel there, to go also to Tindouf, and therefore to see with their own eyes the situation we are talking about. I also understand - the reason has been very well expressed by the various speeches - that the widespread feeling of frustration that goes through the repeated approval of instruments of political direction, such as this morning, stems from a fact relating to this conflict, as well as to others. Others have even been mentioned this morning in the conduct of other items on the agenda: I am thinking of the division of the island of Cyprus or other conflicts mentioned by Senator Cioffi, such as the endless peace process with regard to the Palestinian question. As I said, this feeling of frustration runs across these conflicts that seem never to evolve, with an accentuation in the case of the Saharawi, because, as has been pointed out, the Saharawi people have long chosen the path of a non-violent affirmation of their own reasons. Therefore, it is precisely by attesting this peaceful and non-violent character that the international community - first and foremost the United Nations - cannot bring the negotiating process to a successful conclusion. Having said that, I would like to add a few questions, because the debate has been very broad, and I agree with it, as well as the text of Senator Vaccari, who collects the majority of the support and which is very broad, both in the narrative and in the challenging part of the Government. I would just like to add a few - very few - remarks, which have probably escaped the debate so far, and some accentuations. The first accentuation was actually made by Senator Di Biagio and, ultimately, by Senator Ferrara (if I'm not mistaken), and I want to take it back. I am referring to the appointment we have, from here to a few weeks, within the United Nations. It is true: we will renew the mandate of the MINURSO mission; we have no doubt that the nations They will proceed in this direction. It is true that this year's novelty comes from the request made by the Secretary-General's representative to add, among the mandates of the MINURSO mission, a specific task on the monitoring of human rights in the region. You know that this request, which is supported by many of the major international NGOs, has clearly been hindered, in the debate at the Security Council, not only by France, but also by the Government of Morocco (at this time Morocco is a non-permanent member of the Security Council) and has also seen a number of concerns from Russia and China, in the belief that the modification of this mandate may alter the balance in the region. I signal this because - I want to remember - Italy is candidate, for 2017 and 2018, to return to the Security Council. This is a debate that we are looking at from outside that forum today, but which also reveals the strategic importance, for these and other issues, of a battle that will have to engage the entire country and its constitutional bow to achieve that goal. These are short mandates - two years - but there are times when it is possible to make a difference. Instead, in this case, we are seeing that debate from the outside. If I am not mistaken, Senator Volpi has critically recalled some points in the narrative of the motion, those in which the compatibility or the co-erences with the European partners are mentioned. In this regard, I would like to make a clarification (I am not the extensor and not even the authentic interpreter of Senator Vaccari's thought, but I do this job). I am referring to what it means today, in such conflicts and negotiations, to have the conviction that they will be resolved bilaterally or, instead, to increase efforts in the multilateral framework. Maybe, if "compatibly" may seem an excessively obsequious expression, so to speak, I am the first to suggest to Senator Vaccari to change it into "in coherence." However, the meaning is another. The point is that the European Union, both in its human rights dialogue with many countries (we call it a structured dialogue with human rights) and when it decides to exercise conditionality when it has joint development projects, obviously weighs much more when it thinks in 28, rather than individually. Since Senator Cioffi first evoked the theme of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, I would stress that he has never been in danger as in these hours when the last desperate attempt by Secretary of State John Kerry to bring the parties to a fruitful continuation of their dialogue is being made. I would like to remind you that in the time when the European Union divided between the more pro-Palestinian countries (pass me the definition) and the more pro-Israeli countries no results have been achieved. A legally very subtle and refined instrument such as the joint decision on guidelines, through which cooperation and development projects can be taken, in the occupied territories has actually had a much greater leverage over that negotiation. This is to say that it may seem much more tiring (and it is) to reach a concerted position in 28, especially when it is known that some of those countries take positions with much more partiality, but it weighs much more in the overall negotiations that are being conducted. In this sense I read the two expressions: "compatibly" (which I would suggest to correct with "coherent" and "coherent" with European partners. As you know, even when it came to ratifying fisheries agreements and other details with the Government of Rabat there were similar debates. I want to make one final point. Finally, the link between the situation of the Western Sahara and the more comprehensive one of the phenomena that have crossed the North, the Arab part, of Africa was mentioned. I would like to say how unfortunately, within a situation that has always been characterized by an objective tension between Algeria and Morocco with respect to the Saharawi, but of overall peace within the Saharawi territory, this territory is, instead, recently crossed by new and worrying phenomena. You know that the Sahara, which is the largest desert in the world, has an area of 9 million square kilometres. Of this, the most fragile part, the Sahel, has an extension of 2,5 million square kilometers, that is about eight and a half times the surface of Italy. An area (just see the borders drawn with the ruler) in which the boundary hypothesis is purely geopolitical, but not geographical, has become one of the bands - alas! - of greater instability. A sort of corridor that from the Red Sea reaches the Atlantic Ocean where it shakes and moves, with a particularly worrying network, a galaxy of jihadist groups of various signs that however have logistic collaborations between them and that make pass in this band of everything: weapons, spare parts, rations of food, energy and hostages. I remember the hostages because I want to recall this branch of Parliament to the story of Rossella Urru and the co-workers who were kidnapped with her and freed after a strenuous negotiation. Rossella Urru and the Spanish co-workers who worked with her were, in fact, working in one of the Saharawi refugee camps. This is to mean how this people and these fields, traditionally peaceful, have also in recent months been the subject of disturbing phenomena of infiltration which, after the unsolved event of the conflict in Mali, makes also use part of the Western Sahara as a potential sanctuary of trespassing for some of the groups moving in this absolutely porous and borderless land. All this emphasizes the need for a commitment to find a solution. Finally, I would like to recall, because it would not be possible without the unanimous commitment and support of this Parliament, the fact that Italy, on the other hand, has always been one of the countries most active in solidarity, in humanitarian support to the camps. I would like to point out that, under the hat of cooperation, only between 2007 and 2011 amounted to almost EUR 4 million, the appropriations included in various programmes for the Saharawi, with particular reference to the most vulnerable groups, i.e. minors and women, and that after a couple of years of interruption, just last year we returned to intervention, allocating a total of EUR 900,000, with three programmes: one under the HCR, the other under the World Food Programme, plus a bilateral programme with UNICEF to distribute food and to protect the most vulnerable groups. This would not be possible if we did not know that we had very broad support in Parliament, representative of the widespread sympathy that exists in the country for this cause. For these reasons, we continue our bilateral commitment, especially to the Government of Morocco. In the motions put forward, a number of elements of great concern have been mentioned as a result of the heavy sentences imposed in recent trials. We continue - and it is not a hat of apology - within the Community framework to seek a solution that will lead to a structured dialogue with Morocco, Algeria and the Saharawi people, clearly aimed at protecting the fundamental conditions of dignity of this people. Moreover, from a country that has always believed in the principles of multilateralism and is spent, as few others in the West, despite the economic crisis, to finance and support the initiatives of the United Nations, we renew our support to the representative of the Secretary General, so that - this is our wish - this element of further attention can also be introduced in the renewed mandate to MINURSO on the subject of human rights monitoring. Mr President, I do not know whether I can use this time, by paying only once, even to express the Government's opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely. Mr PISTELLI, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have suggested to Senator Vaccari some proposals for reformulation - which I believe he has accepted - aimed simply at taking note of the changes I mentioned earlier; moreover, we have asked and agreed with Senator Vaccari to mitigate in some respects, in line with an international worlding, point 7) - the last point of the demanding part of the motion - writing to commit the Government to cooperate actively with the representation in Italy of the Polisario Front, a liberation movement recognized by the UN as a legitimate representative of the Saharawi people and as an official interlocutor of the negotiations of the Western Sahara. Any subsequent upgrading of diplomatic status would be divisive towards the other side on which we exert our pressure, namely Morocco, and thus become an instrument that unbalances our position. Instead, I address a very warm appeal to Senator Cioffi, who has tabled a motion a little more marked both from the point of view of narrative and from that of the device, inviting (after listening to his speech) the M5S Group to converge on a common text. I say this as a veteran of Parliament, which has done a number of cohesion work in the other branch - let us say this - from right to left, knowing that the more the vote on an issue like this from a municipal Council to a Parliament Chamber is capable of achieving unanimity, the stronger the weight that Italy can spend on the negotiating table, both European and bilateral, with both sides. This is the appeal I make to Senator Cioffi not to be forced to carry out a job of interpolation (which would be particularly tiring in the case of the motion at his first signature) or to express an opinion contrary to the Government. It would be a good result of this House, after such a rich debate, if we could instead converge on a text that is not ommissive towards responsibilities, but balanced, when it calls both sides - of course with different burdens - to converge for a negotiation that can be positive for the Saharawi people. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u173	It seems to me that the remarks made by Deputy Minister Pistelli regarding motion No 129, at the first signature of Senator Vaccari, have already been incorporated into text 2. Is that right, Senator Vaccari?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u174	Mr President, this is the case except for one, the one that called Senator Volpi back. Vice-Minister Pistelli proposed to correct the text in point 4, replacing the word "compatibly" with the expression "in consistency" with "in consistency." As far as I am concerned (and I believe that this applies also to the other signatories), this amendment proposal is fine.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u175	Mr President, I have not mentioned a few minor changes, which relate to other points of the device, but which have already been agreed with the presenter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u176	We'll do an audit right away.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u179	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I turn over the text of the explanation of vote to your appeal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Group of the North League and Autonomy will vote in favour of the motion tabled by Senator Vaccari and other senators, as reworded, while abstaining on the motion presented by the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u180	Senator Arrigoni, thank you for accepting my request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u183	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I also welcome your call for the written intervention to be delivered. I declare that my Group will vote in favour of the motion that we have signed, but also in favour (unless there is a broad convergence) of the motion tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. We regard the issue of recognition as a very important fact. We understand the difficulties of the government, but we regret having to give up this political point, which is a historic battle of many of us, which has seen engaged in these years not only local authorities, administrations and governments, but also many Italian citizens in the Saharawi cause. We consider this motion to be a first step, but we hope that we can converge, precisely because we understand the importance of a unanimous vote on a single text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u186	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I would like to announce the vote in favour of the senators of the New Right Centre, expressing a particular appreciation for the competence and passion with which Mr Vaccari argued the initiative. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u189	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, we will vote in favour of the first-signed motion by Senator Vaccari, but we do not think we will withdraw our motion for a simple reason. The last four commitments are identical to the commitments of a motion submitted to the Chamber of Deputies and signed by Minister Mogherini when he was a Member of Parliament. I cannot understand, therefore, because the Minister has tabled a motion and the commitments are the same, because the Government has expressed itself contrary to ours. We will therefore vote in favour of Senator Vaccari's motion, but we will not withdraw our motion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u192	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I welcome your invitation and, as a result, I turn over the written text of my speech. I, too, urge Mr Cioffi, although I think his point is correct in seeking harmony. I therefore welcome your willingness to vote together on these motions and the will of the Government to vote unanimously in the Assembly. The fact that there has been a passage in the House makes it clear that the Government, Parliament and the Italian people are particularly attentive to everything that is happening in that part of the Sahara. In this sense, as the author of the motion, I am voting in favour of it by my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u195	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, I would like to say that my Group will vote in favour of the motion that Senator Vaccari has as its first signatory.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u198	Mr Spilabotte (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will deliver the speech but I will also take a few minutes. I believe that the international community cannot remain unarmed in this situation and must make its will for peace and its adherence to the values of respect for human and democratic rights felt. By approving this motion and thus sharing its objectives, the Senate can also be an interpreter of the solidarity that over the last few years has seen committed, with the Saharawi people, dozens of municipalities, provinces, regions, associations, non-governmental organizations and thousands of Italian citizens. No one disowns or underestimates the role that the Kingdom of Morocco can play in stability and cooperation in such an area of tension and problems. The shared vote on this motion will allow us to ask and reiterate, on the eve of the new UN Security Council, that the mandate of the MINURSO mission be supplemented and updated, as the Deputy Minister reassured us. Our act of direction follows many parliamentary initiatives, many motions and resolutions adopted, hearings, missions in Western Sahara, which make me say that the Italian Parliament has constantly followed the conflict in Western Sahara. All this happened in analogy to many municipalities, provinces and Italian regions, twinned with local authorities of the camps of the Saharawi refugees in the Algerian desert, who host children providing medical care. We are faced with a wide-ranging and non-political voluntary network. It may seem strange that such a broad solidarity is developing towards a people whose print and television news is almost unmarked. Why aren't we talking about this? Yet it is the last colonial remnant present in Africa; a hot area of the planet, the Maghreb, an area, as we know, at risk of terrorism. We all said, after 11 September, that in order to beat terrorism we must first drain the reservoirs of tension and potential conflict, and this is undoubtedly a basin of potential and further conflict to be drained. The international community must therefore send a completely opposite signal, which rewards these liberation movements that do not resort to violence and terrorism. So we have to deal with it, we have to find a solution. In all its acts so far, the Italian Parliament has always moved in the wake of the work carried out by the United Nations. I want to make one final point, although I do not think there is any need for it. There is no hostility on the part of the signatories of this motion to the Kingdom of Morocco. It is an important country and a friend of Italy, which plays and can play even more a key role for the economic and civil growth of the Maghreb and for that Euro-Mediterranean dialogue to which our country attaches a great deal. A great African power, a power with consolidated and relaxed relations with the West. We are convinced that Morocco will do this and more, even better on the day when a decade-long conflict will be freed. Therefore, as is evident to all colleagues and as was represented by the Deputy Minister, the one under discussion is not a partisan motion; it bears in fact the signatures of authoritative representatives of all the Groups. Therefore, such a broad proposition can allow us a broad and united vote that represents a concrete contribution to the peace and security of the Mediterranean. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this motion and calls on all Members to do the same and to make the will for peace of the Italian Parliament feel united. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u201	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, we will also accept your invitation. We will support Senator Vaccari's motion No 129 (text 3) and, of course, we cannot support Senator Cioffi's motion No 242, on which we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u204	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I rise to announce the favorable vote of the Movement for the Autonomous, Italian Socialist Party and MAIE Group on Senator Vaccari's motion 129 (text 3) with the additions proposed by the Government. In this sense we express the favorable vote by the Movement for the Autonomies, Italian Socialist Party and MAYE.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u207	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the same orientation by the Civic Choice Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u208	I would like to thank my fellow Members for these explanations of vote, which go even beyond what is done in the European Parliament. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 129 (text 3). Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 129 (text 3), tabled by Senator Vaccari and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 129 and 242 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 242. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 242 tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u209	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00214, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators, on initiatives to support the territories bordering Switzerland. I would remind my fellow Members that the sitting is due to be closed at 2 p.m. and that, having five speeches at the end of the sitting, we should all be able to proceed to the final vote, because it would be regrettable if we had to postpone the continuation of the debate until next week. I call Senator Crosio to explain this motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u210	Mr President, I would like to stress a matter of fundamental importance. Motion 214 recorded the cross-party sharing by the Groups, at least as far as signing and presentation are concerned: we are talking about the territories bordering the Swiss Confederation. We know very well that in this case we are talking about a country that is not within the European context, so the relationships and all the economic and fiscal issues that result have particular features. The territories concerned, which are mainly related to the Provinces of Varese, Como, Sondrio and Verbano-Cusio-Ossola, have always had important socio-economic relations with the Swiss Confederation, particularly with the Canton Ticino and the Canton of Graubünden. A fact about all I believe is fundamental to underline, that is the fact that these territories with which our country is bordering have given our people the opportunity to undertake economic activities, as well as to export that quality labour that has led to enrich also the neighbouring Switzerland. I quote a data on all: around the middle of the years Ninety we had about 30,000 borderers who went daily to the cantons Ticino and Grisons to work. Today, in the state of the art, this number has almost doubled: we have about 60,000 frontier. What is this due to? It is due to the fact that the economic crisis, which is attacking our country in a particular way, has dictated the conditions for which more and more people - unfortunately or fortunately, depends on the points of view - must go to the Swiss Confederation to make ends meet. And if that's all, we can say that we find part of the solution in our country and say that one of the most performing companies in the Lombardy Region, and also in Piedmont, is called Canton Ticino and Canton Grisons. But there is also another problem. At this time of serious economic crisis, conditions have been created for Lombardy and even Piedmontese companies, which at this moment not only suffer the problem of the economic crisis, but are also gripped by an extremely complex system Country, archaic and bureaucratic to the unlikely, find satisfaction in particular in Canton Ticino. In that reality we make the golden bridges to our companies, because they are of the highest quality and appealing, not only economically, but also because of their importance and their background, which the Swiss Confederation wants to have within its economic system. There are even targeted and funded projects from the Confederation, Bern, to facilitate this possibility. All this is creating desertification in Lombardy and Piedmont, and the figure is really worrying. We must also say that in recent years successive governments, all governments, have proved to be cold and refractory to this issue. Why? As long as the cow had milk to donate, everything was fine, and the neighboring territories were in second order. Today we are in a very critical situation. With this motion we call for a commitment to the Government to create the conditions for the important heritage that we have on our territories not to go out, not only from the country, but even from Europe, because I remember that Switzerland is outside of Europe. We call for compensation and competitiveness systems towards Switzerland, precisely in order to introduce a mechanism that creates the conditions to try to repair and protect - as I said before - an important heritage and to create a special tax and administrative regime that really has the possibility to buffer - solving will be very difficult - the competitive gap that, at this moment, the most performing Region of our country, that is, Lombardy, fails to support with the Cantons Ticino and Grisons. It is a really worrying situation: those who live in these territories are touching with their hands the difficulty that concerns more and more companies, which are real assets. I am referring in fact to my Province, in which, for example, we have an important sector, that of stone quarries: we fly in the area, but the work is done in Switzerland, so the stones are brought there to be cut and shaped, and then transported all over the world. This is out of all logic, but why is it then? Because the golden bridges are made to create the conditions for one to set up his own company: in a little more than a couple of weeks he gives himself the permits, the tax concessions and the important contributions, safe and certain from the Confederation. What does this produce? Desertification, taking away this heritage of our territory, which we have created in tens and tens of years. I just want to tell you to be careful, because a process has started that we will try to buffer, but for this important heritage that will no longer pay our children. To be a partisan, a province like mine, that lies at the borders of the empire and apparently, on the mouth of many, seems one of those rich, today is very in pain. We are in danger of finding ourselves in a position to no longer be able to recover, because we will not have the foundations and the socio-economic structure able to give an answer in the near future. This is very worrying, so I invite the Government to work: if President Renzi really wants to give important answers - as we believe - he has an opportunity, the one that has lost the governments that have succeeded in recent years; and I assume the responsibility to say it, clear and round: we have always tried to buffer, but little has been done, by the Berlusconi Government and so on, because they were the conditions of the country. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by genuinely calling on the House to reflect and share this motion, which is not just ours, but is widely shared and has a fundamental impact on our territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u211	I declare the debate open. Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion before this House actually raises a real, clear issue that deserves our attention, because it certainly affects all border areas and is particularly aggravated where these are also mountain areas. Let us briefly explain why: we know that mountain areas involve higher administrative costs for the public administration, for the greater territory to be administered and the lower population density. This inevitably results in fewer services for families and businesses, which automatically become higher costs for businesses in the budgets, thus a factor of less competitiveness, which is aggravated when neighbouring and neighbouring territories have strong advantages. In a period of crisis like ours, this is happening in a systematic and programmed way, as in the case mentioned, where you are at the borders with the Swiss territory. In principle, and also in fact, however, this concerns the borders with any territory, European or non-European that in any case can guarantee more services or even a tax advantage. Questioning how to intervene in this situation therefore responds to principles of equity and intelligence in the management of the budget, where the escape of entrepreneurship to neighbouring areas also involves the loss of revenue for the State, as well as a further impoverishment of the local fabric, already marked by the data I mentioned in the premise. The contents, therefore, are certainly acceptable. It may well be worth paying attention to the system, since, when it comes to tax matters, it is moving on a very delicate ground that makes it necessary to comply with the European directives in order to avoid running into the possibility of state aid. I would therefore say that, although it is acceptable, perhaps the commitment to implement these measures immediately should be mitigated in the system. In fact, it is not possible for our Government to implement measures which are, in fact, infringements of European directives. This does not mean that they are automatic, but proper verification is absolutely necessary. Moreover, to underline the relevance of what is being placed, I would like to point out that this House, just last week, dealing with the Delrio bill, has in some way given value to the principle that mountain and border areas deserve special consideration. In that place, they deserved it as far as the institutional system is concerned, which is certainly a matter of our own State. Here, as I said, we need to be very careful about the compatibility with the European directives. Inside these stakes, which I believe deserve a simple rewording (after verification of non-infringement with European directives), the content of the motion is certainly acceptable. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the signatories to add my signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u213	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u214	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u215	Mr President, the motion certainly has a plea for support, on which the Government is prepared to be committed, but - as has been pointed out correctly in the debate - to the extent that this commitment can be made. Indeed, the measures proposed by the proposed senators must be assessed in the light of European legislation, presenting the character of territorial selectivity, which is relevant for the purposes of the State aid framework. In particular, with regard to the Community compatibility profile, the introduction of the proposed favourable tax regime for certain Provinces of Lombardy does not appear to be able to fall within the category of regional aid currently eligible under Decision C(2013) 7178 of 25 October 2013, with which the European Commission has ordered the extension until 30 June 2014 of the Regional Aid Charter; nor can it be linked to any other aid framework compatible with the internal market. Therefore, the entry into force of these measures in support of the border areas of Lombardy could lead to a complaint of incompatibility by the European Commission in the exercise of its power of control over State aid. If, on the other hand, all this could find a European framework, I repeat that the Government finds correct what is stated in the motion, to the point that it is correct to think of it even from a broader perspective, that is also for other territories that are in a position to be cross-border compared to other countries with more attractive tax regimes. Having said that, the Government proposes the following rewording of the device: "Entrust the Government to act in the Community in order to verify the viability of a fiscal system of compensation and competitiveness, for the territories of Lombardy and Verbano-Cusio-Ossola border with Switzerland, as well as for other cross-border territories, by introducing rules to establish a special tax and administrative regime mitigated and simplified for economic activities, in order to compensate the existing competitive gap". With this rewording of the commitment, I give a favourable opinion; otherwise, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u216	As the authors accept the rewording, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u217	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u219	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I rise to ask for the motion to be signed and I am voting in favour of the entire Group of the Grand Autonomousists and Freedoms. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u220	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u222	Senator Candiani, I ask you to confirm whether you intend to accept the rewording of the device proposed by the representative of the Government. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we accept the rewording proposed by the Government, because, as we say in our own parts, it is moretost than nagott, it is mei pitost. I want to stress one important point, and I would like to ask the government for some attention. It is clear that in this case we are talking about the risk of an infringement procedure by the European Union. However, we must be explicit and say that in this case we suffer from the Swiss territory, because of a tax system that is more competitive from the point of view of costs and of doing business, an aggression that leads to depopulating the neighbouring territories. The territory from which I come, that is the province of Varese, is undergoing this fact in a particularly important way. This means losing gross domestic product and losing labour, which if it goes well then becomes cross-border, even with further difficulties: we will then see what will happen when we face the measure on the return of capital, what will be bilateral agreements, if they are respected or if they are cancelled. In short, it is a situation that becomes anything but stable. It is not just a question of saying that the European Union could say no because it is aid. We must make it clear to the European Union that we are suffering industrial and economic aggression and dumping, with our hands tied behind our backs. Instead, we must be able to lower the cost, as already happens in Lombardy, for cross-border bands, where the Region and the Treasury give up part of the excise duty, keeping on the territory the expenditure that would otherwise be done in Switzerland. This makes it possible to maintain gross domestic product on the territory of Lombardy, which would otherwise be lost and constitutes an important added value. I therefore declare the North-League Group's vote in favour, which proposed the motion for a vote, recalling finally a roundup of articles appearing in the press. There is an article - not today, but in 2005 - which says: "Do small and medium-sized enterprises emigrate to China? No: Switzerland is better. And so we continue, until we arrive to an article of 2014, published by Corriere della sera, in which it is said that that of Italian companies in Switzerland is an escape of unprecedented size. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about FIAT, which moves its registered office to the Netherlands or its tax office to London or the United States, to be listed on the stock market. In this case we are talking about the loss of the healthiest productive fabric: the one related to craftsmanship and small and medium-sized enterprises. The government must act on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u223	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u225	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am voting in favour of my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u226	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u228	FORMIGONI (NCD). Mr President, I have signed the motion and therefore, of course, I support it, but I would also like to offer a consideration to the Government, which kindly listens to us. The measure we propose does not involve any additional State resources, nor does it involve any less State revenue. This is not a welfare measure and it is not an aid measure. We ask that the Italian State and the European Union itself, since Switzerland is a non-EU country, calculates properly, I would say safely, what can be the results of the adoption of the measure that we propose. I also mention the precedent that my colleague Senator Candiani has already mentioned and that he then negotiated with the State, in the years 2000 and 2001, in my capacity as President of the Lombardy Region. Actually, it took us several months to convince the state to take the measure of lowering excise duties on fuels sold in the border bands (i.e. in the 20 and 30 km range). When the State finally became convinced and accepted, the state's revenues increased considerably, following the increased sale of discounted fuels compared to the previous time, but that Italian consumers resident in those border areas preferred to buy in Italy, instead of going to buy them in the nearby Swiss Confederation. Since then, from 2001 to the whole year 2013, the Italian State has collected more: there is talk of more receipts for the Italian State for tens of millions of euros as a result of that favourable tax regime, which allowed Italian consumers resident in those border areas to spend less. It has allowed those areas not to be deserted from the point of view of the presence of fuel distributors; it has therefore allowed several families that practiced that trade to continue to live. It is the typical win-win solution, where everyone wins and where, if anything, the Swiss citizens lose themselves; but the Swiss citizens do not fall under our jurisdiction and therefore it is not up to us to suggest measures to them. They have sufficient skill and have fought with us in a diversified way to try to recover those revenues. We must constantly update the tariffs; it is a nice trade war, but so far it has seen the winners of both the Lombard consumers, the Italian State and the European Union itself. I therefore ask the Government - and I am sure that this will be the case - to apply to the competent Brussels and Strasbourg offices so that the Commission too will make this calculation, and I call on the House to support this motion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u229	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u231	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all, I would like to be able to add my signature to the motion and announce the vote in favour of Forza Italia. I would like to make a very brief point, and I would ask the Government to take this into account. Forza Italia believes in the euro, but we cannot fail to take into account the fact that this situation is the thermometer of our country's decay. Switzerland is an economically prosperous country, the overall costs are high, and it has great respect for the environment. Well, small and medium-sized enterprises, in an extremely developed area of the country (the upper Lombardy region), decide to relocate to Switzerland because they find less taxes, efficient services and precise answers. This is the thermometer of our country's descent. So we are in favour of the motion and we hope that the European Union will understand the importance of the motion itself. But we invite the Government to consider - I see that the Undersecretary Zanetti is careful - that it is necessary that our country system recovers, because, if it does not recover, things of this kind will affect the whole country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u232	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u234	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, first of all I would like to say to the Presidency that all the Lombard and Piedmontese senators are calling for this motion to be signed. This is a motion that we share and that, with the changes proposed by the Government, we consider positively and on which we will vote in favour. I would just like to mention one thing, which my colleague Mr Del Barba has already said, also with regard to the things that Senator Formigoni said: I believe that the issue of the competitiveness of those territories, of the territories bordering Switzerland, and not only with Switzerland, is, of course, about tax concessions, and that there is also a problem, on which years of failure weigh, which concerns the infrastructure and the ability of those territories to build offers and economic opportunities for companies. The government will certainly have to open another chapter on this, but I wanted to remember that. The PD Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u237	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u238	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 214 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 13.34 p.m. and resumed at 13.56 p.m.) Resumption of the debate on motion No 214 (text 2) Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 214 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u239	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u241	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that our request to proceed to the vote by electronic means has nothing to do with the desire to interfere with the process of this motion, but it is linked to other principles. Since so many of us are present in this House right now, as it should be, we do not understand why others are already on a train, or on a plane and are on their way home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In respect of all of us - all of us who are present in this House at the moment - I therefore call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u242	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). ICHINO (SPI). I ask you to speak for a telegraphic explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Ichino: we are in the process of voting and we have already missed the quorum. I appreciate your will, because I believe you intend to vote in favour. ICHINO (SPI). No, exactly the opposite. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 214 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate is not a quorum. Resumption of the debate on motion No 214 president. Colleagues, at this point, appreciate the circumstances, I shall remove the sitting and postpone the final vote on this motion which will slip, as the first point, until next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-223.ana.u243	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.59 p.m.
