ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00187 (text 2) tabled by Senator Micheloni and other senators, and 1-00215, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators, on the reorganization of the diplomatic-consular network. I call Senator Micheloni to explain motion 187 (text 2), for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u5	Madam President, thank you for 20 minutes, but I will try to limit my speech. I shall read the motion before us. I would like to talk more about what is at stake than the content of the motion. I apologise to colleagues who will be bored hearing us talk again about the consular network. Madam President, it has been several years for us in this area of Parliament to try to dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The problem is that, in order to dialogue, it is usually necessary to be two, but this has never happened: a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs comes to the Foreign Affairs Committee or to the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad to tell us his vision and considers that he has dialogue, but that is not the case. I would like to point out that with this motion the senators elected abroad do not ask for a euro from the state budget, but propose solutions that bring huge savings. We are faced with something that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs calls resetting, resetting or restructuring of consular services, but in reality we are experiencing a slaughter of consular services abroad, with the closure of dozens of offices. How, then, can I say that we do not ask for money? We agree on the need to reform our consular network and our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, looking at what the world and the Italian communities in the world have become and also at the tens of thousands of new immigrants. If we look at these things, we ask ourselves very simple questions: what is the point of having 28 ambassadors in Europe today? What is the point of having six or seven consuls in Switzerland or Germany? In our opinion, at least for Europe, we no longer need diplomacy, but services to Italian communities and businesses: "to serve Italian companies" is not a swear word, but means to sell the work of Italian workers. We need a diplomacy formed - not as it is formed today - to go to the new markets, where the Italian community is not decisive, but where the country needs it, Italy needs it. Where, then, do we meet with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? The whole plan that is proposed to us is to close down the service offices and maintain diplomatic structures: but this does not save a lira. I take only the example of Switzerland, both in order not to imply other countries, and because, as you know, it is the one where I reside: there, a year ago, with the decrees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have been closed the consulates and three agencies; these closures in Switzerland, if all goes well, will produce 150,000 euros of savings (in fact, I want to be generous, today: let's say 200,000 euros). What we propose, according to a different view of services and presence on the territory, is to reduce to a single consul the presence in a territory like Switzerland (which means then to two in Germany, for example, according to a reasoning that applies to the whole planet). If we apply our recipe - reopening the closed offices and not closing the ones you want to close - only in a small country like Switzerland, we can estimate the savings in 3.5 or 4 million euros. I therefore believe that there are areas of dialogue, but that has not been possible. That is why we are now here on this motion and we ask the House to approve it in the terms in which we have proposed it. We also ask the Government and Deputy Minister Pistelli here to reflect well before expressing his opinion on this motion, because here we refer to a document that was drawn up by a Commission established after the passing review law was passed in this House, whose exact title was the invariance of services. That Commission has given the directives that I said before, namely less diplomacy and more services, but the plan put in place by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does exactly the opposite to the policy lines of this Government. And this motion is the only thing that fits into the government's policy lines. Then I ask the representative of the Government to reflect before giving a final opinion on this motion. I would ask colleagues to think about something else. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs appears to be something a little hard to grasp, which is all over the world and does complicated things. But this is not the case: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is one of the simplest companies in the State, and if politics will not be able to give precise guidelines to enforce what has been demanded and that the Government has committed itself to doing, namely a true revision of the expenditure to invariance of the services, if we will not be able to apply it to the administration of the Ministry easier to organize and to manage, you have to explain to me how this policy, this Government, will apply those rules to Ministries of other dimensions and of other scope, I think for example those of the interior, culture, education and health. I'd like to understand that. Our responsibility is really involved here. We are going to touch on the positions that have been acquired for decades, which have consolidated over time, and I realize this, but there is no war against diplomacy: there is an awareness that the world has changed. We have repeatedly proposed that we make an average of the costs of diplomacy in countries comparable to us, such as France, Germany and England. Instead, our diplomats have very different economic conditions. Within the Farnesina itself there are inconceivable differences: for example, we send a class of young diplomats, without having the title, to make ambassadors in some countries under insufficient economic conditions. I repeat, we have unacceptable things within the Farnesina itself. We are simply asking for a reorganization, and we are asking that our Ministry behave like the Foreign Ministries of other countries. For example, all major European countries have reduced the sending of metropolitan personnel abroad. Now in many consular offices, such as the British and German ones, we arrive at a ratio of eight to ten: eight people hired on site and two sent from their capital. We are still around the middle: we still send secretaries from Rome when you can hire staff on site. In addition, we have in the world a resource that others do not have: our millions of descendants. I have read this motion, where you find all the data and cities that have been penalized. I'll add two more things. In the technical report of the Decree of 6 July 2012, n. 95, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had the courage to write that the proposed plan takes into account the need to safeguard the managerial staff in service at the diplomatic representations and consulates of first class general. The opposite of what the expenditure review has dictated. The last point is important and also concerns our image abroad. Mr Deputy Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not responded to local authorities, and I have only two or three examples. The city of Wolfsburg has decided in its annual budget to make available to the consular agency and the antenna of the Italian Institute of Culture of Wolfsburg €78,000 per year to cover the expenses. We didn't even say no. The city of Saarbrücken has made locals available to save rent as long as it guarantees service to the Italians of that locality, but we did not even say no to the mayor of that city. Therefore, the local authorities that see the disaster that we are causing to our communities and our economy are also making themselves available. Madam President, I think I saved you ten minutes to finish my speech here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Micheloni, you have taken exactly the ten minutes that all speakers have at their disposal, indeed you have exceeded your time by one minute. MICHELONI (PD). I thought I was more generous. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It wasn't. MICHELONI (PD). I would ask Members to consider this motion before they vote. But above all - I repeat - I ask the Government to realize the opinion it will express: if it will give it in line with its policy, as our motion also provides, or if it will express it in total opposition to the lines it has set out, according to the plan that the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is putting in place. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u6	I call Senator Mussini to explain motion 215.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u7	Madam President, I begin my speech from a passage just emphasized by my previous colleague. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that we are discussing motions which, in appearance, relate to a specific area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' activity, which is part of the whole ministerial system, but which in reality deal with an aspect of a segment of great importance to our country. We know that in a world in which the economy is global and in which trade, in economic, cultural and growth terms in all respects, is now to be considered global, the foreign network of a country is fundamental. It is not only an appendage of a general system, which is the internal one of the country, but becomes an indispensable element of it, and it becomes even more so in a crisis situation. Our country, in reality, abroad continues to enjoy esteem and great consideration, especially for some aspects that characterize us. Among these the most important is certainly the cultural aspect that passes, first of all, through the language and that should not be considered an end in itself. Through the Italian language and culture, and the recognition that the latter has, there are also many other passages that have to do with taste, commerce and our products. In essence, the image of Italy that passes through a cultural and linguistic perspective is also translated into lasting economic benefits, of which our country has enormous need at this time. So the landscape to which we must give an answer has changed a lot over time. Senator Micheloni, who intervened before me, was elected to the foreign constituency, and therefore well represents a community rooted in the country in which he himself resides. We must, however, consider - the former Government had put it as one of the points of the foreign affairs dicastery's policy lines - that today we are witnessing a type of mobility that we can no longer just call emigration. It is a real mobility, that is migration flows strongly conditioned by a great variety and rapid change of economic interests. I'll add another aspect. This is not only about economic resources, but also about human resources. We have an extremely appreciated training system abroad: we export a large number of highly qualified subjects, which become a very important resource for the economies of the countries in which they go. Now we must try to understand how we can relate to this mobility, which is new. Is it a political interest or not that these subjects can remain linked to Italy? Is it a political and also economic interest that these subjects may have interest in returning to our country, or in any case to use their experience, which is born in Italy and continues abroad, as an instrument that falls on well-being, growth and the national economy? I believe that our network abroad must be treated and considered with great care, so that what I think is politically important we all consider important: an instrument of growth also for the interior of the country. What's going on now? To keep alive this relationship with Italy, as well as to keep alive the image that Italy gives of itself abroad, resources and investments are needed. Now, it has happened that the expenditure review, which has actually invested all sectors of public life, has clearly also affected the MAEC. The Commission to which my colleague referred, who was set up in 2011, was clearly and decisively concerned about the impact this saving would have. Senator Micheloni referred to the invariance of spending. I would like to read you two lines of the document that came out of this Commission, in which it is said that it is essential to continue in the action already undertaken to rationalise the foreign network, from the school presence, from the real estate, from the contributions to international organizations and in parallel to act in a multiannual perspective on the efficiency of the structure and on the quality of the expenditure, especially affecting the one for the staff, which represents 47.2% of the total also because of the progressive large reductions in the budget of the Farnesina. Now, what we have heard in this year of the lack of hearings and talks with the Foreign Ministry is exactly that. We all agree, in words, that the logic of linear cuts is not an acceptable logic, which however does not automatically result in efficiency; what we believe can have a guarantee and efficiency effect, even in terms of savings, is a broad perspective, that is, a plan that provides for a reduction of expenditure, but also a distribution of this reduction of expenditure, and not simply a closure of institutions, which is what has been proposed instead. In this respect, in addition to what my colleague said earlier and which concerns consular services in particular, I would like to take on board a note which concerns school services and cultural services. I would like to give you this: from 2008 to 2012, for a reduction in MAE spending of less than 30%, the school has been reduced by 81 percent; even cultural activities have been reduced by 89.6 percent. I believe that these figures should really surprise everyone in this House, because I have heard here a unanimous choir expressing the importance of Italian and Italian culture as a business card and as a key to opening important doors, both from the point of view of economic interests and from the point of view of effective foreign policy. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in my opinion, there are three legs: one is diplomacy, the other is cooperation, and the third is language and culture. If we, with these figures, yield on this third point, which is a significant portion of how abroad takes place the representation of our image, of what we are, I believe that we do wrong not only to those who are abroad today and see themselves deprived, in the immediate future, of consular and school services, but also, in reflection, to the way others perceive our educational system, our language, our culture, our taste, our ability, our creativity. I believe that this is a bad service that we also render to future generations. What we are therefore asking for in the motion's motion - which I do not intend to read (maybe there will be a more detailed opportunity for it to be resumed during the general debate) - is for a multiannual plan to be carried out, shared with this and with the other Parliamentary House, in which the actual savings that will be obtained from the various operations are clearly indicated. We also ask that we proceed not for linear cuts and for the closure of locations, but rather to make an assessment of what are the real and actual cost centres on which savings measures can be used. In our commitments, we also call for the opinion of the JTIE to be acquired and made public and for the intercourse to be increased with other institutions. In our motion we appoint the CGIE, an institution that, according to the legislation that established it, represents in an elective and accredited way the Italians abroad. It is mandatory to acquire these opinions, and we call for these partners to be involved in this process as well. In the final analysis we hope that in these operations of revision of the expenditure the Ministry will put itself in the condition to acquire, as it seems intended to do in general the Government, of the instruments of consultation of the Italian citizens abroad and to guarantee as much transparency as possible for all the operations of expense and savings. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Senators Montevecchi and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u8	I would like to inform you that the G1 agenda has been presented, signed by Senator Puppato, whose text is being distributed. I invite Senator Puppato to illustrate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u9	Madam President, what Mr Mussini and Mr Micheloni have already said in a very clear and explicit way is actually going back to me. The reality of the matter, Mr Pistelli, is that we have been dealing for a few months with the issue of our diplomatic networks and cultural institutions abroad in a massive form, with motions and questions that have been repeated over the last few months. Mine is an agenda which recalls a motion tabled in March and an urgent question which dates back to the first days of April. All this happens because there is a serious concern that we want to express as parliamentarians of this Republic having knowledge of the importance of the role of an adequate diplomatic network after the dismantling of the network of commercial garrisons abroad, the result of another horizontal cut not understandable (as my colleague Mussini correctly said) in a period of great globalization, where the promotion of its territorial reality and its brand, both economic and cultural, is one of the fundamental elements of growth, renewal and ability to compete of a country. It is truly incredible that we first dismantle the network of commercial garrisons abroad, no matter how inefficient or inappropriate or excessively expensive it may have been, and then progressively dismantle diplomatic networks and, above all, Italian institutes of culture abroad. Vice Minister Pistelli, I say this because I am deeply convinced that the model of spending review that we have adopted in such a pedissequo and not rational way - it has already been remembered - does not allow to achieve the desired economic results and causes damages and imbalances of economic character: damages that leave not only the 60 million Italians abroad, not only the new four million young Italians emigrated abroad, but above all an incredible amount of communities that have hosted our Italian institutes of culture, which offer, as my colleague Micheloni correctly and widely said, to support our costs, to correspond to our needs, considering an extraordinary value the maintenance of those cultural garrisons in their cities. It is incredible what has happened in Ankara, Lyon and what is happening in the major European and world realities, which consider the fact that there is an Italian garrison in their reality, more positive than Italy who believes that it can close them without responding to that need. The current Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done well to slow down these closures, to determine their suspension. With the motions and agendas presented, we ask to turn on the light, to be able to understand that these closures can certainly be reviewed in the light of the new ways proposed by which to present Italian culture abroad, our consulates and our embassies; as my colleague Micheloni has correctly observed, the number of employees from Italy could be reduced, even reducing the total operating costs. We must be clear - and I want to say this very strongly - that Italy is not spending rationally and appropriately on these issues, Mr Pistelli. The data tell us, first of all, that the cost of Italian diplomatic networks is exactly half that of diplomatic networks belonging to neighbouring countries, such as France and Germany, or comparable countries such as the United Kingdom; in terms of costs and size, Italy is on the same level as the Netherlands, whose size is one tenth of ours. We have already pointed out that only 46% of the staff of Italian embassies are local, while, for example, 82% of the diplomatic staff of the United Kingdom are recovered in countries where the British State has its own representation, while 60% and 74% are the percentages that come from countries such as France and Germany. Therefore, Italy has wide margins of improvement, without being forced to pull oars in the boat and to make new mistakes like those of cross-cutting, horizontal and without reasonableness and punctuality. I would also like to mention some data on the importance of maintaining the promotion of Italian culture abroad, not only because of the obvious repercussions on tourism and the obvious repercussions for the benefit of the principals already existing in the countries in which the Italian representations are located. The Italian language, despite everything, is currently the fifth most studied language in the world, the first choice as a third language in all countries of the world. This should make us understand how important others consider it to be to study Italian and to have knowledge of our culture. It should be noted that 142 schools and 242 rectorates are directly or indirectly linked to Italian institutes of culture abroad, with 400,000 students of which 80 percent are foreigners. It will come to mind also to us that a substantial part of these in turn will promote our culture, to come to our country, to visit and know it, thus creating positive flows of economy and knowledge. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Eurostat data shows that our country is 28th in the 28 Community countries (then last) for percentage budget values spent in the field of culture. I think that today this figure can no longer be acceptable, absolutely not comparable and certainly the result of a policy that has not, to date, been able to recognize culture first and foremost as an element of employment development. If these are the elements that we have, I believe that the comments already made by my fellow Members should be strengthened with the G1 agenda, with which I simply ask that we make a very timely assessment of the potential that we would be going to put out. It is necessary, in fact, to create truly ambassadors of culture abroad, certainly taking care to eliminate waste, but also to recognize the great merits and the great potential of self-financing of the structures present abroad. There are even cultural institutions that were put under the lens of the reduction and cancellation that actually self-finance and are active. I think we can't afford to make these mistakes. We strongly urge the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to accept this form of participation in the verification and the claim of an Italian garrison and potential in the Community and non-EU countries, taking care to increase the elements that can be productive and taking care instead to cut unproductive costs or waste that today are no longer justified. So, simply a desire for strong cooperation, a strong will to be able to see together and to evaluate on a case-by-case basis the situations that can be cut and those that must be resolutely promoted and strengthened. [[Applause from Senators Micheloni and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u10	We greet the students and students of the Istituto tecnico commerciale "Medaglia d'oro Città di Cassino" in the province of Frosinone. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u11	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Turano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate in this House is of extraordinary importance to the Italian communities in the world. The reorientation of the consular network is in fact a crucial argument in order to maintain the strong link between Italy and her emigrated children; a link that, however, risks being compromised by a restructuring of the diplomatic-consular network that has perhaps been planned too roughly. Italians abroad are well aware that, given the current economic situation in the country, a review of the expenditure is needed to optimize the resources and are ready to collaborate face-to-face with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to identify the most appropriate solutions to achieve the goal of spending review. They are not prepared, however, to accept a plan of cuts that does not guarantee the invariance of services. Three months ago the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, unexplainably, closed the Newark Consulate despite the many attempts to start a confrontation first. They closed a structure that provided basic services to the community to save $14,500 a year, and I'll explain the reason: the now closed office had an annual rent of about $200,000, but the Italian community, in order to keep the structure open, had set in motion and had identified and submitted to the Farnesina a series of properties with all the requirements and with an annual fee of $14,500. If you consider, moreover, that all the personnel of Newark did not return to Rome but was transferred to New York, it is evident that the only savings obtained are precisely those 14,500 dollars. Not one answer came from the Ministry to this effect. No one has thought to notify the 30,000 Italians concerning the Newark consulate of the suspension of the services at the counter. They have not explained what will happen to current practices, nor to whom and how to contact for information. Today those 30,000 Italians are forced to go to New York to obtain those services which, as Italians, are theirs by right. New York is not so close: to reach the consulate, despite a relatively short distance, there is a time of immense journey to be taken into account, in addition to the costs of accessing Manhattan. The area where the consulate is located, moreover, is not easy to access by public transport and parking for the car involves an expense that can easily get close to $100 for a few hours. In order to obtain savings, ladies and gentlemen, we must not close the consulates, but it is necessary to adjust the expenditure in excess: to limit the ancillary expenses, to move the seats in structures with lower rents, perhaps to return to Italy part of the staff of role that abroad really costs too much and to replace it with staff under contract hired on site. I think that's the way to go. The motion that we are discussing today asks precisely this: it says "yes" to a real and profound restructuring that however guarantees the services to millions of Italians, and it says "no" to a plan that - as it is conceived - can create several problems also to the Italian economy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Turano, please conclude. TURANO (PD). Because it is good to remember that the consulates also provide services to Italian companies that export abroad and to foreign companies that want to export to Italy. The repercussions that the closure of Newark is producing will also be heavy for the economy. New Jersey, in fact, is home to many Italian companies and American companies that operate in import-export with Italy. This assumes greater importance if we consider also the impact of Port Elizabeth on the Italian economy: Port Elizabeth, in fact, located on the coast of Newark, is the beating heart of the port of New York-New Jersey and all the container destined to the metropolitan area of New York and Newark arrive and leave from there; it is the 22nd largest port in the world and Italy has preferred to leave it. Maintaining a consular network that from services is not only important for Italians abroad, but is essential for Italy and the whole Italy system. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u13	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u14	Dear President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's - for many of us - is an important and awaited meeting; a moment of confrontation that has been called for for months, not only by Members of Parliament who are signatories of the Act, but by thousands of Italians living abroad, who, with petitions, demonstrations and strikes for months, have been trying to bring their voice to this House. This motion therefore and the point of arrival of a journey made of analysis of the needs of the Italian communities and the potential of our administration. It does not want to be a warning to the Government or to the MAIE; it wants to be a simple and clear invitation to reflection. A sober reflection, not shouted, that leverages the common sense of our country and its will to maintain its role, its credibility and its potential beyond borders. We do not confine ourselves to an aspect of a strictly organizational nature, as it might appear: the motion, of which I myself am proposing together with my colleagues, concerns the potential of growth and valorization of our country across borders. I remember that in countries where Italian emigration has been and is particularly consistent, our structures represent irreplaceable references. Therefore, any change, intervention or limitation on this side would reflect more or less conspicuously on the very image of our country. Mr Vice-Minister, we too believe that our structures should have the opportunity to adapt to social, economic and political developments. Administrative conservatism is not compatible with a globalised scenario and the growing need for digitisation. We also consider it a priority for a remodulation of the consular presence in these areas of new political and economic strategicity. I share and agree with the definition of a serious path of rationalization and optimization of the functionalities of the foreign network, also - and I say this - in harmony with what President Renzi wanted. In fact, what we requested with this act and with the many initiatives that preceded it, is not to safeguard the status quo, but to contextualize the potential and the role of our foreign network, adapting it to the times. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is a case-by-case assessment and first of all a comparison in the relevant offices, before proceeding with the closures. This is precisely the point: today's must be a choral analysis of the current configuration of the structure in the world, which takes into account our and your assessments, in order to arrive at a mediated and shared attempt of solution to the project of closures on which the administration seems to be unfortunately oriented. We are well aware that something has changed since the motion was tabled. Over the past few weeks, Minister Mogherini has signed the decree for the closure of the offices, leaving almost unchanged the plan of the previous Government. However, we have confidence in Mr Mogherini. Opening a decisive phase, unfortunately in a negative sense, of the issue, this sprint on a project sponsored by previous governments has deeply affected our communities abroad, precisely because it was placed well before the discussion of this motion, which in my opinion would have had the merit to clarify and explain and in the meantime obtain from the Ministry those answers that have so far been lacking. I would like to remind you that there is no legal obligation towards the closure programme of locations, considering that this is not provided for by the spending review and it is worth pointing out that the spending review does not talk about closures but about reducing waste, always and in any case to the invariance of services to the community. With 23 consular closures this invariance cannot be guaranteed. According to the administration, the reduction plan will make it possible to achieve economic savings and to recover human and financial resources to be reinvested in the network itself. We would like to know the real amount of these savings, considering that the possible ones are those of the rental costs of the structures and neglecting the fact that for some of them there are also proposals for free use by the local authorities. It is worth remembering that many of the structures that are closed are simple consular counters. Among these, I remember for example Nuremberg, Saarbruecken, Manchester and St. Gallen, already subject to scalings and cuts in the years ago. They are able to provide the necessary services to the communities themselves, which in these areas are between 20,000 and 45,000 countrymen each. These structures work excellently, as noted also by recent administrative inspections. As an example, let us look at the Nuremberg structure. I remember that in 2010 the consulate was closed, whose operating cost is quite ridiculous for the state's coffers, while guaranteeing, on the other hand, the coverage of the needs of about 35,000 Italians, allowing them to avoid moving about 800 kilometers towards the consulate of Monaco. The closing of Nuremberg would bring this amount of work on Munich, with an operational clogging. This window, like the others mentioned above, is a lightweight and effective structure, which even produces revenue needed to self-finance itself. This information, Mr. Deputy Minister, could be an interesting element to review the decisions taken by the administration itself, also because it appears quite clearly what the risks could be in terms of the management of consular services, in terms of the confidence of our fellow countrymen and of reflection on the on-the-spot relations with local authorities. Nor can we underestimate the call of the local authorities for them not only to maintain, but to strengthen existing structures. I remember with particular attention the note of the mayor of Nuremberg to the Italian ambassador Mention, last December. The administration, in order to legitimise the closures, used the need to digitise the consular functions and dematerialize their services. We agree with that, Mr Vice-Minister, but let us take a moment on what is really going on. I want to use, for example, the recent case of the London consulate: the passport office of the Consulate General, which has launched a program to open up to the public an ad hoc data collection desk to allow compatriots to make a request for the issue of the passport "from remote", recognizing the right only to AIRE members, exclude the majority of citizens and inserting a cumbersome and paid procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio, I invite you to conclude. DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, I should like to conclude by asking you to be able to deliver the text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. DI BIAGIO (PI). I therefore call on everyone to reflect, in order to arrive at a text and a shared commitment that will enable us to overcome the emergency situation and give serious and concrete answers to our fellow countrymen. [[Applause from Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u15	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u16	Madam President, I would like to say a few words in addition to what I have already said when I tabled the motion for which I was first a signatory. In particular, I would like to point out the contradictions that exist in the way consular offices are closed and opened. When we asked during the hearings held in the Commission to clarify the criteria for openings and closings, we were told that the main criterion is to strengthen the principals in all the nations and in all parts of the planet where there is the presence of growing economies, instead going to remove resources for Europe and for those countries where the services and the economic presence of Italian companies are already sufficiently guaranteed. Actually, there's a contradiction here. As my colleague Mrs Puppato, in Ankara, for example, said, the Italian Institute of Culture was closed, while in Istanbul continuous cuts were made on the school quota. It does not seem to me that Turkey is a country with which we do not have economic interests, so we do not understand the reason for these cuts. The Italian Institute of Culture in Thessaloniki has been closed, but it is still in an important position with regard to an Eastern Europe which, even recently, is also particularly important from a political point of view. On the other hand, we have heard that the reopening of the Consulate in Durban, South Africa, which had been closed in the past is assumed. We are told that the reason for Durban's reopening is because, during the World Cup in South Africa, there was a participation of Italy in major projects and constructions. The paradox is that the consulate of Durban, that it responded mainly to the requirements of a port in which the Italian ships are by now less and less frequent, has been closed for the whole duration of the operations concerning the World Cup and is reopened now that the whole story World Cup is closed. Again, it's about the staff. Making some calculations on the basis of the documents provided by Farnesina herself, it is noted that, in reality, more than two thirds of the staff of Farnesina are employed in Italy and Europe. This is based on the principle that the staff must be sent to the areas where the penetration and presence of Italian culture and economy are necessary. In addition, in the "Farnesina 2015" plan that has been handed over to us, there are many principles, also concerning Italian language and culture. The impression is that there are many projects, ideas, words and reflections, but that in the end the only reasoning that holds is to speak in theory and cut in practice. I would like to quote a document of 6 December 2012, the result of a seminar entitled "The dissemination and teaching of Italian language and culture abroad: actors, criticalities and good practices." A reflection of perspective. Then there is a commendable initiative, which will start in a few months, the States-General, always on the same subject. We continue to reflect and produce documents, but what is missing is a concrete relapse in terms of efficiency compared to all the aspects and criticalities highlighted by these documents. I wonder, therefore, when will we start a real, shared and planned restructuring that will be effective over time? Therefore, the call is to prepare a multi-annual plan and a real restructuring. There are, then, the modular and non-remodulating chapters: when we talk to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are always faced with this concept. There are some remodulating chapters on which action is taken. In fact, a long time ago, at the time of former Minister Bonino (of which Deputy Minister Pistelli is nevertheless a guarantee of continuity, at least of memory), an agenda had been adopted. Mr Micheloni reminded us that foreign affairs is, all in all, a small Ministry, which has certainly been the subject of rather substantial cuts, but on which perhaps it would be possible to activate good practices. Therefore, on the agenda accepted by former Minister Bonino, it was asked that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs be applied - as provided for in the State's accounting law - to the testing of the zero-based budget, which is - indeed - what we would hope, namely a revision of expenditure, not a cut. It is, in particular, a revision of the meaning of spending money in one way rather than another, rather than making cuts. The latter are certainly faster and are carried out by means of coefficients, on the soft parts of the expenditure, but do not allow to achieve efficiency. Finally, I recall that this is in everyone's interest. In fact, I must admit - and I am happy to do so - that our feluches are undoubtedly characterized by the considerable quality in the operations they carry out and in their presence abroad. However, we hope that the data will be more widely disseminated and clarified, because we would like to know whether they are actually real. That is, we call for greater transparency on wages within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to remind you that articles in the newspapers are regularly published on this subject and that this issue has also been dealt with by Mr Lavoice.info.info. The suspicion is that, in reality, there is a caste, which is not touched by cuts and savings. I therefore believe that, in the interests of the quality of the service offered, we must clarify the costs, the efficiency achieved and what these costs are reflected in. We therefore call on you to take a real look at the possibility of applying the points contained in this agenda. [[Applause from the Mixed and PD Groups and the Senators Simeoni and Petrocelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u18	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I would like to say that, as a signatory to motion No 187, tabled by Senator Micheloni, I would also like to subscribe, together with my colleague Mario Dalla Tor, to the text 2 of the same motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u19	I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u20	PAGE (NCD). Collegi senatori, Minister, are remarkable the positive repercussions that our country has recorded thanks to Italians resident abroad; I refer to the spread of Made in Italy and our culture abroad. We must consider all this as a valuable economic resource that goes against the difficulties of our Italian economy. There are many positive results thanks to the export that affects, among others, the equestrian design sector of food and wine. Political cooperation is due to consular structures and embassies, which play a fundamental role; this affects economic relations, development cooperation, cultural and scientific cooperation and services for citizens living abroad. The motion on the consular network under discussion today marks a direct point of action by both the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The reorientation plan presented to us provides for the closure of several embassies, consulates and institutions of Italian culture abroad in the name of the spending review. I have had the opportunity at several meetings to receive the requests of our communities abroad and to reflect, in particular, on the serious problems that, following the closure of embassies and consulates, we risk affecting both the community and the Italian economy. The cuts made in recent years have resulted in the decommissioning and closure of consular structures penalising our Italians abroad: we are talking about almost 40 offices between consular agencies, vice consulates, general consulates and cultural institutions. Almost 50% of our offices abroad are hit at a time when they need more support, while we have examples of superimposed diplomatic structures that certainly do not give the feeling of saving. Repetitions have been made by the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad to address this issue, but they have not produced any openness. You can safely save money by making choices different from those that have been made so far. What is the sense of centralizing services in a consular hub? The costs relating to the diplomatic corps and the staff sent from Rome on the move will weigh much more economically. On the other hand, considerable savings could be made by employing staff on the spot. The costs would be considerably reduced and much more efficient and needs-oriented services could be offered. It is therefore strongly asked to suspend all the decisions that have been taken regarding the reorientation of the consular network, also because the General Council of Italians abroad did not express its mandatory opinion, as provided for by law n. 368 of 1989, article 3, paragraph 1, letter e). I also believe that the competent parliamentary committees should be able to examine and discuss a new reorientation plan for the whole network and the diplomatic consular services in the light of the 2012 report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but, above all, in the light of the work programme of the Extraordinary Commissioner for the revision of Cottarelli spending. I hope that, in the end, this motion can see the light and that the Government can review the whole issue by accepting the comments made, because the stakes are the maintenance of those essential services useful to Italy and our communities abroad. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the senators Micheloni, Di Biagio and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u21	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few small points by asking you to be able to attach the full text of my speech to the shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u23	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u24	Mr Giacobbe (PD). In my opinion, the motion we are debating today is a problem of method and substance. In the past a wrong method has been chosen, in particular ignoring the opinions of those who could have helped to formulate more suitable solutions; the essence is that these decisions have produced and, if not reconsidered, will continue to produce conflicts, disappointments and economic damage to our country. Logic and reason suggest that a serious assessment of the functions performed in the local reality in which it operates should be made before deciding on the closure of a consular seat or a cultural institute. It should then follow an assessment of the negative effects that the possible closure could have and at this stage it would be not only desirable but necessary to involve local communities. The next step is to avoid negative effects, or at least limit them, by identifying alternative services and complementary skills. Unfortunately, in all cases of the past, this has not happened, and today we say it is time to change. We believe that our representations abroad carry out an excellent job, for representation, for industrial relations, for the promotion of the Italian system from an economic and cultural point of view and for citizenship services; but two issues arise, which I submit to you: do we believe that these four roles are of equal importance? If someone thinks that they are not, then it is good to close this debate; if we think that they are of equal importance, then we should start working together on a very simple goal: to save you do not need to close the premises, because you can do so by reorganizing the operating processes on the basis of efficiency and effectiveness. I don't think you simply save by closing the offices of cultural institutions (some of which, among other things, were even active and produced earnings), but instead every euro spent to promote and teach the culture and the Italian language in the world will return to Italy thousands of times: it is only if we think so that we can consider spending as an investment and therefore find the necessary resources to develop a new interest in our beautiful land and Italian products. For example, in the field of cultural institutions, I would expect that in order to obtain savings a global strategy for the promotion of Italian culture in the world would develop, organizing here in Rome resources and initiatives that can then be made available to individual cultural institutions on site, enhancing and involving in the promotion programs also the many Italians in the world who play important roles in the local cultural institutions. To ensure citizenship services it is not necessary to have consulates or consulates general, but it is necessary to have offices of services. You can save money on rent, opening offices where our countrymen live, on the outskirts or where the rent costs less. You can save money by employing local contract staff, which not only costs less, but is also able to guarantee an appropriate and efficient service. We also need, and above all, more attention, Mr. Deputy Minister, to how the organizational structure of the Ministry is adapted to the present and future needs of services to citizenship in the world. We do not talk about the telematic network, which would allow immediate answers and huge savings: at the moment, however, to have an appointment for a citizenship case in Sidney, for example, it takes eighteen months of waiting (and then ironically there is someone who complains because the person who asked for the appointment 18 months ago then does not show up). I believe that, by applying this new method in a serious and convincing way, it is possible to maintain the consular services and ensure the diplomatic presence in the world without cuts in the network, but simply by remodulating the organization of the offices; on the contrary, I think that we could open new offices of services and for the promotion of the Italy system. Here, Mr. Deputy Minister, let's start with these things: let's not commit the mistakes of the past, but let's apply a new working methodology that includes the identification of objectives, the definition of roles and therefore the analysis and allocation of resources, to start a serious process of rationalization of staff and administrative procedures; then, if still necessary, together with the Ministry, the institutional organizations and the communities concerned will be able to draw up a plan of interventions that do not penalise Italy and the Italian citizens in the world. That is the commitment we are asking the Government today, and in particular the bureaucratic apparatus of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Mussini and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u25	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u26	Madam President, I have listened very carefully both to the presentation of the motions and the agenda by the senators, Micheloni, Mussini and Puppato, and to the debate that followed. I have to say, since I have spent many years in the other branch of Parliament, that we must perhaps agree on this tyranny rule that I should, in ten minutes, respond to a debate that has been awaited for months and during which many different issues have been raised. It would be regrettable for me, but I also believe that my colleagues who listen (for many years I have been in their shoes, both in the majority and in opposition), should I have to limit myself to a so-called minimum union response, simply saying what conditions I accept or do not accept, on behalf of the Government, the texts that have been presented this afternoon, instead of engaging in a first discussion on many of the issues that you have addressed. If the Presidency is gracious, I will try to follow, as best I can, a middle way not to evade the issues that have been raised. The time of the debate and also the politically congested way with which everyone has taken advantage of this window to unload into such different issues, is a bit of a metaphor for what has happened in recent years. We have come from a political time in which, to put it simply, we deal - it happened yesterday afternoon in this House, where I was representing the Government - very tired of ratifications, as an obligation that cannot be avoided, but which is perceived with the same pleasure as a session by the dentist, we periodically listen to the Foreign and Defence Ministers when they talk to us about the current crises, the hot ones, those in which we have military personnel employed abroad etc. and very rarely - and today it is really an exception - we discuss the box of tools, the instruments with which a country exercises, as it does, with the Government protempore, its international projection. If we talk about the costs of this machine or the necessary cuts, we come from a time when this has been done, when it was good, with the logic of silent linear cuts and, when it has gone worse, with the logic of the syncopated obligations of a European directive to which we had to correspond in the course of weeks raking resources where we found them, opening the first useful drawer available. This is where we come from. If the metaphor of time is accepted by the Members of this House, today I would like to tell you that there might be an alternative, which obviously has conditions on which the Government must meet not only its majority, but the Senate complex and - I say - Parliament, because the foreign policy and the international projection of a country are not the subject of the Government or its majority, but are precisely international projection of the entire country. The first question about time is as follows: let us, assuming that this is a stabilized legislature, take the time necessary to put a little bit of hand back, one by one, to the individual instruments that you have mentioned in your speeches. This means creating together - and, I add, not only with Italians elected abroad, because it would be a very singular and strange thing that the international projection of this country simply interests those elected abroad and does not interest other colleagues too - a timetable of work with the themes you have evoked: language, culture, school, diplomatic-consular network. But I can add other things that you haven't mentioned, but that come out from time to time. I am referring, for example, to the economic projection of this country. I would like to talk a quarter of an hour (and I would be quite synthetic) but it is not possible, what has happened in recent years on the economic projection of the Italy system, and how it is clinging to the possibility of recovery of our economy, which instead does not find space in domestic demand, giving you positive and comforting numbers on what our international projection is doing from the economic point of view. I would like to talk about the accompaniment of our communities, and not only those daughters of the traditional historical emigration of our country, but those of the new Italian expat communities that, by geographical area assigned to me, meet more frequently. I returned only last week from some Gulf countries where the number of Italians grows by 30% each year, and it is clearly a matrix of emigration and skills that is entirely different from what we sometimes talk about. I would not even like to forget other functions that sometimes, perhaps short manu or informally, are signalled to us: from the recovery of Italians lost in crisis areas (some, unfortunately, still lost today) to the ability to have to help fellow countrymen who are in difficulty, to greet with a smile and a gesture of hope the children of Congo arrived this morning in Italy [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Di Biagio, Lanzillotta and Liuzzi]] , after a negotiation and a silent effort that has required a lot of effort for many months. Our diplomatic-consular network and international cooperation are made up of this and many other aspects. I would like to know that, if we start a work programme, it must not end with an opinion on the motions this evening. For this reason, first I try to avoid it but, having heard the debate by now, I pray everyone to escape perhaps from tones or forced readings, even - let me say - a little distorted, when we tell some numbers or some stories. Let me start with something. I'm sure I won't mention so many, ma'am, but I'm really gonna try to contain myself. The first is that of numbers, in the sense of the total resources we have available. It is right that we say words (let me say not definitive, because we hope to be able to change them) of truth: a country cannot have an effective foreign policy action if it does not have a machine equipped with adequate human and financial resources. At this moment, net of public development aid, which is a calculation that is made for all the countries with which we compare (and you know how hard the battle is to bring back cooperation to acceptable levels in this country, in rules and resources), the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs affects 0.1 of the gross domestic product (and we are a country that belongs to the G8 and has all the commitments you know) and 0.2 of the state budget. If we go beyond the Alps, we find France with 1.78 and Germany with 1.15. Do not be deceived by the 0.3 of Britain, which does not consider in its calculation a whole series of functions that we assume within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which, on the other hand, the Foreign Office entrusts to external agencies, so they are not accounted for. I add (sorry, but it is not a note of respect for important partner countries, but a homage to the historical truth) that, when some of you refer to countries that we consider today to be demographically small (it has alluded to Holland, and someone has spoken of Belgium), not to mention the great ones like France and Great Britain, we speak of countries that have in their past a history - let me say - not colonial but imperial, global projections that go back two or three centuries, and that therefore have in their national DNA, a DNA older than ours, an idea of the ambitious world and an idea of themselves in the equally ambitious world. This must be taken into account, because we live in a country, ours, which has ambitious ideas on the eve of the World Cup, but not as ambitious when it comes to discussing the law of stability that assigns the Minister of Foreign Affairs and foreign policy the necessary resources: at that time so many times the debate folds, it suddenly becomes very national, and the idea of having adequate human and financial resources goes down. Let me not quote a much less winged proverb that we do not have a wedding with dried figs, but we need to have an economic, financial, and human resources idea adapted to the rhetoric we use within these classrooms. Otherwise, we either resize rhetoric or adjust resources: hic Rhodus, hic jumps. Secondly, I would like to say that it is not true that we do not have an obligation - I do not remember who said so - to review our diplomatic-consular network: that is not the case, and you know it. Decree-Law No 95 of 2012, which is the mother of the spending review, told us not only to reduce expenditure, but also to reduce structures: therefore, we are respecting a mandate that our Parliament has voted on. Let us not then say that we are doing something that is not required: it is Parliament itself which, within an important measure, has asked everyone, and also the MAEC, to play its part in the revision of the network and, therefore, also in its reduction. Then there is the theme of services, but I will come later. I would also add that our contribution as an Administration to the spending review takes place not only with the theme of the network. It comes with the subject that we are currently entrusting to amendments, because of the syncopated nature of our work, relating to the revision of the economic treatment abroad of our staff; it is already happening in fact through the revision of contributions to international bodies and bodies; it is happening through the engagement of a reformist action on a different use of our real estate. Unfortunately, we cannot do this in vitro, that is by stopping and suspending for a moment the activity of the world and ours, but we do it as the world goes on. I would add that I ask Parliament on behalf of the Government to give us a hand in this work of reformism that will continue, because the Ministry first is interested in having an action not defensive, but - let me tell you - asserting projection abroad and because, if this does not happen, we would automatically return to the precautionary provisions, which then become linear cuts, that is exactly the logic that we would like to reject. But in order to do this we need this work plan, which together, the Government and Parliament, can do. I do not want to speak on the many individual cases mentioned both within the motions and on the agenda and in your speeches. Let me say that you are all - I say it in quotes and with a smile - "professionals" and therefore you know that every Government, even that which changes one part of its staff and maintains another, for a principle of continuity inherited from decisions. If we did the sport to review every time the decisions made by the previous government, this country would not go forward by an inch. So we have to understand that there is a principle of continuity on decisions taken. Let me also say (for in my previous life I always dealt with foreign affairs in a different function, not spoken of, but of party, which led me to travel a lot, without geographical distinctions, in the four corners of the globe) that I never happened, in ten years of work, to find a place where the existing diplomatic and consular headquarters or the Italian community that I met told me that I could also close, because nothing was needed. Generally, the logic is always to maintain, to strengthen, what is there and, if anything, to open where we are not. This clearly becomes incompatible with the times we are living. Therefore, we must meet in the reorientation of the network, understanding where it can be actually lightened, following established practices also from other countries, where we can be innovative in ways of relationship with local communities (which have different needs in different continents) and with local institutions, which offer to us different models of collaboration, but - I add - innovative compared to the practices to which we are accustomed. The latter, therefore, cannot all be taken together, knowing that the MAE is also obliged to follow rules, relations with the other administrations of the State, etc. When, in November 2013 (at that time I was not there), the General Assembly of the CGIE was held at the Farnesina, you know that, simply following the legal obligations, the Ministry could ask the CGIE for an opinion on a list of closures already blocked. It wasn't like that. A dialogue has been opened. You may have been dissatisfied with this dialogue, but it has been opened. Sometimes dialogue meets the consent of the person with whom it dialogues, sometimes not. In that case, however, the minimum trade union level was not achieved by the Administration, but a relationship, sometimes satisfactory, sometimes unsatisfactory, was opened. This must be acknowledged. Secondly, you know that the current government and Minister Mogherini, already in the first programmatic hearing, have inherited a package and have innovated on that package, expunging some closures and modifying in some way the map of the planned closures, with the attempt to safeguard the theme of the promotion of Italian culture abroad. Thirdly, as I said, there is an ongoing rethinking of the ways in which you can maintain what you call the invariance of services, i.e. closing a representation but maintaining the services that were provided there. It is the theme of the Hub Consulate, the theme of light services (call it whatever you want). On this too we are, at the same time, experimenting and looking at what other administrations do. However, I would like to point out that the countries that you have mentioned as countries that invest much more and that have much longer networks than ours in this country have closed almost all of their consulates. This means that we must not be afraid of closure as such. The British have closed three, the Dutch two: it is an ongoing process, because everyone is experimenting, in these years. Finally, there is the vexed question of the relationship between role-playing staff abroad and contractists. You know that there is a trial going on here too. You may be satisfied or dissatisfied, but it is difficult to claim that the Administration has remained immobile in these years. Since 2007 contract staff has increased by around 300, and in the same period the role of 75 diplomats and 300 units in functional areas has been reduced. Considering, as Senator Micheloni correctly said, that we are not talking about a gigantic structure but about 900 diplomats and some other hundred units of administrative staff, increasing by 300 or reducing by 75 is an important operation. Can we do more? Yes. Can we do better? Yes. We're going in that direction. However, let us be quite frank that we all know that for certain functions and in some places in this world we can work with contract staff, but let us not be told that in areas of crisis or difficulty or in areas potentially fragile assignments in the digital office and in the ambassador's secretariat can be assigned to contract staff. There is therefore a modulation in the technical-political choices that must be taken into account the very delicate structure that we have before us. In essence, I would like to say: there is a journey in motion. I understand that the tone you hear in the debate and also in the narrative parts of your tools of direction stems from the perception of a delay in the action with which the Governments as a whole have been concerned on this type of theme. On behalf of the Government, I say to you that, with a stable period of time and with a work plan that is not syncopated, episodic and random like the one from which we come, there is the full willingness to work on the box of instruments. In fact, I repeat: a country that does not adapt the instrument box to the rhetoric of its speeches is a country that either errs politics or errs rhetoric; and we cannot, of course, afford either thing. For these reasons, I would like to ask the authors to consider some rewordings. In the case of motion 187 (text 2), with the first signatory, Senator Micheloni, the Government accepts point 2 of the device and asks to replace points 1), 3) and 4) by the following device: to prepare quickly, in the locations subject to closure measures, also on the basis of a comparison with the local institutions, alternative light instruments of cultural presence and provision of consular services. This is a definition that takes into account the different modes of relationship that we have in the forums that have been the subject of the narrative part of the motion and the speeches that we have heard in the debate. With regard to the G1 agenda of Senator Puppato, who addresses the important issue of Italian institutes of culture abroad, which we have neglected, I read the proposal for rewording the device, because there are more specific interpolations. Point 1) would become: "to plan policies for the relaunch of the action of the IICs, including through the rationalization of the use of resources through the revision of operating expenses, considering the desirability of a greater use of local contract staff to use maximum transparency in the procedure of choosing directors and other positions in the IICs, in order to avoid the occurrence of abuses in the selection and in the performance of functions." I want to say frankly that we are well aware, as you are, of individual cases that have had the honour of reporting even in recent months. There is therefore an overall rethink of the ways in which, depending on the various locations - which you know are otherwise listed - the choice of management staff can be made. On the other hand, the rewording of point 2 of the proposal is as follows: To ensure greater transparency in the management of CIIs by facilitating the adoption of measures to facilitate the consultation by citizens of certified budgets. I have nothing against online publications, but on the fact that we accept that such arrangements are explicitly provided for in an agenda arrangement, we would like to make a somewhat broader argument with you. Let us consider how it is technically possible to facilitate consultation by citizens of certified budgets. On the other hand, the operative part of motion 215 contains commitments substantially identical to those contained in the motion tabled by Senator Micheloni and others. Therefore, in the light of this I would ask the presenter to replace the part of the motion relating to the commitments requested by the Government with the part of the reformulation proposed by me in motion No 187 (text 2) of Senator Micheloni and others whose contents take into account the need, for a verse, to present for the future a plan in which they would in fact include all the elements inserted in detail here and, for the other verse, as regards the decisions taken, to remain at the core business of the request of Senator Micheloni and the other signatories, that is, how to guarantee the services in alternative ways, not being able to go back on decisions to which we are bound by a principle of continuity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u27	I ask the presenters if they accept the rewording proposals put forward by the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u28	Madam President, if you will allow us, we would just like to ask for a few minutes to suspend the work so that we can draw up a joint text for the two motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u29	All right. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 6.04 p.m. and resumed at 6.14 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I give Senator Micheloni the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u30	Madam President, thank you for your patience. We would have found an agreement to converge on the text of a collective agenda that will collect all positions, starting from the motion at my first signature: The Senate, in the examination of the motions on the reorganization of the diplomatic-consular network, commits the Government (the second paragraph of motion n. 187) to present to the competent parliamentary committees a plan of reorientation of the network and diplomatic-consular services following the directives contained in the law on the revision of the expenditure invariance of the services, the report of the Commission spending review of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2012 and the lines indicated by the work programme of the extraordinary commissioner for the revision of public expenditure Carlo Cottarelli; Then we move on to the proposal of the Deputy Minister Pistelli, which is the second paragraph of the device and which reads as follows: "to prepare quickly, in the premises subject to closing measures, also on the basis of a comparison with the local institutions, alternative light instruments of cultural presence and the provision of consular services; " The third paragraph comes from Senator Puppato's agenda and reads as follows: To plan policies for the relaunch of the action of the Italian Institutes of Culture, also through the rationalization of the use of resources through the revision of the operating expenses, considering the opportunity of a rational use of staff under local contract, and to use the maximum transparency in the procedure of choice of directors and other positions in the Italian Institutes of Culture, in order to avoid the occurrence of abuses in the selection and in the performance of functions; The fourth paragraph commits the Government to ensure greater transparency in the management of Italian Institutes of Culture, facilitating the adoption of measures to facilitate consultation by citizens of certified budgets; The last paragraph, taken up in motion 215, by Senators Mussini and others, reads: It shall indicate analytically, for each individual intervention of reduction or reorientation of the foreign network of the Ministry, the savings expected to be achieved. On this unified text there would be an involvement of the three presenters and therefore all the other texts are withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u31	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the unified text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u32	The Government's opinion on the unified text is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u36	MARAN (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of my Group, but I would just like to stress two points and make two points. Although the reorganisation of the diplomatic network has been necessary for a long time, the motion clearly points out that the blockade of diplomats and internal administrative staff has once again put all its influence into practice by cutting in a linear way a number of seats without touching, however, a fundamental key of the chapter of expenditure of the Mae concerning the premises: I refer to the excessive numerical weight, with the consequent costs, of the staff of role sent from Italy and included in the consular network, usually in the administrative field, compared to the staff contracted on site. This leads to significantly higher costs due to mission allowances, accommodation reimbursement and travel refunds. To give a very trivial example, the Australian embassy in Rome, in addition to the ambassador, has only three diplomats of role, and the rest of the staff is Italian with temporary contract, while the Italian embassy in Canberra has exactly the opposite relationship between staff from Italy and local staff. The Italian embassies often bring the driver from Italy, which obviously does not make sense and leads to unnecessary costs. (18.19) (Follows MARAN). Moreover, the motion shows from the beginning that although the original proposal of the MAE involved a closure of seats with the aim of opening others in more important areas, the proactive part is at the moment completely absent, nor any indication or prediction of new openings has been provided. There is a point of weakness, in my view, which I have also seen reflected in the considerations of Deputy Minister Pistelli: the motion is very centered, understandably, on the world of Italians abroad, on their needs and their geographical presence, and for a country like Italy, which has known and still knows migratory waves towards other States, the question of compatriots abroad is undoubtedly important. Of course, however, foreign policy must also be able to look at other factors, and the strategic vision of Italian foreign policy cannot be so limited, in the sense that the challenge for our country is to elaborate a more modern vision of the diplomatic network, mainly oriented, as the vice minister Pistelli has said, besides the traditional political relations, to the support of the economic system both as regards the support of our embassies to the opening of new markets for the Italian companies, and for the promotion of the Italian system. Commercial opportunities, attraction of foreign investments, attraction of tourism: these are central elements for the country's growth prospects, and the MAE must play a more active role, for example by better coordinating its foreign offices with those of the National Tourist Board, the Institute for Foreign Trade and so on: a coordination that, as we all know, is currently particularly lacking. One case apart is that of Italian institutes of culture that, although very important on paper, have completely lost a strategic direction. On this would be useful a reflection with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and with the Ministry of Education. It is a reflection to which it would be worth contributing, in view of the presentation of the reorganisation plan referred to in the motion. Precisely because it is a moving scenario, we need light and alternative instruments, and we would like to contribute to this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u39	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, the ongoing reorganization of the diplomatic-consular network is a clear demonstration that in Italy, more than politics, count, make, brigano and affect more bureaucracies, diplomats, executives placed for life in the Ministries, this true caste. In fact, for the responsibility of politics - sometimes bad, sometimes superficial - the reorganization of the network has been decided by that undergrowth that defends positions of rent and self-fential, to the detriment, instead, of the primary objective of the diplomatic-consular network and of the institutes of culture, that is to protect and project globally the political, economic, cultural and linguistic interests of our country and our compatriots. Following the questionable decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MAE) to dismantle the consular network, in recent months in the communities of Italian residents abroad a worrying and contrary situation has arisen: 4.5 million people to which are added the millions of Italian citizens of descendants. There has also been a great deal of discomfort among the local authorities. To sum up, the MAE does not consider the consular network to be a heritage and a showcase of the country abroad, able to offer protection and support services to citizens and businesses. The reorganization in place is not at all in favor of the interests of Italy in the world, nor of those many young Italians who, no longer putting hope in our country, now failed, go abroad in search of luck. Just this morning the press was talking about 100,000 young people who have been abroad for the past five years in about fortune. We call ourselves a cultural power, but with the dismantling of the consular network, our cultural and linguistic heritage cannot be promoted as before. The MAEA has not received a single positive opinion all over the world on this matter. Also under the new Mogherini guide, with a decree entitled "Reorientation of the consular network" the 2013 plan of Minister Bonino is proposed. Mogherini has announced the closure of four diplomatic offices of little importance, in Honduras, the Dominican Republic, Iceland and Mauritania, inactive and even - the last two - non-existent. The Ministry continues to outline to Parliament and Italy a picture of the reality that exists only in the narrow circles of the Farnesina, but not in the reality lived by the Italian communities abroad and, above all, not in favor of the vital interests of Italy in the world. What is needed is a true reform of the MAEA, in line with the Commission's work set up in 2012 for the revision of the Ministry's own expenditure, which must be to the invariance of services to citizens, services that must be preserved and not cancelled through the logic of linear cuts. That work is divided into several points, of which I shall list the five in our view as the main ones. The first is less diplomacy and more services, and the same diplomacy formed for the economic and cultural promotion of Italy in the world. The second is the modernisation of services, including through the extension of the professional profiles of staff. The third is the rationalization of Italian real estate in the world: in this regard, it is worth pointing out that there are 20 million rented and that in several countries there are offices in the same city. The fourth point is to develop, qualify and regulate the recruitment of staff on the spot, with a gradual reduction in the sending on mission of staff of Farnesina's role, much more expensive: only 46 percent of the staff on the total is contracted, and costs a third (this is a long distance from the European standard, which has much higher percentages, up to reach 82% in the case of Great Britain. The fifth point, finally, is to reduce the role teachers at our schools abroad, by replacing them with locally employed teachers. The programme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in part already in place, unfortunately goes and will go in the opposite direction to these proposals. You want to make it look like you're reforming and rationalizing the Ministry while you're not changing anything. This is a reform dictated by a single purpose: to safeguard the comfortable economic conditions of Italian diplomacy. Just read the nebulous report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, called "Farnesina 2015" in order to understand that it is a cat paddle operation. The President of the Council, Renzi, said in this House, during the discussion of trust, that it is vital for the country to reform and simplify public administration. Well, with motion 1-00187 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator Micheloni, whom we shared, there was a real opportunity for the Executive to implement this principle and to show that the Government could take it seriously, and that statements are not just a slogan. The proposal allowed to modernise and expand the provision of services for the good of the country and of Italians residing abroad, while at the same time producing a reduction in public expenditure. With the approval of that motion, the Senate had the opportunity to demonstrate to citizens and public administration that politics is at their service and not subordinate to corporations, which are in fact the real problem of our country. With the reduction of the two motions and of the agenda to a simple agenda, and therefore to a simple act of non-binding direction for the government, everything fades away. That is why the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will abstain on the vote on the agenda. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u42	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, we are partially satisfied with the rewording made at the request of Senator Micheloni of the three documents presented. Appreciating the intent to focus the Government's commitments on the most significant aspects, characterizing our vast diplomatic-consular network, we consider that in fact this reformulation represents an opening of credit to the Government. I hope that this will be appreciated. The signatories to the motions and the agenda acknowledge the need on the part of the government to respect the constraints and the legislative limits, which have gradually accumulated over the last few years. It must be made clear that the point is not so much the reduction of expenditure, but how this is done. It is the logic that must change, the cumulation of laws to which reference must be made in order to orient the cuts of the expenditure. The comparison between the budgets of the various Ministries of Foreign Affairs of various European States, made by the Deputy Minister, may seem merciless for Italy, but - let's say - it is equally valid, if not more, for many other sectors. The Government is recognized the willingness, within the consular services, to propose alternative light services, possible mainly thanks to the diffusion of new technologies. Positively, moreover, we read the guarantee of transparency promised in clarifying the savings that reorientation interventions (I make a brief linguistic parenthesis: this diction denotes only a pitiful way not to call them as they are, that is, real cuts) will be able to produce for the benefit of the coffers of the State. On the other hand, it regrets the unwillingness to suspend at least temporarily all decisions on the reordering of the diplomatic-consular network, precisely to review together - Government and Parliament - the current situation and to share possible interventions on the basis of objective criteria. In this sense, I repeat, it is an opening of credit, in a collaborative spirit which we hope will be seen more often in this House. Of course, we do not know how satisfactory the reorientation plan for the network will be, but we sincerely trust that cooperation between the Government and Parliament can be effective and useful. With this in mind, hoping not to regret it, I announce the vote in favour of the Mixed ILC Group. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u43	Thank you, Senator Orellana, for the summary, which I hope will also be emulated by the following colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u46	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as has clearly emerged from this debate and as appears also to emerge from the words of the Deputy Minister, our diplomatic-consolary representations represent the highest and most institutional expression of our country abroad. It is therefore an institutional reference towards which to ensure respect, together with the definition of appropriate and contextualized strategies for optimising tools, services and functionality. I welcomed with interest the metaphor you used, Mr Vice Minister, about the need to adapt the toolbox to the ambitions of this country. But, basically, we and you, Mr Vice-Minister, say exactly the same thing. As has been widely pointed out by myself, but also by other colleagues, there is no fight here to maintain the status quo. We have never asked to block the closures, but we have asked the Ministry to review some decisions. That's all. It would be irresponsible and politicians who sin over rhetoric (to which you referred) to demand a programme of action of this kind, precisely because it would be ill-conciled with the other requirement that we all want, i.e. to harmonize our foreign network with an evolving economic and political society and scenario. I would like to focus on the correlation between spending review and the closure programme before entering into the agenda, because, according to your report, there seems to have been a misunderstanding. The obligation to proceed with the closure of premises is not actually covered by Decree-Law No 95 of 6 July 2012 on the spending review, as does not appear from the report submitted by the Commission on the spending review. There is talk of rationalization with invariance of services, but not 23 closures. Those, Mr. Deputy Minister, are sanctioned by the discretion of the individual administration. It is worth remembering, in fact, that the then Foreign Minister Terzi of Sant'Agata suspended with an internal administrative measure every closure throughout 2012. Therefore, the need for administrative continuity, to which you referred in your reply, could also include a revision of the plan approved by the previous Government, since there were precedents in this regard. I don't feel like it. Beyond these clarifications, which still seem to me to be necessary, I believe that the port point of the shared and transversal agenda should be read as an appropriate and interesting solution which cannot and must not exclude subsequent in-depth discussions and serious commitments by the administration. Commitments on which, Mr Vice-Minister, you yourself have spoken and on which you have had the opportunity to highlight your obvious attention. We trust you, we will give you our respectful support. For this reason, on behalf of the Group, For Italy, I am voting in favour of this agenda. [[Applause from Senators Romano Lucio and Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u49	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group had taken part in the debate with Mr Pagano's speech, looking very favourably at the original text of the motion tabled by Senator Micheloni. On the other hand, our Group must also note that, even after the pause in its work on the search for a formulation shared by Vice-Minister Pistelli, Mr Micheloni, Mrs Mussini and other senators, it cannot be said that the original spirit of the motion has disappeared. Hence our vote in favour, for reasons already put forward with great balance by Mr Pagano and which are certainly the good reasons of colleagues who are elected abroad, but they are also overall reasons dictated by the international presence of our Republic. In the explanation of vote, I think we can pick up the intelligent idea introduced by Senator Maran's explanation of vote. In our international bureaucracy, to protect and guarantee the positions of our best when they are abroad and against certain vulgar generalizations of anti-burocracy (which, at times, the President of the Council himself subjugated, in general and at times broken down), has historically protected a disordered relationship between the so-called territorial and the so-called sent from Italy. The Italian use of the territorial labour dimension has been much less intense than that of other countries. I do not know how significant the Australian example represented by Senator Maran was, but this can be said to be a fact that has seen us then quite lacking and unproved in times of revision of public spending. Mr Vice-Minister, on this last point, let me remind you, however, how much public expenditure has been wasted abroad, not by the Italian Republic, but by the dialectal companies of our regionalism. Although the constitutional dictation states that the presence and international action are not the responsibility of regional representatives, both before and after the reform of Title V of Part Two of the Constitution, an Italian federalism was created. It's not about colleagues from the League: I remember that it was after the 1970 election campaign that the three-year-old Fanti, Miglio and Bassetti founded Padania, claiming that in foreign policy this should be the subject not to sacrifice to Italy. From this point of view, I believe that there is a great deal to be recovered: the Government must commit itself to this, in order to allow - precisely during the budgetary session - more to meet the legitimate expectations which my colleagues Micheloni, Mussini and others have put forward in this Chamber, including, for our Group, Senator Pagano: precisely in the spirit of his speech, our Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u52	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, when I ask for permission to hand over the full text of my speech, I would simply like to highlight a couple of the points that I consider most important. Before taking the decision to close a large number of diplomatic, consular and Italian cultural institutes, it is necessary to rethink the composition of the expenditure of all the structures, both central and foreign. In this regard, as was hoped for on the agenda of our colleague Mr De Pietro, who was unanimously approved in the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee, this objective can be achieved in practice by adopting the zero-based budget method, which replaces the practice of justifying expenditure appropriations on the basis of historical expenditure by a mechanism whereby expenditure centres are required to justify the request for a new budget following a new evaluation, taking into account the real standard costs that must be met efficiently. The starting point therefore becomes zero, with the implication that past methods, based precisely on historical expenditure, no longer have to be considered as the fixed point of departure. For this reason and in view of the rewording that has been presented, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour of the agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Micheloni, Bignami and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u53	The Presidency authorised its request to attach the full text of the statement to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u56	AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today's debate started with the motion tabled by Senator Micheloni and other senators who deal with the problem of consular reorganization, essentially focusing on the cuts caused by spending review. In fact, the long list of cuts to the consular network is reported: there are many, from the Consulate of Neuchâtel, to Koper, to Innsbruck. I too tabled a question a long time ago asking not to abolish an important consulate, at the request of the associations of the exiles, and I would like to take the example of that of Split. From our American communities the signal came loudly on the non-closure of Newark's, but we realize that the reality we are facing is much more complex. As has been widely illustrated both in the debate in the Commission and in the intervention of the Government, this is a real global rethinking of the consular network, a restructuring operation where savings are also foreseen, linked to the increase in the number of local contractors. There is no intention, with this measure that the Government proposes, to penalise our compatriots or our companies abroad. On the contrary, there is the will to offer the most punctual service possible where it becomes increasingly necessary. The logic of the measure that the Government proposes is clear: to pool skills and services in those countries, especially in Europe, where Italian citizens and companies still have protection, guarantees and ease of access to consular services more than sufficient. Not surprisingly, a large number of combinations and reductions take place in continental Europe: from Switzerland to Holland, from Spain to Iceland. It is thus possible, with the resources saved, to strengthen our presence by opening new offices in countries and new markets, where the real presence of Italians and Italian companies requires us to be present: in Vietnam, Iraq, Turkmenistan and China. The restructuring of diplomatic and consular networks is already in place in many countries of Europe. Our other European competitors (Germany, France and England) have long been on the path of a more concentrated presence in traditional countries and an expansion more in line with the new geopolitical and economic balances. We risk being late to them, and this is the last chance to keep up with what the new geopolitical situation requires. We need resources to affirm a new geopolitical vision, based on that diplomacy of growth that is now common to all our competitors on foreign markets. Synergies are also provided with EEAS (European External Action Service), the European Union Office supporting European countries' relations with the rest of the world. Also because this Europe must also have a function and a use on the part of our country. We cannot therefore afford any further delays, such as those which would have led to the approval of the motion tabled by Senator Micheloni and other senators. We take note of an opening by the presenters themselves with the agenda which welcomes some suggestions made by the representative of the Government, but we believe that we must move forward and that we must do so as quickly as possible. That is why our vote remains a vote in principle, which is a vote against that approach.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u59	TONINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the text of the agenda agreed between the presenters of the motions, the Senators Micheloni and Mussini, and the agenda of the Senator Puppato, with the Government. He will do so convinced that today's debate has been useful and important, within a path that is not only the sector that deals with our country's foreign policy, because it is an issue that involves all the activity of the Government. The issue of the revision of public expenditure is the central issue: it is the central challenge of the Government and Parliament in the coming months. We have - as you all know, ladies and gentlemen - medium-high public expenditure in Europe. Half of our gross domestic product is public expenditure: 800 billion euros out of about 1,600 billion of our gross domestic product, and these 800 billion (which, I repeat, are half of our gross domestic product) fail to guarantee our country neither economic efficiency nor social equality. Spending cannot be increased because we are on the roof, because the tax burden cannot be further increased. Then there is only one way out: the construction of a State 2.0, let's call it that, a new generation of our institutions and our political, administrative and government apparatuses. This is the challenge facing this Parliament and this Government, more generally this ruling class. If we succeed in this, Italy will walk again. If we fail, Italy will enter an absolutely dangerous spiral. Well, the Foreign Committees of the House and Senate and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have worked in recent years to start building a Farnesina 2.0, that is a piece of our administration, a small piece for quantitative dimensions, but absolutely important, and indeed we could say strategic for its role and its function, through the transition from the logic of linear cuts, which has been dominant in the past years, to a logic of effective revision of expenditure, which is then a way, understatement, to say a structural reform of the way we do and organize our foreign policy. It is part of this profound review, of this reform of our foreign policy and of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of the reform of development cooperation, which is under consideration in this branch of Parliament and which we hope will come to the House in the coming weeks. Certainly part of this reform is the profound reorganization of our system of presence of Italian language and culture abroad, which must be rethought in its modalities and objectives. It is certainly part of this review of expenditure and of this reform of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the radical restructuring - let me use this word - of our diplomatic-consular network, which is still too Eurocentric today and which must instead find its scope for action in a more global dimension. That is the point of the agenda that we are going to vote on shortly, which has two fundamental points. The first is that the revision of expenditure to be true, i.e. to be a reformist operation, needs a long breath. We must give ourselves the objective of defining what is Farnesina, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the network that we want to have from here to a few years, and start immediately to take consequent measures that are consistent with this objective. This is the government's commitment to the Senate right now. By approving the agenda, the Senate commits the Government in this direction, to present an organic and relaxed plan over the years to start immediately, which provides for a reorganization of the network less Eurocentric and more open to a global dimension; a reorganization of the staff, giving more space to the staff hired on site than that sent by the metropolitan headquarters; imagining, in particular, a reduction in the presence of diplomatic personnel in Europe, to be moved to other areas of the world, in favor of the maintenance of important and essential services. The other fundamental point of our agenda is the adjustment and compensation compared to some decisions that have been taken in recent months and that in part still belong to the traditional logic of linear cuts, while instead they must be traced back within a perspective of revision of own spending by valorizing new forms of presence of services on site, light and economic, that however allow from the administration to supply services qualitatively efficient to the Italian citizens resident abroad, albeit with a reduction of the commitments of expenditure. Well, I believe that the government is committed to giving immediate answers on this. We have an authoritative interlocutor in Deputy Minister Pistelli, whom I would like to thank for the great commitment he is putting on this decisive issue. He said before that sometimes politics, in the past years, has snubbed organizational issues, as if they were questions of "intendence" that will follow: instead today the reorganization of our apparatuses is a crucial and essential political issue. I would like to thank him for this great work he is doing and I would also like to thank my colleagues Micheloni and Puppato and all the other colleagues who have worked on the motion, and of course also Mr Mussini, who is not from our Group, but who has helped us in this very important and significant dialogue. I therefore believe that we can vote in favour of the G100 agenda, in order to carry out this important and so decisive work for our foreign policy and, more generally, for the reform of the state. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u60	I say that Senator Luciano Rossi has asked to sign the G100 agenda. Confirm, Senator Rossi?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u61	Yes, Mr President, I would ask you to subscribe to the G100 agenda and I do so firmly - on the other hand, my Group has already voted in favour of it - because it is such an important issue, which affects the credibility and image of Italy and the Italians in the world, which certainly deserves great attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u62	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G100 agenda. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G100 agenda presented by Senator Micheloni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, PI and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u63	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-250.ana.u64	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 29 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.54.
