ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, yesterday evening, just after the vote on the question for a preliminary ruling, I drew attention to the regularity of certain votes in the Commission on the draft law delegation of labour market reform and the President-in-Office, Senator Fedeli, read a communication from the Commission itself on the fact that the procedures observed had been regular and that the amendments on which the 5th Commission's opinion had been expressed contrary to Article 81 had been withdrawn. Mr President, on the other hand, I pointed out that it appeared to me, not only from the Report, but also from investigations carried out with the Members of the Commission, that all the amendments on which the 5th Commission had expressed the opposite view had actually disappeared, in the sense that they had not been voted on, declared to be dead or improvised. After the clarification of President Fedeli that everything was regular because the amendments were and had been withdrawn, I made further investigations and, at least as far as my Group is concerned, Senator Barozzino, who signed many of them, did not withdraw any of them. I therefore believe - and this was the subject of the request for referral back to the Commission - that it is necessary to return to the Commission for consideration of these amendments. In fact, this is a purely formal matter, but it is a matter of substance from a procedural point of view. In doing so, it would be possible to examine those amendments which, in our view, were unjustifiedly not voted on and absolutely not withdrawn. We therefore call once again for a check to be made on the regularity of the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u13	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, as Senator De Petris has already said, I would also like to point out that in the Commission I am working on the amendments on which the 5th In accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, the Commission had expressed its view that they had not been withdrawn from my Group. We would therefore like to see a new step in the Commission's work, in order to try to carry out all the work which has been virtually suspended in the most regular way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u14	The Presidency spoke at yesterday's afternoon sitting on the basis of President Sacconi's speech, thus pointing out that the Commission's report was inaccurate. However, the findings expressed at this stage will be further examined for the necessary verifications. [[Applause from Senator Cioffi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u15	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for draft law No 1613: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law 1 August 2014, n. 109, extending the international missions of the Armed Forces and police, initiatives for development cooperation and support to the reconstruction processes and participation in the initiatives of international organizations for the consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes, as well as provisions for the renewal of the Committees of Italians abroad", already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. At its meeting on 23 September the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I'm asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Cociancich, if you're going to intervene. Mr Cocianch, draftsman of the opinion. Thank you, President. I am referring to the report that has already been carried out in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u18	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, distinguished colleagues, we are yet another reproposing of a government decree-law to refinance military missions abroad. Italians don't even know how many these missions are: from the data available to us, there are 33 activities in 25 areas: Albania, Kosovo, Bosnia, Macedonia, Georgia, Cyprus, Lebanon, Morocco, India, Pakistan, Egypt, Israel, Mali, Libya, Afghanistan, Somalia, Darfur, South Sudan. With these continuous extensions there is not even a clear awareness of how much money these missions have cost us and cost us. Correct me if I'm wrong, but to keep going until December it takes 400 million; 5 billion, so far, have only been spent on Afghanistan in the years in which the mission lasted. But what matters most is how many human lives have been sacrificed: in ten years, only in Iraq and Afghanistan, 84 young people died to export democracy. To them, however, must be added the dead in Italy, because that money fails to invest in Italy. People die because they have no access to credit; people die because of lack of medical prevention; people die because our law enforcement forces have no means to ensure better security. Some people die of hardship, too. Meanwhile, 333,000 euros are spent on the translation into the local language of the maintenance manual of a military vehicle given to the Republic of Djibouti. This was a surprise to the Commission. We will inform each other, colleagues said, but we voted in favour. That is why we wanted to bring the debate to the House and invest each and every one of us in the responsibility to know and the responsibility to decide. Peace also has a cost, but it cannot be used as an excuse, like a ram, to fight other people's wars, wars to change the geopolitical chessboard, for the economic and strategic interests of some nation or multinational, because there are the dead. It's not a game on a chessboard. Then, the first objection to the unconstitutionality of this decree arises from merit. Article 11 of the Constitution reads: "Italy repudiates war", it repudiates it also as a mere means of resolving international disputes. Our Constitution makes it clear that democracy is not exported by military means. I believe that many of the people present here share the affirmation of this principle and that Article 11 should not leave any room for interpretation. It is to them and to their history that I appeal. [[Brusio.]] You guys are a little distracted. I'm sorry. Maybe others believe that war can be used in various ways, in different situations, to decline the constitutional principle and that in some cases we cannot talk about war, that we need to know how to distinguish and evaluate. I also appeal to them: let us evaluate, discuss, but let us discuss here, in the appropriate time, not compressed in the sixty days of conversion of a decree-law, while other government matters keep us engaged in a busy calendar. It is not acceptable that the fate of some areas of the world - but also of Italy, given the concerns about Middle Eastern terrorism, resulting from sudden operations abroad - and the fate of many young people are decided with a distracted extension. If it is to be discussed and evaluated, it must be done for every single mission, not in a Macedonian decree, which collects them and mechanically extends them. For each of these, we need to assess where we are. Even those who think of exporting democracy expect a result from the missions. Well, what is this result? How much democracy have we exported? Do we measure it in tons, in hectares? When did the day come to bring our young people home? On these things we must fully evaluate every single situation, not collect them in a heterogeneous decree. Because this decree is heterogeneous and I am not just referring to missions. I read the title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 1 August 2014, no. 109. August 1st: Do you remember what we were doing on August 1st, instead of taking care of this? We were trying to please President Renzi and turn the Constitution upside down on the Senate and Title V; there was no room to talk about the emerging situations that were going on all over the world. Well: Decree-Law No 109 of 1 August 2014 extending the international missions of the Armed Forces and Police, development cooperation initiatives and support for reconstruction processes and participation in international organisations' initiatives for the consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes, as well as provisions for the renewal of Italian Committees abroad. With all due respect for the Committees of Italians abroad, we cannot really make a fruit salad: we must give Parliament the opportunity to intervene on every single subject fully. The Constitutional Court states this: heterogeneity cannot be compatible with the urgency criterion. Here emerge with arrogance of the objections of method, as well as of merit, referring precisely to the instrument of the decree-law. In this case, we are not talking about unforeseen situations, about emerging situations such as a natural or financial disaster, which require very tight regulatory response times: we are faced with missions and situations that have lasted for decades. We are therefore in the presence of a heavy violation of Parliament's prerogatives, of an abuse by the Government and, allow me to make a political notation, also of the demonstration of the paucity, of the extemporaneousness, of the continuous chase to emergencies. This is not the government of doing: it is the government of chasing, it is a government that chases its own measures, that does not have the time then to elaborate the implementing decrees because it has simply put too much meat on the grill and instead of cooking the roast, it is making only smoke. In conclusion, I believe that on the subject of missions abroad Parliament must take a step forward and that the Government should allow it, allowing the Commissions to work and go to regulate this matter once and for all, through the correct legislative profile and path. Judging by your faces, I don't think you care much, but it matters to the Italians. Now you have to vote and put your face on it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u21	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the conversion of Decree-Law No 109 of 1 August 2014 presents many critical aspects, not only from the point of view of merit (which we will examine in detail in the course of the debate) but also in terms of constitutionality. Let us move forward with these decree-laws extending missions abroad in a regular way, repeating them every six months, with a methodology that has been going on for years now. We are therefore faced with an abuse of the use of the decree-law. In some cases, as in some cases also in this case, there has been almost an intervention in terms of sanatorium with regard to the authorisation of expenditure. With this decree, there is a violation of the constitutional requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution, which is regularly disregarded and, with regard to the substance, Article 11 of the Constitution (many of these missions are very problematic from this point of view); but above all, because of the heterogeneity of the content of this provision, the principle of homogeneity required for the decree-law is not respected. This measure extends the continuation of absolutely different missions, not only because of the situation in the field, but also because of the type of mission itself. We are faced with the extension of missions to Afghanistan together with interventions that have a type clearly linked to cooperation, so much so that the decree itself in the first part is organized on continents. But within Europe, Asia and Africa there are absolutely different types and objectives of intervention. This, Mr President, prevents Parliament from being able to articulate its positions, from being able to intervene by distinguishing situations by giving different contributions and votes. In this decree it helps to add heterogeneity to the insertion of provisions for the renewal of the Committees of Italians abroad, which have nothing to do with the extension of the missions. I do not believe that the Committees of Italians abroad, beyond the merit of the provisions, can be even remotely compared to the commitment to missions. In this case the heterogeneity is particularly serious because in the last month, precisely these days, we are faced with an incandescent international situation, as also shows what happened yesterday and on which this House briefly focused: the heinous murder of a French citizen. The horror that this murder has caused in all of us shows how difficult and complex the situation that our country, and not only, faces. All this deserves much more detailed reflection on the merits of the individual missions, because some of them are closely linked to what is happening. Therefore, from the point of view of the homogeneity of the matter requested by the Constitutional Court for decrees-laws that to our examination does not meet it, neither does it comply with the mandatory requirements imposed by our Constitution and brought every time to the attention of the Government and Parliament. The other question, Mr President, is that these are decrees which, as I said at the beginning, are repeated regularly and in the same way. We are now in the thirteenth if not in the fourteenth year of recurrence - always in the same way - of the same decree; which, of course, means that the prerequisites of necessity and urgency are not there, since there are interventions in progress, planned, concerning missions not modified, but repeated every six months through the instrument of the decree. Frankly, then, whenever this issue is discussed in the Chamber or in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, by the current Government as well as those which have followed in recent years, there is a promise, evidently in vain, of a new way of acting in terms of planning, abandoning the use of the decree of urgency. Above all, Mr President, what we find absolutely scandalous is that no senator or Member is allowed to enter into the substance and articulate his own positions, thereby contributing to the individual missions. It is absolutely impossible for Parliament to act and then decide - not only to debate, but to decide - in a more precise and, above all, more adherent way to what are the different realities of the missions and the different types of interventions. That is why, Mr President, we believe that there are no constitutional requirements and therefore we shall vote no to the opinion expressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u22	I put to the vote the favourable opinion expressed by the first permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, regarding the existence of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No. 109. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u23	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1613 approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Lucherini and Vattuone, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Lucherini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure I am about to present, adopted at first reading in the House of Members, has long been the main legislative instrument by which to define the foreign policy guidelines of our country. A century after the First World War, the world is today crossed by a series of violent conflicts that, while on the one hand are questioning state boundaries and geopolitical balances that arose after the two world wars, on the other generate destruction and humanitarian disasters of immense proportions and gravity, which Pope Francis himself recently described with great effectiveness, stating that today we are in a world at war; we are in the third world war, but we are in pieces and chapters. These words can only call us, as the founder country currently leading the European Union, to a deeper contribution to offer effective solutions of peace and stability. The dramatic nature of the many international crises - from Libya to Ukraine, passing through those which only apparently do not directly affect Europe and which are mainly concentrated in the Middle East quadrant, as well as in sub-Saharan Africa - confirm the need for a constructive and coordinated confrontation on major and serious international issues for Parliament and the Government, as well as at European level. As rapporteur of the Commission for Foreign Affairs for this measure extending international missions, I can only reiterate the importance these regulatory instruments have had and continue to have in the definition, not only of foreign and security policy lines, but also in the affirmation of an Italian model which, in recent years, has been strengthened in the framework of multilateral international missions as well as in the work of international cooperation on development and within the peace and stabilisation processes in crisis areas. This model should be consolidated - and we often repeat it here - with the adoption of a general framework law governing the issues of Italy's employment and commitment arising from membership of the European Union and the major international and regional organisations. This requirement has been pointed out several times in the past here in the Senate as well as in the House. The adoption of a framework law on this issue represents a port of extraordinary legal importance, as well as strengthening the credibility and reputation of Italy in international relations. In this direction the recommendation of the Committee on the Law of the House, following the examination in the consultative session of the measure under consideration, which, recalling as often as the Commission itself and the Commissions of merit of our Parliament, during the examination of the decrees-laws for the extension of international missions, has reiterated the need for a uniform discipline that regulates the legal and economic profiles of the missions in a stable manner. We must try to ensure that the sector framework legislation is finally adopted before the launch of a new six-monthly decree-law to finance international missions. Coming to the main areas of crisis that see the deployment of our contingents, and that raise great security concerns, today we are faced with a plurality of crisis outbreaks that threaten the state architecture of many countries: I am thinking of the Middle East Region, Libya but also Ukraine. With regard to the Middle East, the advance in Syria and Iraq of the Islamic State, with its trail of indescribable violence and massacres perpetrated against unarmed populations (children, women, the elderly) with mass rapes, beheadings and massacres, imposes a great effort on all to face this challenge. The last assassination was yesterday's beheading of the French guide who had the sole fault of staying in Algeria, in the mountains of the Atlas, if I am not mistaken, to carry out his activity as a hiker. It is clear that the threat of ISIS is greater and more dangerous than that represented by Al Qaeda, with the objective that ISIS has to give life, as it is doing - and, unfortunately, for many months this has happened also in the absence of attention of the West - of a caliphate, of a state between Syria and Iraq that can reach the Mediterranean and that is a very serious threat not only for those populations but also for the West, therefore for us and for Europe as a whole. The commitment that we will have to carry out cannot but go in the direction of assisting and strengthening the capacity of the new Executive in Iraq to create the conditions for an inclusive dialogue of all the components of the complex Iraqi society, in order to involve them in a single state project. Only if we succeed in affirming the balance and broad representativeness of all the components of Iraqi society will the military commitment and the strengthening of the defence capabilities of the main regional actors involved, starting from the Kurds to understand the monarchies of the Gulf, Egypt and Turkey. The involvement of the Muslim countries of the region, together with those Western countries that have voluntarily decided to commit themselves to halting the advance of ISIS, is a very positive fact, because it shows that there is no confrontation between Islam and the West, as President Obama said yesterday with great force and clarity to the UN, but that, on the contrary, ISIS represents a very serious threat also to the Muslim people and their legitimate aspirations. It would, however, be appropriate to frame this involvement in an international context, within the framework of the United Nations, in order to give full legality to intervention and avoid easy exploitation of calls for clashes of civilizations or wars of religion. Finally, on ISIS, I would like to conclude with a reflection. This organization, like before it other fundamentalist organizations and others that in the future may be born, is the result of a number of factors: frustration, exclusion, underdevelopment, alienation, anger and harassment endured by entire peoples. It is these factors that constitute the soil from which the fanaticisms, variously called, are born, and it will be on that soil that we will be called to measure ourselves. The long-term challenge will focus on building conditions and conditions to facilitate political dialogue and listening, tolerance and social inclusion, as well as the access of all peoples to human, civil and political rights and fundamental freedoms. As far as Syria is concerned, in that ancient Middle East country the most serious humanitarian crisis of our era is underway, destined to remain and weigh like a boulder on the conscience of the entire international community. According to studies by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the number of Syrian refugees who have had to leave their country and who are regularly registered with the host states has exceeded 3 million; while more than 6 million internally displaced persons, of whom about half are children, are children. Only a few days ago, thanks to the opening by the Turkish Government of its border with Syria (which was only opened for a few hours) about 130,000 Kurdish-Syrian refugees who were gathered at the border, fleeing from the brutal offensive of the Islamic State and threatened with death in an enclave that was created near the border. Syrian tragicity is currently linked to two-way with past errors and inertias and with the rise of ISIS which, in the Syrian civil war, plays a leading role, erecting itself as a bulwark of resistance and opposition to the Assad regime. The Syrian crisis is a crisis of extraordinary complexity, which has extended the arc of instability to countries such as Lebanon, Jordan and other countries in that area. It is with Syria in mind that the House has been approved an amendment to article 8, paragraph 1, which aims to extend development cooperation initiatives aimed at improving the living conditions of the population and refugees, as well as in support of the civil reconstruction of countries such as Jordan and Lebanon. With regard to Lebanon, it represents the theater of instability which sees the second largest deployment of Italian soldiers. In Lebanon the climate of strong uncertainty, resulting from the Syrian conflict and the crisis in the Gaza Strip, is reflected on the Lebanese political balance, sharpening a growing political and confessional tension made more marked by the vacuum left by the work of influence of Damascus. This makes even more important the Italian action of UNIFIL, whose command was reconfirmed to Italy by the Secretary General of the United Nations last July. This is proof of the seriousness and competence of our country, which still makes a very significant contribution today, which is accompanied by the support of the International Support Group for Lebanon (International group for Lebanon), launched last September at the request of the United Nations to assist Lebanon in the relief work for refugees and, through training and cooperation programmes, support the growth of the Lebanese armed forces. With regard to Afghanistan, I would like to focus on the latest political and security developments in the Afghan scenario, which - the reminder - sees the main use of Italian military, which, while decreasing by almost a thousand units, still consists of 1,500 men. Also in the allocation of economic resources, this decree has provided a significant reduction, equal to more than 50 million euros. The Italian military contingent, deployed mostly in Herat, in the west of the country, and for the remaining part in Kabul, carries out activities that develop in the fields of security, reconstruction and governance. As evidence of the remarkable role of the Italian contingent in the area of its own responsibility, it should be noted that during the complex electoral phase there was an unexpected percentage of voters, 58 percent of those entitled to vote. An even more extraordinary result if you think that as many as 44 percent were the percentage of women who went to the vote. The support that Italy, as well as the entire international community, is called upon to give to the new Afghan President and his Government concerns the delicate phase of transition, consisting in the progressive transfer of security responsibilities to the Afghan authorities, with the assumption by 2014 of full responsibility by the Afghan authorities. Moving now the attention towards the southern shore of the Mediterranean Sea, the country that arouses the greatest concerns for Italy is Libya. Concerns do not apply only to important energy and economic references, because the presence of Italians still residing in Libya is very substantial, as is the presence of diplomatic staff at the Italian embassy, which is one of the few diplomatic offices of the European Union still open. Three years have passed since the fall of the Gaddafi regime, but from the political and institutional point of view the desired processes have not been achieved. The Libyan conflict no longer represents that kind of low-intensity, episodic and localized conflict. The elections of 25 June have, in concrete terms, led to a sharp break in the already torn political fabric of the country. This fracture has resulted in a military clash that sees, on the one hand, the radical and revolutionary Islamist forces and, on the other, the moderate component. In the ongoing conflict there is the influence of some regional powers, supporting either side, which emerged clearly as a result of the air interventions of the United Arab Emirates logistically supported by Egypt, an influence that risks compromising beyond measure the Libyan political-institutional process. For these reasons, it is more urgent than ever to continue working, both at European level and within the United Nations, to find diplomatic solutions to support the start of an inclusive dialogue and national reconciliation process involving all the parties now in conflict. There are also open conflicts in sub-Saharan Africa and other areas in respect of which this decree provides for interventions, for example the Balkan area and Ukraine, which I do not want to examine, referring to the full text of the written report that I give to the Presidency so that it is annexed to the report of the sitting. As far as the provisions relating to Chapter I are concerned, Mr Vattuone will report on them. In accordance with the provisions concerning the profiles of the Foreign Commission, Chapter II of Articles 8 and 9 sets out rules on development cooperation initiatives for which expenditure for a total of EUR 34.8 million is authorised, supplementing the appropriations provided for in the development cooperation legislation. This appropriation is intended to cover actions to improve the living conditions of the population and refugees, as well as support for civil reconstruction in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Mali, Myanmar, Pakistan, Central African Republic, Syria, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan and Yemen, and in relation to assistance to refugees in neighbouring countries. In article 8, paragraph 1, an amendment has been introduced to the Chamber that aims to promote interventions provided for by the national action plan "Women, peace and security," prepared by the Interministerial Committee for Human Rights operating at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. The Commissions and then the Chamber of the Chamber also approved further amendments to paragraph 1 of Article 8, aimed at broadening the scope of the objectives of the interventions, including the development of local self-government capacities, the protection of food safety and the right to health, the rehabilitation of the injured, as well as health measures to combat the Ebola epidemic in countries most affected by the virus. A further amendment introduced to the Chamber provides for the online publication of detailed information on individual cooperation projects and the results obtained. The text also confirms the Italian commitment to the implementation in the second half of 2014 of integrated humanitarian mine clearance programmes (Article 8, paragraph 2) for an expenditure of one million euros. In this connection, I would like to point out that the Foreign and Defence Commissions have adopted an agenda to increase the budget of the humanitarian mine clearance fund in view of the increased operational nature of the growing number of conflicts. On the Italian side of the participation in multilateral funds and initiatives, as referred to in Article 9, include, among others, interventions to support the stabilisation processes in countries in situations of conflict or post-conflict for an expenditure of approximately €620,000 (mainly in Syria and Libya), those for initiatives to support peace processes and to strengthen security in sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America for €1.3 million, the contribution to the trust funds of the United Nations and NATO and to the UN College of Turin, the allocation of approximately 2.9 million for the financing of initiatives under the Common Foreign and Security Policy - Common Security and Defence Policy (CFSP-PSDC), as well as the cooperation projects of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and for the participation in the European Central Initiative Trust Fund (INCE). I conclude with a reference to Article 10 of the measure, concerning provisions for the renewal of the Committees of Italians abroad, which has been introduced in the measure under consideration and on which there has been a very critical statement by the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad of the Senate, which has also presented an agenda in the Commission, accepted by the Government as a recommendation, with the invitation to assess whether there are the conditions for changing the provisions of the House in the sense desired by the agenda accepted as a recommendation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to attach the full text of the report to the Minutes of today's sitting. I call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u25	Mr President, Mr Senators, the decree-law put to the vote is affected by the limited time taken to examine the measure due to the imminent expiry. I would therefore like to thank the offices and all the Members of the Commission for the sense of responsibility which, even in a detailed debate on different positions, has allowed us to arrive at the debate in this House in a short time. This is the third time in this XVII legislature that Parliament is about to approve the extension of the international missions of the Armed Forces and of cooperation and stabilisation interventions. I think I can say that this extension takes place in a historical phase that makes immediate perception of how it is necessary to radically modify our country's foreign, defence and security policy. The new multipolar structure that characterizes the international scenario seems to clearly redesign the balance between the nations and the entire system of international relations not in the direction of a cooperative and orderly system, but towards a confrontation markedly antagonistic and devoid of traditional references. I think it is quite clear that the different and serious instability that is taking place in the international scene can no longer be explained and interpreted using the usual concept of crisis. 2014 was really an annus horribilis from the point of view of international security and stability, certainly among the worst since the second post-war period in which three continents, Europe, Asia and Africa, are crossed by very serious systemic crises and with the entry into stage of an expression of terrorism of the jihadist matrix - and I refer of course to the so-called Islamic army - particularly dangerous in that it appears to propose itself as an element able to catalyze and coagulate the different extremisms of matrix, precisely, jihadist. At this point we have to ask ourselves the question of how, in this scenario, a country like ours, which has always been on the side of the protection of international law and has a very long-term commitment to human rights for the multilateral management of crises and for the strengthening of multilateral organisations, such as the United Nations, the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance. The answer, in our opinion, is to be able to outline and implement some essential political guidelines: the first is to contribute to a phase of reconstruction of international relations, taking advantage of the new responsibilities and new weight we have assumed within the European Union and contributing, as has already happened at the recent Newport Summit, to a phase of relaunching and remodulating NATO's activity. This guideline is based on a premise: it is believed that the nations that have so far contributed to international stability and security, today, within the multilateral organisations of which they belong, each with its specific vocation, are called to play an increasing role, in order to compensate at least in part for the weaknesses of a system that is too fragmented in alliances and initiatives. In an international context marked by the breaking of the old geopolitical balances inherited from the two world wars, we are therefore called to reaffirm some of the key principles of our foreign and security policy: participation in the processes of peace and democratic stabilisation and the confirmation of the country's international role also in the framework of major multilateral operations, bringing our specific, namely, attention to the Mediterranean area. This capacity for initiative needs, let us say, some precondictions: the first is that I believe it is to assume as a central a new policy of defence and security. The Defense has started a path of rationalization and redevelopment of military spending, path outlined by law n. 244 of 2012 that represents a real system reform. In addition, a new model of defence is being updated through the White Paper. We are faced with the need for a broad political capacity which takes account of, of course, also of financial compatibility, but I think that the debate cannot be focused solely on how and to what extent to participate in certain weapons programmes. There is another aspect of the problem: our active participation in multinational initiatives, in the collective effort of the international community for peace and stability, cannot be taken for granted. We therefore need to modernise our military instrument. And we must therefore be able to support our efforts to contribute to international stability, with a role consistent with the expectations of a modern country that is fully involved in the European security policy and the Atlantic Alliance. The measure before the House, already approved with amendments by the Chamber of Deputies, consists of 12 articles divided into three Heads. The aspects of the competence of the Defense concern, in particular, Chapter I of the decree-law, which arises in the wake drawn from the decree relating to the first half of the year, sharing the authorizations of expenditure on the basis of a geographical criterion. The first three articles are dedicated, respectively, to missions in Europe, Asia and Africa, for a total number of 4207 personnel of the Armed Forces employed (compared to 4,725 of the previous measure), with simultaneous reduction of the total costs. To make a comparative analysis with previous years we have a reduction of 23.6 percent on 2012 and 10.7 percent on 2013 in absolute terms. As for the aspects of Defense, and only of Defense, in comparison with 2013 we have a reduction of 13 percent, so less 135 million compared to what we spent in 2013, before all the general expenses. By analysing Chapter I, Article 1 provides for authorisation of expenditure relating to international missions taking place in Europe. I quote one, the most important (about 36 million) for the extension of the participation of military personnel in missions in the Balkans with a total employment of 555 personnel. I would like to refer to the full text of the report, which I would like to add to today's report, with regard to the other missions, and I would like to point out that Article 2 concerning those in progress in Asia provides for EUR 183,635 million for missions to Afghanistan ISAF and EUPOL, for a total of 1,500 units, compared with the 2,250 provided for in the previous decree-law. Here again, we have a 24 percent reduction compared to 2013 and 47 percent reduction compared to 2011, which was the biggest commitment. In this regard, the emphasis of the Government's report on the delicate transition phase in Afghanistan, which provides for the gradual release of responsibilities to the Afghan authorities by the year 2014. I also quote EUR 76,223 million for the participation of the Italian military contingent in the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon. It should also be noted that the Chamber of Deputies has provided, with a special amendment, for the Italian participation in further military missions in Afghanistan to be evaluated by the Government in the presence of a possible and formal request of the local Executive and in agreement with the international organizations involved. Of this must be given prior notice to the Chambers, which adopt the subsequent deliberations. As regards the commitment in Africa, in Article 3, I quote the 23,958 million for participation in military operations off the coast of Somalia, the Atalanta missions of the European Union and NATO Ocean Shield, to combat piracy, with 606 units on average committed, compared with the 622 previous ones. I also mention the 17.836 million for the European Union's missions to Somalia, as well as further EU initiatives in the Horn of Africa, and for the operation of the national military base of the Republic of Djibouti (and this is new compared to the previous decree-law). Another novelty is the approximately 2,987 million for the participation of military personnel in the European Union mission in the Central African Republic: in this case, the planned units are 51. With reference to this article, some important changes made to the Chamber of Deputies during the first reading should be noted. In particular, in paragraph 4, it is specified that, after 31 December 2014, the Italian participation in the anti-piracy operations will be evaluated in relation to the developments of the events affecting the two Marine rifles held in India. Paragraph 7-a is introduced, according to which the Government is required to report to the Chambers on the possible total or partial suspension of operations in Libya. 150,000 euros of expenditure for Italian participation in the military group of international observers of the cessation of hostilities in Mozambique are authorised. As regards the other provisions of interest of the Defense, Article 4 appears to be an important novelty the financing of approximately 1,942 million for the use of a naval unit of the Navy in the framework of the operation of marine escort intended to assure conditions of safety to the international activity of transport and neutralization of chemical weapons. Other changes made to the Chamber of Deputies during the first reading are also to be noted: it is expected that the Ministers of Defence and Foreign Affairs, in the context of communications to the Chambers, will also inform Parliament of the way in which the sum allocated for the conclusion of insurance and transport contracts and for the implementation of infrastructure, which, with regard to the financial commitment of 2014, amounts to more than 120 million. In addition, expenditure of approximately 1,965 million for the transport of humanitarian aid to the Iraqi civilian population, carried out in August, is authorised for the year 2014, as well as for the transport of weapons equipment sold free of charge to the Republic of Iraq. Further provisions relating to Articles 5 to 7 of the Decree-Law contain the usual provisions on staff, criminal matters and accounting, with some amendments that I leave attached to the report. A further additional paragraph regulates the financial cover of the amendments mentioned above. In a nutshell, referring to the full text of the report for details of the missions to the acts, the strategic installation of the measure, with some modifications, confirms the general framework of the missions referred to in the previous decree-law, committing 4,207 military with 30 activities in 24 countries involving national interests, naturally legitimized by the international community as promoted or conducted under mandate of the UN, the European Union or NATO. Our participation in international operations cannot fail to recall once again the issue of the two rifles of Marina Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre. A constant action by the Government must be strongly supported and supported by the actors working in the international context in which we are engaged, in order to conclude in definitive terms a truly paradoxical affair in its premises and even more absurd in its iter. Ladies and gentlemen, Italy continues to be generously engaged in operations related to the restoration of peace, security and development of oppressed peoples. The contribution that our military provide in the various theatres upset by wars and revolutions is internationally appreciated, not only from the military point of view, but also in terms of building relations between various interlocutors present on the territory and international cooperations, whose aim is to promote peace and help the social and civil development of the peoples. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u26	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the full text of the report to the Minutes of today's sitting. I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity for me to speak on this important decree-law on the subject that I have to deal with. I believe that what is happening should make Parliament reflect on the way it works. When a senator submits an amendment to any measure, he is X-rayed to see if the amendment is appropriate, if it corresponds to the subject, and we will certainly see some good ones during the examination of the next draft stability law. If we do - rightly - X-raying of parliamentary initiatives, I believe that a correct reading of the government's action must also be made. It is not clear why the renewal of the Committees of Italians abroad has also been included in this important decree-law on the renewal of missions abroad. As representatives of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, we have tabled an agenda for a sense of responsibility, although common sense would have liked us to table an amendment to delete this rule. Instead, I now announce that the signatories to the agenda will vote on this decree-law, because beyond our issue there is a responsibility towards our military personnel engaged in foreign missions that is superior. Therefore, our vote on this measure is not under discussion. Colleagues, the renewal of the Committee of Italians abroad is five years late. So, it's hard to imagine that it's become urgent in the last 60 days. All the elected senators of the Foreign College have regularly reminded governments (to this and to the previous Government) of the need to put a hand on the renewal of this Committee. Even in the House of this branch of Parliament in the last parliamentary term a reform text of the Committees and the CGE was adopted, which then, for the sake of the interests not of the Italian communities abroad, was sunk down in the House of Deputies. Therefore, urgency does not exist in this case. The measure we are considering today, however, contains something positive, and this is the thing that most disturbs us representatives of the Italian communities abroad. In fact, Article 10 provides for the establishment of the electoral list, which we requested even before the first electoral round took place, because it is an instrument that allows us to get out of the ambiguity of the management of voting abroad. Several bills contain the proposal to create a list of voters. Every time it has been proposed, we have always highlighted the difficulty of making a quality list, stressing the need for adequate time and we have always said that the time needed goes from one to two years. Instead, we have to make a list of voters in less than two months, without even guaranteeing information to all voters. With this decree we decide, in fact, to change the modalities, without guaranteeing citizens who have the right to renew the Comites, i.e. Committees elected by universal suffrage on the basis of a law of the Italian State, to be informed. That's what we're doing. We must therefore come out of this road without exit, from this cul-de-sac in which he put the decision of the government. The agenda of which I am the first signatory - which the Government accepted as a recommendation yesterday 'beneficently' - dear Undersecretary cannot simply be accepted as a recommendation. In fact, I believe that the Government must have an awareness of the problem it has created, taking into account the ways out that we present here. In particular, the way out of this agenda is feasible: it does not require additional funding. The Government has declared that the funds present in the 2014 budget are sufficient to make the elections, and, if they are sufficient in 2014, they will be sufficient also in 2015. We call for the immediate establishment of the electoral list, ensuring adequate information for all citizens with rights, providing for a minimum time of at least six months - because it is unthinkable to do so in less than two months - and organizing immediately after the elections. It is feasible with the funds available. From here to the end of the year, given the situation we are going through, I believe that the Government will bring us a decree a week, so it is not difficult to insert a new date for the renewal of the Comites. Nor is it justified the answer given by the Government, for which decrees to announce elections were already adopted by some consulates, which, if legally correct, is not very elegant, because - if all goes well - we will vote on this decree this morning. I therefore think that the consulates and the administration could have waited, for a gesture of elegance even if, I repeat, what they did is legally correct. There is therefore no reason not to get out of this extremely sensitive situation because of the consequences it has and which go beyond the Comites, because this list is not a definitive thing, but it is the basis of the list for the possible future political vote. Who is able today to put voters on this list in less than two months? The institutions and offices of patronage, which are in possession of the necessary documents to make this registration. We will see mass inscriptions made by structures that know who is on the electorate list, which has nothing to do with a free choice of the citizen and the voter to join and enter this list. So, even if yesterday - I repeat - the Undersecretary Della Vedova declared himself available to accept the agenda as a recommendation, here we are not in kindergarten, we are not playing with the content and the candy. We raise a serious problem here: we condemn the way in which the Government has used it, but we propose viable ways out. If we go on this road - and I conclude - we respond to a very precise plan, that of destroying the overall representation of Italian communities abroad. With these modes, in fact, we will not put in condition more than three... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u28	You should finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u29	MICHELONI (PD). One minute, ma'am. I was saying, we will not be able to vote more than 3-5 percent of those entitled. It means that in January, if we vote on 19 December under these conditions, the amendments that we rejected here when we discussed the reform of the Constitution on the Senate, will certainly be re-tabled to the House to suppress the Foreign College, and this time they will have arguments that the Government is giving them, because these bodies disturb the functioning of the administration rather than of politics. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Pagano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u30	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the world order we inherited from the post-war period will be unrecognizable in a few years' time, but Italy cannot be disinterested in international security: there is no Swiss line for us. I explain and return to some historical constants - I quote only two - which are destined to weigh in any international context and which affect the orientations of Italian foreign policy. The first, which is perhaps the most radical historical constant, is a condition of vulnerability and insecurity, towards the outside, because of the weak settling and the continuous fluidity of the two sides of the Italian foreign policy (the Balkan peninsula and the southern shore of the Mediterranean), and towards the inside, where the vulnerability is the product of the re-emergence of political and institutional weaknesses and a stateliness often devoid of force. In other words, therefore, the difficult geostrategic position of the Mediterranean and the weak national identity have strongly influenced the credibility of our foreign policy. It's an ancient historical story. In many ways, what was the response that continues to be a reaction to these constants? It is the anchoring to bilateral alliances or alliance systems with stronger actors, able to fill the international security deficit (and sometimes also within the country) and to ensure, at the same time, the co-opting of our country at the table of the main powers. Therefore, this condition leaves no room for credible alternatives, because precisely thanks to the policy of alliances Italy has been able to achieve objectives that could never have achieved alone: even the completion of our national unity should be remembered. On the cost side, this anchoring to stronger allies has resulted in commitments often disproportionate and burdensome to the political, economic and military resources of the country. As I said, however, there are no credible alternatives and Italy has seen in its participation in the joint missions the price of accession to advantageous alliances. Of course, today, against the backdrop of these constants the world is changing vorticamente and our country, therefore, suffers from other political processes: the further weakening of the anchor to the multilateral option and the cohesion crisis, perhaps even more serious, that continues to weigh on what has been the architrave of the multilateral option of Italy, which is the European Union. In this context, a reflection on international missions has long been due. It is clear that we must reason, also because the reasons that had prompted several Italian actors to support participation in the missions (starting with the possibility at the political-diplomatic level to acquire a stronger role in Europe, at the geostrategic level to ensure the presence of Italy in the circle of the actors that matter, at the military level to obtain greater support to the political forces from the public and at the economic level to guarantee the international trade routes and the flow of raw materials and energy resources) are still valid today, but should, in some cases, be emphasized and rethought. In this regard, I would like to refer to the tragic story of our maròs in India, to which the question should be asked openly: what were two Italian maròs doing in India? The answer is simple: they were escorting an oil tanker and they were doing it because the security of the energy supply routes is no longer guaranteed by the Americans, to understand us, and we are called to do our part. Every time we go home and turn on the light, we should Remember that. It should also be said, however, that all the huge resources we have invested to participate in the international effort to stabilize the crisis areas, the sacrifice of thousands of men who participated in it, with the loss of dozens of soldiers, have produced important results, have created security conditions in some places in the world that today can, albeit with difficulty, aim to develop their economies (i.e. the Balkans), in other cases have prevented the level of insecurity from increasing further, and are building the conditions to transfer responsibility for security to the local forces. The missions have also helped to prevent the continuation of a marginalization of our country and that the image of Italy worsens in recent years, also because of the political crisis that has invested it for twenty years. The missions also made it possible to improve the military instrument and its operational part. There are therefore many positive results, but the reflection is due because no foreign policy can continue to be based on the misuse of international missions as the only instrument to defend the rank of Italy in the world and the international missions cannot become the surrogate of what is not there but should exist, that is, a clear and selective vision of our priorities in the world and of the various instruments to defend it, issue that is on the agenda, so much so that a very recent publication of the International Affairs Institute (IAI) is titled "Choose to count." To count today it is not enough to participate, we must choose which are our main interests, also because the West as a whole, now more than ten years after 11 September, is living a phase of partial retreat because there are, even in the United States, economic constraints more important than before and because the results of democratic interventionism have so far been disappointing. The problem, however, is that all this is not exchanged, in Italy, with the illusion that we can finally be disinterested in international security. More than other countries, Italy remains vulnerable and exposed on a geopolitical level; more than other countries, Italy cannot afford a line to the Swiss. Not only that, but let us be honest: the reduction of the American presence in Europe and in the world will force us to do more for stability at our borders. Italy cannot afford a domestic retreat, it must find a new balance between internal constraints and external security. Italy, like none of the other European countries, will only be able to rely on national choices. For this reason too, because security around us will be European or not, Italy must remain a credible partner - also for this purpose the international missions - which can reduce the old burdens but which cannot escape the commitments that are emerging, economic and even military. That Italy can lock itself in is the furthest away from the reality of the 21st century. Article 11 of our Constitution should also be mentioned, which is mentioned - who knows why - only in its first paragraph, because the second allows, as is known, on a level playing field with other States, the limitations of sovereignty necessary for a system that ensures peace and justice between nations and promotes and promotes international organizations aimed at this purpose. From the beginning of the Republic, the effort to build peace is an active effort, which obliges our country to compete in international fora to maintain peace as a permanent effort. To do this, of course, we must want peace and not just want to be left alone; they are two different things and our country cannot afford it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lanzillotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u32	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to stress the importance and urgency of Parliament adopting this measure. A measure which has come to the debate today at second reading and at a very short time; a circumstance which does not put us in a position, in fact, to make a significant contribution, as we would have liked, and the speed with which the discussion in the relevant foreign and defence committees has been addressed gives us confirmation of this evidence. Clearly this is understandable, given the importance of the measures introduced and the commitments that Italy currently covers on the international scene and that it is right and proper to maintain. The approval of the text is in fact a fundamental step for the foreign policy of our country, to reaffirm the importance of the continuity of Italy's international commitment in the processes of peace and democratic stabilisation. However, although I agree with the desire to define the procedure of the measure quickly, I myself wanted to speak with some amendments on issues which I consider to be significant and which are of critical importance for which the solution can no longer be postponed. What absolutely does not go in this important decree is the introduction of the rules on the elections of the Comites, which are obviously not uniform with the rest of the measure. I do not want the undersecretary of the Widow to whom I attach no responsibility. I would also like to apologise to my fellow Members if I would remind you of this subject, which, however, is the only element that I personally set out a priori and I find it useful to spend a little more time in general discussion to highlight it. On the substance, I would like to remind everyone that the previous postponement of the elections for the renewal of the Comites and the JTIE was justified only and exclusively with a view to reordering the general legislation. Instead, after years of waiting, suddenly someone, I would say sneak, presents us with a questionable mechanism and sends us armored in an urgent decree: I refer to the provisions of Article 10 of the decree, which represents a forcing and denounces an unacceptable lack of consideration of the indispensable role of the representations. The introduction of these rules, of a completely different nature from the subject of missions, is also disconcerting because, despite the decisive negative significance of the mechanism introduced, the same was not at all shared in the relevant fora, the Commission for Foreign Affairs and the Committee for the Issues of Italians abroad. We find it there without anyone, on the part of the Ministry, raising the problem of having the appropriate assessments made in the parliamentary bodies. This is a serious indicator of the difficulties on the issues of Italian representations abroad, of which we have already had a great deal in the debate on electoral reform. Today we are witnessing a further speech on the subject without any detailed discussion of the issues. But even more serious it is to have identified shortly, even before the approval of this decree, the date of the elections for the renewal of the Comites, set for the middle of December; signal that such comparison and parliamentary evaluation, in fact, did not interest. This course of action is certainly questionable, and the voting mechanism introduced is questionable. Without adequate prior information, in fact, the sending of the electoral poll to the electorate only if they make express request to the consular office, will drastically reduce the participation in the vote, leaving it in the hands of the usual organized structures and causing a serious deficit of democracy. Perhaps, I have to think, this is precisely the objective of someone within the Ministry's administration, aimed at enhancing the common places that restore a negative image of the world of emigration of Italians abroad, rather than supporting the extent of our presence abroad and the need to give you support even with a reasoned appreciation of representation. As elected senators abroad, we had posed the problem of ensuring participation as much as possible, precisely because of the importance we believe these elections have, also through a short postponement of six months, to 2015 - as also proposed by Senator Tonini - that allow more information for our fellow countrymen, using the sums allocated by the Government for 2014 to start an effective information work of the electoral body and to ensure the formation of electoral lists based on certain data. But the Ministry has decided not to accept our requests and this choice manifests precisely the will of a real strategy of delegitimization of these bodies of political representation, putting in place interventions not coordinated between them and without an overall reasoning on the relationship between the Comites and the elected parliamentarians in the foreign constituency. With reference to the need to renew the Comites, in fact, it seems to me that the term of democracy has been abused by those who are helping to make a farce the renewal of the representative bodies of Italians abroad. We must all be aware that, as planned, these elections represent only a useless waste of public money and the only result will have been to have done a favor to the blindness probably of some bosses' structure. Yes, because with this mechanism, which effectively restricts the electorate's audience, no one will recognize full democratic legitimacy to these representations and the result will be, not already to renew, but to perpetuate only in the old and short-sighted logic of conservation. All this, among other things, will put the Ministry in the objective difficulty of having to face a lot of appeals and disputes. In addition to the damage, the mockery: a mockery that is not understood by those who benefit. I would also like to say to some of my colleagues, who perhaps did not understand the meaning of this maneuver, that this is only the first step, or, in any case, the pretext for those who have always denigrated and see the representation of Italians abroad as a useless and negative factor. I, like many other colleagues who know the reality of the foreign constituency, and the Comites in particular, have submitted corrective amendments to the rules introduced surreptitiously in this decree. However, since I understand the need for speedy adoption of this text, I can already announce that I will withdraw my amendments on this subject. However, I would like to point out that I am only doing this because in the Commission (and today in this House) an agenda has been adopted, shared with my colleagues in the foreign constituency, which commits the Government in a precise and precise manner, as Mr Micheloni has also pointed out, and of which we hope there is no blindness - even in this case - not to accept its common sense. However, I want to point out and condemn this strategy, put in place by someone to clearly delegitimize representation abroad. Those responsible for this delegitimization will have to take full responsibility for it. There are many Italians abroad who have understood it and who are not willing to be complicit in this farce that does not benefit Italians abroad, does not benefit representation and does not benefit democracy. Then do what you want. Unfortunately, we can't tell you anything, but we can only tell you: we told you. [[Applause from Senator Micheloni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u34	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this measure provides for the financing, with EUR 453 million, of almost 30 military missions around the world. It should be pointed out immediately that less than 2 million of these 453 will go to Iraq. I say this because it is time to stop using situations and episodes, like that of beheadings, to scatter Italian armed forces in the middle of the world for interests that, in reality, are interests of power, money and control of strategic resources that unite political summits, economic interests of the energy resource sector and factories of weapons, means and military technologies; true reason why these missions are carried out. Of the 453 million, 183 are allocated to the two missions in Afghanistan: ISAF and EUPOL. Afghanistan is a country that, after the interventions of foreign countries, has seen the fundamentalist forces join together with drug and arms traffickers; a country deeply divided because it is waterproof to the centralist political-social model that has been imposed in recent years. But this decree gives the start, in a subtle and non-transparent way, to the permanence of our Armed Forces well beyond the expected conclusion of the ISAF and EUPOL missions, set at 31 December of this year. In fact, the new NATO Resolute support mission is already planned, which sees Italy as one of the main actors. Without the present decree providing for the withdrawal of our troops and military resources in Afghanistan, we are in fact starting our stay well beyond 31 December, since the withdrawal cannot be organized overnight. When the Government informs the Parliament to deliberate as provided for in paragraph 3-a of Article 2 of the decree under consideration it will be late to organize the return of troops and means, including our special forces, which also reveal the falseness of the no-combat nature that the NATO Resolve support mission should have. At present, the SOFA (Status of Forces Agreement) and the BSA (Bilateral security agreement) have not yet been signed with Afghanistan, indispensable legal instruments regulating the presence of the armed forces in Afghanistan and indicating the legal competence for any litigation situation involving our armed forces and our soldiers. Our participation in international missions must therefore be denounced as a dirty unblocking of business by groups of economic interest, which base the increase of their power on the production and trade of weapons and, of course, on their use and consumption; other than bringing peace to the world! It is the same non-governmental organizations operating in these countries that testify that those populations need much less expensive humanitarian and economic aid, rather than the presence of armed troops, which often constitute, precisely these, a reason for escalation of the conflicts in existence. Peace is never pursued by multiplying the presence of weapons and armies and no one has ordered Italy to play the role of international police, nor our territories - and I am thinking of my Sardinia - to have that very sad role as a place where one exercises and forms to use weapons around the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u37	As he is not present in this Chamber, he is intended to give up his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u38	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u39	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, our missions are not new to the Government: we know that every six months we have to refinance them. Therefore, the first thing that struck us is that the government has forgotten that it has military personnel around the world. Expires on June 30 the last financing, see the decree-law for its renewal arrive - a decree-law because it was necessary to intervene urgently! - even on the 1st of August, that is, one month behind this deadline, makes us think: the government, its military contingents, do you think about it? Do you have a schedule? Do you have the necessary attention? In fact, today we are here to approve the law of conversion and we have to run like crazy because the decree expires on 30 September, so, by nose, it seems to me that next week we would already be out of time. We cannot, therefore, carry out a minimum of amendment on the text that came from the House, but we will have to confine ourselves to making suggestions - and that is why today perhaps it is more the agenda than the amendments - knowing that we will probably not be able to adopt one of them. We have noted some positive and negative issues in this text. For example, we were satisfied because an amendment tabled by the League was accepted in the House, which calls into question and re-evaluates our participation in anti-piracy missions, also in the light of the dispute we have with India. We were left alone by the international community. After Italy took part in the two missions Atalanta and Ocean shield, the first under the European aegis, the second even of NATO, it is not possible to think that our military, exposed on a mission to carry out its own role of military support, therefore armed, to civilian convoys, because of a mess, if we want (because if you do not know on the ship who commands: the military, the shipowner, the commander of the ship?) have basically stumbled into this very unpleasant incident and the international community has left Italy alone to deal with its own events. We must say that, despite the costs presented, we know that our missions will cost much more because, for example, of Mare nostrum, in this measure there is not even the shadow: it is completely out of the synopsis of our missions. This makes us think that the actual cost of the foreign mission system is not exactly what appears today in the bill of conversion. We have then compared the overall picture with the previous missions and we have seen that there are not very big news: we have some aid, gifts of arms to the Kurds and peshmerga, which were not there before, and the new observation operation for Mozambique; net of these news, there is a continuation practically in line with the previous missions. One criticism that we have always made systematically at every renewal of permits is fragmentation. There is too much fragmentation: we are a little everywhere, like parsley, and this means that there is a dispersion of efforts where efforts should be concentrated more where the interests of our country are concentrated. Let us think of Libya and the chaos in which that country has fallen: the Italian strategy has failed towards Libya, a country vital to our energy supplies, which could help on the issue of the control of migratory flows. Well, Libya is as strategic as our interventions in that area are not very careful. Another aspect on which we may go further is the free supply of arms. Pakistan remains a question mark, because it is true that our M-113 aircraft are very old, but it is also true that on Pakistan some doubt remains at the League. Our presence in Afghanistan, which lasted more than a decade, saw a collaborative Pakistan in words, but sometimes cooperating, perhaps also offering hospitality to the Taliban: on which side was that country? Officially he fought on our forehead but in practice he kept very ambiguous behaviors. Coming to our participation in the missions, we start from Europe and see that our presence continues in the Balkans, in Kosovo, with EUFOR Althea in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let us make the point: with EUR 139,000 for the mission to Bosnia, what can we do? The presence of personnel is probably minimal, perhaps even symbolic, and is part of that plethora of micro-presence, of micro-missions on which we would like to discuss perhaps to concentrate and rationalize the interventions better. As well as our participation in Cyprus, it is true that it costs little (134,000 euros), but what are we doing in Cyprus? We keep some kind of antenna, some kind of observation point, because that's all you can't expect. In Asia we are trying to understand how the ISAF mission will be transformed: we know that it will end this year and then there will be the future resolute support mission that is still not clear. How many men will remain in Afghanistan? How many will we take home, how many will come back? If Resolute support is to be a phase of stabilisation and reconstruction, should they remain military or should they be left to international cooperation? Not that we see international cooperation better, because there control is essentially zero, but we need to understand what the military will do that will remain in Afghanistan with the new mission. We know that in Afghanistan (that is why I spoke of cooperation) an important body of nurses and military volunteers of the Red Cross will remain; they will probably be able to give the necessary support to the populations in the reconstruction phase. We see that our UNIFIL presence in Lebanon continues with a function that arouses in us some concerns and, in any case, some concerns: the training of the Lebanese Armed Forces. It is true that we will have to support the official army, but we have understood that Lebanon is a great mess. What is the official army? The one who answers directly to the Lebanese government? Or what responds to the parallel Hezbollah organization, which is recognized there as a humanitarian force and social organization in support of the civilian population (he also manages hospitals), but also as military training alongside the official army? I am also critical of our presence in the Palestinian area and our mission in Hebron, with which we train the Palestinian security forces. Again, the Palestinian security forces should respond to Fatah, but we know that the issue is somewhat controversial. There we also find Hamas and the risk is that we send weapons or personnel to train police and military that then we do not know exactly on which front they will go to position. The same presence on the Rafah Crossroads is essentially ineffective: EUR 60,000 (for which it is a pure presence, such as that in Palestine) have been allocated to fund the police forces of the EUPOL contrast mission. But this presence of ours in three operations in Palestine ends up disturbing even a little 'Israel, which is perhaps the only area and force of stabilization in a great chaos that remains at the borders. I would like to say two things about Libya: I think we should be very careful. The aid to the Libyan Armed Forces is fine and, for the sake of our support, we have given naval units to their Coast Guard also to deal with the phenomenon of illegal immigration. It is okay to finance this operation, but we need to assess its effectiveness. It seems to us that from Mare nostrum onwards that kind of guarantee that from the coasts no longer went underground has been completely disregarded. The effective effectiveness of this mission must be reviewed. In conclusion, Mr President, we think that, beyond what can be criticized and what can be supported by this decree, it is not exhaustive, because during the year we are sure that it will have to be integrated with a mission that until yesterday was not conceivable, but from tomorrow it will have to be done by force: it is a mission that will involve the whole of the West in first confronting and then defeating that group of terrorists that has settled at the turn of two states, Iraq and Syria. Fortunately, we did not follow the original American line of countering Assad by helping the rebels, because we would have armed the people from whom we now have to look. We have read all the great headlines in the newspapers and it is today the news that, with a brutality that we cannot even look at, we impose a model that wants a war and even a condemnation to those who belong to a different culture: we die because we have a different religion or because we belong to a country that they consider hostile. We can't accept this. We believe that we will have to make efforts; alas, it is not nice to say that we will have to go to war, but we cannot accept that civilians lovers of the mountains, people like us, who tomorrow go on a trip or tourism in an Islamic country end up in the hands of those we have seen, with dead and brutal ends that our culture cannot accept. It is an attack on our way of life and also on our habits; we will end up no longer leaving home and it is not acceptable. Therefore, Mr Rossi, the Government will have to tell us and report in Parliament what Italy will do in the face of this phenomenon, which until yesterday seemed almost like a game of four terrorists, but which is really worrying the international community. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u40	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u41	Mr President, we have not actually been today, but we have been expressing a very strong dissension and discomfort for a long time as this Parliament addresses, even in a ritual way, if we may say so, the subject of military missions. Moreover, as has also been mentioned this morning several times in various interventions, this happens mainly because we adopt the practice of using a kind of omnibus decree - we could call it so - which contains completely uneven rules within it. Over the course of these years we have asked very many times to be able to discuss the individual missions separately, which are very different, and to separate from these the interventions of international cooperation, also in order to finally allow this House to enter into the substance of some very serious issues that are open. Instead, in the decree-law that we are discussing this morning, not only do we once again face, as I said, very different missions between them, but, as has been mentioned, even the subject of the renewal of the Committees of Italians abroad, a matter that really has nothing to do with this type of topic. Unfortunately, therefore, this difficulty puts us in a position to fail to carry out that debate and probably also the basic political budget that would serve to express an opinion and a clear opinion on what is happening. That is the point and it is all political. I am referring to the consolidated use of the form of the decree-law and the way in which we approach this matter almost as if we were faced with an omnibus decree that does not allow us a sufficiently detailed argument. As has been mentioned, we are talking about 26 missions that are completely different from each other. Over the course of these years, for example, we have had great dissensions about the mission in Afghanistan and instead a very positive judgment (I have also had the opportunity to see it personally with my eyes) of the work that the UNIFIL mission is carrying out in Lebanon, where there is not simply a very serious rigor on the part of our military, which is certainly there in all parts of the world, but in that specific case that military mission has a utility that, on the other hand, is really not there. This way of thinking does not allow us to enter into the substance of the fundamental events nor to enter into the merit of the duration of the missions, decisions, choices, while probably - if I may say so in this way - it would serve what happens more easily in other European countries, that is, a fundamental reasoning and a political balance on the geopolitical and geostrategic choices that have been carried out over all these years. All except this, which instead becomes a sort of rite that is repeated every six months (in some cases, these are missions that have been going on for more than twenty years) and that inevitably ends with the fact that we do not hold that debate which, instead, hopefully, should go beyond the parliamentary classrooms and invest active subjectivity on issues such as these. I am referring, in other words, to those areas of civil society which, throughout all these years, have been very committed to these issues and have all the titles and merits to be able to discuss them and are excluded. Of course, six months ago we appreciated a very small one, but - in our opinion - quite frankly insufficient, step forward, that is the division by geographical areas and continental areas of missions. Once again, however, we consider this - as I said a moment ago - completely inadequate. In fact, as we mentioned earlier, when we voted on the constitutional conditions, there are completely different missions: those of NATO, those of the UN and those of the European Union. Mr President, even if the technical files attached to this decree are purely and simply descriptive, and do not contain more concrete data on the duration, mandate, implementation details and rules for the engagement of missions, it once again prevents, in some way, this budget which would be useful. There is here a fundamental political issue which we, for the umpteenth time, strongly ask this Parliament to discuss: the compliance, on which we should reason, with the objectives that we set ourselves when a military mission was born to achieve them. We do not discuss this - alas - but we should do so, Mr President, also in the light of what is happening during these weeks, these days and even these hours, in a world unfortunately increasingly complex and increasingly crossed by conflicts, faced with increasingly dramatic global scenarios. It would probably be even more decisive to make a fundamental political assessment of the choices made in recent years. We believe, for example, that some political, military, geopolitical and geo-strategic choices made during these years have proved to be completely wrong, indeed completely bankrupt. Indeed, they have not at all solved the question of the stabilisation of certain geographical areas within which, on the other hand, conflicts have increased further, and probably also because of the way in which the missions have been carried out. However, we are not able to discuss what should be done with regard to the compliance of the current missions, for which - in fact - we are asking for an extension today. This is true of Libya - for example - where there is a situation of general state collapse - but perhaps we already knew this - and even of probable civil war since in that country, we are now dealing with two governments, two parliaments and two armed coalitions fighting each other. Then we really wonder whether it is permissible to ask ourselves, in a country like Libya, in the light of what has happened, whether we can actually talk about a general failure of the kind of mission that has been conducted. We would need a rigorous budget for Libya and also - let me say this - for Palestine, where we have military missions in Hebron and the Sahel: missions that, in this particular case, deal mainly with the aspect of human rights. But, compared to what is happening in Palestine, we have urged this House a thousand times to discuss it in a broader way and, instead, we have only held a few debates in the Commission. But on a subject such as the Palestinian question, which is so central to the balance of that area, we think that an opportunity has really been missed. Let me also stress an element that, in part, screams with a consolidated tradition of our country's foreign policy: I think I have heard - and I say this with kindness - very shy words from the national government about what happened in Gaza. I would have asked the national government - and I also ask today - much more sharper than what is happening there. 11:31 a.m. (Followed by Mr de Cristofaro). In the course of the Gaza crisis, we would have liked to hear words which, unfortunately, we did not hear and we would have liked at least to be allowed to open a debate. Half a civil society in this country, a substantial part of democratic associationism, the pacifist world and the associations that have been fighting on the spot for years, as well as an increasing part of public opinion speak of the suspension and interruption of the sending of arms to Israel. In our country, however, we have unfortunately not had a serious and appropriate parliamentary debate on this issue. I do not want to talk so much about Afghanistan, because I have done so many times over the past few months, but the fact remains that we have been there for 12 years now and we do not know the details of the activities of our military. Here again, frankly, we would have liked a much stricter attitude on the part of Parliament than the need to get into the substance of certain issues which are obviously of great importance. Over the past months, right at the beginning of the parliamentary term, we have also tabled a proposal for a framework law on the provisions concerning Italian participation in international operations and missions. We should also intervene on the purely legislative ground, imagining - for example - a law that finally defines to the full the nature of the missions and provides that the military missions in which our country is engaged are carried out rigidly within the borders of Article 11 of the Constitution and international treaties, with particular regard, of course, to the statute of the UN. All this, Madam President, means that the element that has really been missing over all these months, and which unfortunately is still missing, is a fundamental reflection on the role of our country. I would like to discuss, not only with my fellow senators but with the whole country, the political and strategic role of our country. Is Italy simply a performer of what is decided elsewhere, by NATO or the United States, or can it be a producer of dialogue and peace, even with an autonomous role? Being a topic very dear to the best tradition of our country's foreign policy even in the past years, I find it really strange that on this aspect you can not put in place an element of novelty, of which there would be great need [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Falanga and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u42	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u43	Madam President, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who listen to us - fortunately for you - from outside, I would like to start my speech from Article 11 of the Constitution. Even if we all know him in and out here, it can only be good to say it again: Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes. TONINI (PD). And then it goes on, though. Read it all! SANTANGELO (M5S). I will begin immediately with a question to the Subsecretaries present here: how does Article 11 of the Constitution combine with the supply of weapons made only a few months ago? How can we Italians, who repudiate war, arm someone who will use those weapons, which are not of defense, but of offense, against another person and remain within Article 11? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] TONINI (PD). Continue reading the rest of Article 11! SANTANGELO (M5S). I want to talk to you today about a problem of method, and you will forgive me, Madam President, for the fact that I intend to turn again to the camera at the top, as the only window to the outside. This decree-law came armored. Citizens, armored means that the Government has decided for the umpteenth time that on something that comes to the examination of Parliament, and on which Parliament should give its contribution and its indications, cannot be improved: on what the Government and the majority have decided cannot even be submitted the amendments, which are the only way to modify a measure. The acts of the Defence and Foreign Commissions of the Senate remain the words that President Latorre made clearly: "Sirs, this decree is armored. Nor are the amendments tabled because we are wasting time. I, who arrived the day before yesterday, wonder what can be done. I feel helpless. Do I present the amendments that I consider to be important? Do I contribute? I'm gonna leave everything and go? Should I raise my hand to vote? Do I insert the card to report my presence and take the presence token? What am I going to do here? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I ask everyone, because at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing does not make sense. Don't take this, fellow senators, as an attack on you, because I understand your frustration. At this moment, only a hundred senators are present in this House. Should we not all be present in the face of such an important issue, even during the general discussion? Even if we do not vote, even if we do not press the button of the voting mechanism, should we not all be here to confront each other and find a synthesis? WRITER IN ZUANNA (PD). You're not here either! You're half of it! SANTANGELO (M5S). Co-worker, I'm saying something for you, for your dignity, because you'll find yourself raising your helpless hand, voting helpless. All the amendments, you will see, will be rejected... WRITER IN ZUANNA (PD). Count how many you are! SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm saying it with my heart in your hands, too. I'm telling you, too! Gentlemen Undersecretaries, I apologise for the tone of my speech. Last week the Minister of Defence said that there is no planning, for example, for what concerns the Libyan crisis and I for this - believe me - I have not been able to deal with it for ten days. I come from a limit zone, limit for many reasons, which is Sicily. All come on holiday in Sicily. From the center of the Mediterranean we have become a border zone. There are state-of-the-art satellite systems and bases that are used, as well as for military reasons, also for civil purposes, especially for civil purposes because infrastructure does not exist. I have put a trivial question to you in the past, hoping to find an answer (I have also tabled an agenda with the hope that it will be accepted). Are the bases of Comiso, Pantelleria and Birgi, that is, the Sicilian bases and the Sardinian ones closest to the state of chaos present in North Africa, in a state of alert? Could they be closed in a month, ten days or six months? Are we getting ready for this? We're talking about Operation Mare nostrum. I ask you, beyond the importance of the operation that is undisputed, if it serves to save lives. What's that for? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The amount of deaths in the Mediterranean is incredible! I would just like to give an example to you, my colleague, who have just suffered. I live in Trapani and frequent a beach that is located in the historic center of Trapani, where I bring my children. Well, the first days of September was found a gymnastics shoe with a foot inside. Gentlemen, let's not go around. Yes, it is true, there are so many complicated situations in the world, but in this disastrous historical and economic phase, in which really there are so many priorities in Italy, let's make an examination of conscience and ask ourselves if it is good to spend a billion on all 30 missions or if it is appropriate to concentrate only on some that presuppose the respect of our Constitution and spend the remaining part of the resources, perhaps, to save some more human life. From the point of view of defence, Mr. and Mrs. Undersecretaries, there is a huge mess: throughout the South there has been a real invasion of desperate people. Then we made a mistake. Do this examination of conscience! I ask you how you would feel in my place, unable to make a contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u44	Senator Santangelo, I've given you two more minutes than the time at your disposal that you're still subtracting from your group. You may continue your speech, if you think so, but I would remind you that your colleagues will have less time available. You take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u45	SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you for the two minutes, Mr President, and I shall begin to conclude. Really take mine as an exhortation and nothing else. Let's stop it. Let's stop it. A decree of this kind cannot be discussed in this way. It can't be done. It's not dignified to me. It is not dignified towards anyone, not even the people who listen to us from outside and do not understand well what is happening. I've also seen embarrassment in the eyes of government representatives. I can feel it. Then let's all raise our heads together. Let's move! Let's try to sum it up. We Italians are a capable people. From a cultural point of view, we are prepared for dialogue and confrontation. Why should we not, then, do so within Parliament? Why? Are my interests the same as yours? If that is not the case, let us put them out and try to understand together what to do in the face of the forecast of an arms expenditure of 1 to 2%, i.e. 20 to 40 million. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I invite you to conclude. SANTANGELO (M5S). President, we have minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, then. SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you. I'm putting a series of themes on the plate. Our Group has tabled amendments, as have other groups. These proposals must be voted on, but not taken by party: read them, verify them. We have also presented agendas, which are little, to be honest, since they represent an almost moral commitment. I hope, however, that these agendas will be accepted as they are written: I urge you not to change a comma and turn them into a recommendation, because that would mean that they would be depowered further. Put in the good will. We'll put it together with you. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u46	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u47	Madam President, we would all like a world without weapons, but weapons are used to defend peace and pacifism in all respects of beautiful souls and end up tying - I hope unknowingly - for the cutthroat, for the Islamic terrorists who - they do - threaten peace and our civilization. The Forza Italia Group will therefore vote in favour of the extension of our participation in international peace missions. He will vote in favour, as he always did when he was a majority and as he will do today that he is in opposition, first of all to express gratitude to those thousands of women and men who every day risk their lives for peace in the crucial areas of the world. This gratitude, however, cannot be expressed only in words. We believe, in fact, that the demands of the trade unions and the military representation of all the police and armed forces must be met and that the release of the salary ceiling, which has severely penalised them in recent years, must be quickly exceeded. Parliament in the last parliamentary term introduced the principle of the specificity of their profession, which was a real achievement for the recognition of their rights, but it is an illusory conquest, indeed a mockery, if it is not filled with concrete content. As I said, our military is engaged in many parts of the world: in Kosovo, the Balkans, Eastern Europe, as in Afghanistan, Libya, Lebanon, Central Africa and the Indian Ocean. But here we are asking the first question: Italy will complete, by 31 December, the mission to Afghanistan, which began 12 years ago. However, according to the commitments made by the previous Government, our country should maintain a large number of military advisors - there is talk of 800 - while Britain, to take the example of a great ally of ours, would maintain only 200. In light of the reduced spending capacity, aggravated by the announced spending review, and of the new international emergencies at the door of our home, and also considering that our country has entered the international coalition against the Islamic caliphate, we believe that it is appropriate to favour scenarios become more strategic for our national interest, rather than to maintain significant contingents of men and means in areas where operational needs have significantly decreased compared to the beginning of missions, such as Kosovo, or in areas certainly still at risk, such as Lebanon, but where the bulk of the multinational force is provided especially by Italy. In this sense, paragraph 3-bis introduced to the House to the decree at our examination opens the way to a reflection that Government and Parliament will have to do together. In the same way it has been opportune to insert paragraph 7 -bis on the eventual suspension of the mission in Libya, that in all evidence it is not achieving none of the pre-set objectives, persevering the situation of total political instability and having become now the free port of the traffickers of human beings. There are, therefore, areas of crisis in the world and clear threats of war, first of all the Iraqi-Syrian one, where in the 21st century a large Islamic caliphate has risen, now more than Belgium, because of the blindness and the lack of foresight of a West that, in order to break down the regime of Assad, has even financed and given weapons to Sunni fundamentalism. This is the crucial challenge facing the civilized world today. However, in order to best address this threat to the very heart of Europe - as demonstrated by the barbaric killing of the French hostage in Algeria - we must immediately recover the spirit of the historic Maritime Practice Summit, which had led Russia for the first time to be permanently a NATO partner and not an opponent. So, today we have to ask ourselves, while our Folgore dads participate in exercises with the allies at the borders of Russia, whether Europe and Italy have really chosen the right path, or if they are not playing with fire, starting with the sanctions imposed in Moscow, which are inflicting another very hard blow on our exports, our companies, our economy. We would like our Government to contribute, especially in this six-month EU leadership, to regain a more profitable relationship with Putin's Russia, which - whether willing or not - remains a strategic partner in the fight against Islamic fundamentalism. Let us be clear: our war frontier at this historic moment is in the South-East, not in the East of Europe! In this regard, we welcomed the inclusion in the decree of paragraph 4-bis, which authorizes the expenditure for the transport of humanitarian aid to the Iraqi civilian population and also for the transport of armaments to the Kurdish peshmerga, which at this moment represent the only opponent who fights with ground troops the militias of the Islamic caliphate. When we talk about international missions, it is necessary, finally, to refer to the story of Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, our two maròs, a story unfortunately far from resolved. Parliament has already expressed itself, precisely on the occasion of the previous decrees to extend international missions, unanimously, for the internationalization of the matter, and has committed the Government to assume an international arbitration as the right line for the resolution of the case. Unfortunately, this has not yet been done. Today, with this decree-law, Parliament is taking a further step forward. In fact, an amendment was adopted which commits the Government to continue our participation precisely in those anti-piracy missions carried out under the aegis of NATO and the European Union, based on the developments of the events of the two Navy rifles in India. It is a fundamental principle that the internationalization of the crisis, the involvement of international bodies is an indispensable condition to continue our participation, also as a sign of guarantee to the military engaged in those anti-piracy missions that we carry out with our partners, from which we demand, therefore, their participation in the resolution of the matter. Of course, there are inescapable diplomatic issues and diplomacy often travels crooked paths. But it is clear that the definitive return to the Homeland of Latorre and Girone is an act due also for humanitarian reasons, in front of the detention in India, for more than two and a half years, of two military without having been formulated to them any charge and for events happened in international waters on a ship flying the Italian flag, while operating on a mission on behalf of our State. Italy must affirm a fundamental principle of sovereignty also legal of our country: no other state can judge our military engaged abroad. No other state can judge Italian military for events in international waters. No other state can judge soldiers representing Italy. And it is for this reason that Italy must, in every way and in every place, ensure that they are granted that principle of functional immunity to which they are entitled. After two and a half years we must not renounce this legal principle and this principle which no nation would renounce, precisely for all those thousands of Italian soldiers who are now engaged abroad and who ask that this be done to protect not only their rights, but also and above all the rights of Latorre and Girone. In this regard, it is from a few minutes ago the news, beaten by the agencies, that the Registry of the Supreme Court of India has ordered yet another postponement, to 12 December, of the hearing for the appeal presented by our maròs, as three of the four Indian stakeholders have not yet submitted their opinions on the competence or not of the Indian Special Anti-Terrorism Police, the NIA, to carry out the investigations. It is yet another mockery and I hope that the Government will move with even greater commitment on this front. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u48	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u49	Madam President, Italy's role in international missions and in cooperation and stabilisation activities is now a permanent and structural choice of our foreign and defence policy. It has been said, on several occasions, that we intend to act effectively, as protagonists, in the protection of international law and in the promotion of a global system capable of ensuring peace and civil coexistence. It is appropriate to remind us all that, from this point of view, our international projection in the theatres of crisis, and therefore the essential nature of the same decrees-laws extending missions, has followed over the years a line of substantial continuity and coherence. In this context, it should be stressed that over the last four years there has been a gradual decrease in the use of staff and financial resources, as a result of developments in the areas of crisis in which we have been engaged, as well as due to the well-known needs for the containment of public expenditure. The commitment that we have pursued in our international projection has, however, concentrated the most substantial part of men and women and financial resources, precisely in three particular areas, considered as priorities in our specific foreign and defence policy. All this taking into account, in particular, the Italian position within the multilateral organisations to which we belong and within the European Union itself. In fact, the Balkans, Lebanon and Afghanistan have absorbed around 75% of the total resources made available by the various regulatory measures adopted over the years. In this regard, it is noted that the same document at our examination confirms, with few variations, this approach already present, precisely, in the previous decrees. Now, however, I believe that the debate cannot avoid considering the elements of profound novelty that the international situation gives us and that the harshness of the chronicle of these hours proposes us. We have, in fact, entered one of those historical phases in which the continuous accelerations of the processes seem to be, themselves, protagonists in drawing, in marking new and more complicated scenarios. These are completely new situations for us, but in some cases - I am thinking for example of the issue of the Caliphate - they propose in a contemporary key themes that we considered buried by time and history. In any case, the type and nature of the ongoing crises and new instability, beginning with the threat of jihadist terrorism, is not only such as to put precise geographical quadrants at risk, but could negatively affect the system of international relations and institutions that up to now, although lacking and flawed, has nevertheless allowed to strengthen the instruments in the field for multilateral crisis management. This puts us, therefore, in the face of new tasks. The current scenarios make a different and more effective defence and security policy indispensable. They call on us to contribute to the construction of a new political capacity of the multilateral organisations we are part of. They urge us to improve the effectiveness of the response to the new threats by widening - I insist, widening - the framework of the same alliances and solidarity that exist today. Since this is the situation in which we must measure ourselves, it is our specific responsibility to contribute to crisis management, but we must also commit ourselves to a new set of international relations that will ensure stability and full respect for human rights. From this new context comes the need for an update of our defence model, also reducing and requalifying the same military spending. The work that will be undertaken by the Government and Parliament on the subject of the White Paper is, therefore, a fundamental opportunity for a wide and conscious confrontation in the whole field. Hence the need, again, to overcome the current authorisation procedure for international missions based on the decree of urgency, by offering Parliament an annual regulatory instrument allowing a wider, more participatory, more transparent debate on all the international projection commitments in which Italy's role is expected. We have been talking about this need for a long time: I think it is time to give it full implementation. On the merits of the measure, the same changes made by the Chamber of Deputies during the first reading are there to signify the will of Parliament to be fully involved in the definition and implementation of the policies of international projection of the country. It is still true that the text, as improved, also shows that this will is received by the Government itself, demonstrating the willingness to realize with the Chambers an increasingly effective confrontation. Madam President, all this is useful precisely because of the emergence of the new and more complicated crisis scenarios, which make Italy's foreign and defence policy a place - I insist, a place - where all political forces are called to assume new, and perhaps completely new, responsibilities. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u50	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteurs do not wish to speak in response, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u51	Madam President, I just wanted to highlight a few points which I think are important and which have also been highlighted by some of the speakers, because they are exactly the same as the Government's intentions. The first point is the recalled framework law. The Government has already provided, on several occasions, its willingness to work, clearly by common agreement with the relevant parliamentary committees, for the definition of the framework law as soon as possible, which it considers to be an absolutely indispensable element in eliminating certain discrasies highlighted during this debate, as in previous debates. The law is incarnate in the Defense Committee and we hope that the parliamentary debate, that is the parliamentary process, will proceed as soon as possible, and on this the Government once again confirms its full availability. The second point I would like to highlight is the question of the White Paper, given that doubts have been raised on several occasions or questions about the validity of certain missions. It is clear that the missions must meet the strategic objectives of this country. We know that our country, unlike many others, lacks precisely this, that is a white paper that defines the strategic objectives through which to outline the tasks and arrangements of the Armed Forces, as well as the places and points where to intervene in support of diplomatic action and international relations. That is why a White Paper, of which the guidelines have already been issued and approved, is a main focus of this Government, and we think we can issue it, that is to say, bring it to the attention of Parliament, by the end of the year. The third point - and this has also been mentioned, but I would like to stress this - is the European Union's speech. It is clear that we need a common European defence that is stronger than the existing one, both in its technical aspects and in its operational arrangements. This, too, is - I repeat - a focus of our six-month European Presidency. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, I would also say that, as approved by the House of Deputies' amendment, this Government has absolutely no remorse. It did not approve a subtle amendment, but accepted an amendment in order to be able to actually confirm that any subsequent decision will be submitted for parliamentary deliberation. In this sense, therefore, we reiterate what has already been pointed out on several occasions by Minister Pinotti in various hearings: the continuation of the current ISAF mission, in terms and in ways that will be identified, will be subject to parliamentary approval. I also like to reassure Senator Divine about the attention this Government places on men and women in uniform. There has indeed been a delay in the presentation of the decree-law, but - as already indicated in the written reply to Mr Marcolin's question - this has been the result of moments of identification of the financial cover. Moreover, it is reiterated, from the point of view of both the economic treatment and the criminal importance, that the staff was still covered during the period between the conclusion of the first measure and the enactment of the decree-law. I shall conclude on the question referred to by the Maròs, I confirm the utmost attention from the Government towards our two Navy rifles. I repeat that the acts to initiate international arbitration have already been carried out and are evaluating relations with the current Government of India before taking this initiative as well. In any case, the administrative arrangements and the definition of who will then have to carry out these acts have already been defined. So, I like to reiterate that the Government's attention to the two Navy rifles is high, as the Senate's attention is rightly high.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u52	I would like to say that the Presidency has received, and is being distributed, the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and its amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the examination of the agendas which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u53	The opinion on the G1 agenda was in favour. The opinion was opposed to the G2 agenda. Mr Lucherini will speak on the G3 and G4 agendas, as it falls within the competence of the Foreign Commission. With regard to the G5 agenda, I propose a rewording of the commitment mechanism, with the deletion of a few words, so that it can be concluded with the following words: 'in the Atlantic Alliance'. On the G6 agenda, when reworded in the sense of removing the first paragraph of the commitment mechanism, the opinion was in favour. I would like to make a request for the G7 agenda to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion would be against it. On the G8 agenda, which was already approved in substance in the House, the opinion was in favour, while it was against the G9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u54	On the G3 agenda, if reworded to replace the word: "necessary" with the words: "in order to favour all conditions," the opinion is in favour. I am in favour of the G4 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u55	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u56	Madam President, as far as the agenda for the G6 is concerned, subject to compliance with what the rapporteur said about the wording of the first paragraph, the Government calls for further reformulation. It is requested to replace the period by the words: "and the surpassing" by the words: "Military of peace" by the words: "and the definition of rules of military jurisdiction to be applied to the above-mentioned missions."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u57	Having been accepted by the Government, the G1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Calderoli, do you insist on voting on the G2 agenda? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President, and I would ask that it be carried out simultaneously by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u60	GAETTI (M5S). We also call for the subsequent votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u61	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). A proposal for a rewording has been put forward on the G3 agenda. Senator Calderoli, do you accept this proposal? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President, and I request the vote on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G4 agenda will not be put to the vote. On the G5 agenda, has a rewording been proposed, the proposer accepts it? DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am sorry, but I did not understand the rewording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The rapporteurs ask to expunge from the device the period from the words "to ask" until the end. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President, I accept the rewording and ask for the vote on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5 (text 2), presented by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On the G6 agenda, two amendments were requested, one by the rapporteurs, concerning the adoption of the first paragraph of the operative part, and one by Mr Rossi, with regard to the second paragraph. Shall I ask the presenters if they intend to accept them? Orellana (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I did not understand the change proposed by Mr Rossi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u62	I read the whole reworded period, senator: To provide for an organic reorganization of the rules concerning international missions in order to overcome the existing problems, in particular the use of the decree of urgency and the definition of rules of military jurisdiction to be applied to the aforementioned missions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u63	Do you accept or insist on the vote? Orellana (Misto-ILC). I accept the rewording, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u64	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. The G7 agenda has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G8 agenda will not be put to the vote. Divine Senator, do you insist on voting on the G9 agenda? DIVINE (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, I insist that it be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9, presented by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u67	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for clarification of the contrary opinion that the 5th Commission has expressed, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on amendments from 1.1 to 1.5. I would like to know what the explanatory statement is, since in the previous decree extending the missions amendments of the same kind have been voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Vice-President Sangalli is present in the Chamber: is he able to explain the explanatory statement of the opinion contrary to the amendments?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u68	Madam President, it is very simple: the opposite is because there are more burdens and we are in the absence of a technical report in support.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u69	We can only take note of that, provided that, as you know, Senator Marton, you can request, after verification of the support from the prescribed number of senators, that the amendments in question be put to the vote. The contrary opinion is not preclusive of the examination of the amendment. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u70	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u71	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u74	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. We also call for the vote, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, on the amendments on which the 5th Commission has voted against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u75	We need to check that we support the demands in a separate way. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us now move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). As has been said, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators, up to the words "paragraphs 1 ". . (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.1 and amendment 1.2. Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "paragraph 6. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.6 and amendment 1.7 are therefore not included. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u76	On the G1.1 agenda, I would also like to call for a withdrawal because I am in favour of the G1.2 agenda, which is similar in content. I am against the G1.3 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u77	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u78	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.2 will not be put to the vote. I ask Senator De Cristofaro if he accepts the invitation to withdraw the agenda G1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u79	I welcome the call for the withdrawal of the G1.1 agenda, but I insist on the vote on the G1.3 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u80	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.3 presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u81	Madam President, Amendment 2.1, which is completely deleted from paragraph 1, virtually deletes the resolution concerning Italy's participation in missions in Afghanistan. In addition to reaffirming our opposition to the uselessness of this mission and its excessive cost, the significance of the amendment is also to point out that these missions should end on 31 December, but no provision has been made for the organization of the withdrawal of our troops and especially of special troops, considering that the possible future resolute support mission should be no combat. Therefore, to approve, without any clarification on the substance, this part of the decree means, in my opinion, already indirectly to start the future mission in Afghanistan. That is one more reason to reject funding for our mission in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u82	Madam President, Rule 2 (1), (2) and (3) of the G2.3 agenda concerns the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Although this mission is in progress and clearly in transition, as deliveries are expected at the end of 2014, there is some evidence that we believe that, in reality, the Italian presence in Afghanistan will remain quite substantial even during 2015. Some of these evidences, for example, have already been illustrated by Senator Cotti. The same mission decree, paragraph 3-a, actually provides for the possibility that this presence be renewed in 2015 after an explicit request from the Afghan Government that at this point I believe will also be very likely, since the United States has no intention of deengaging in the area. Therefore, we will find ourselves essentially in March or April 2015 to vote a new decree-law that ratifys and endorses an Italian presence that will already be on the territory from 1 January and we will not be able to intervene in any way to remodulate or eliminate it. In our view it is very important that Parliament should now open a debate on our presence in Afghanistan, without reaching a situation in which we can do nothing, as is already the case with this mission decree, which provides for a renewal which starts on 1 July, so we can do nothing essentially. Precisely for this reason, the G2.3 agenda commits the Government from now on to provide for a plan of gradual withdrawal, in particular of six months, on the basis of which a situation will be reached whereby in June 2015 there will be no more Italian troops in Afghanistan. I therefore believe it is essential that Parliament should begin to discuss these issues from now on. Among other things, I recall that President Karzai himself had announced that the presence of the United States on Afghan territory is an obstacle to the peace process. I therefore believe that Italy must give a strong signal right now precisely in the direction of a withdrawal of troops.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u83	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u84	Madam President, I am against all the amendments. As regards the agenda, I call for the withdrawal of the agenda G2.1, while the opinion is in favour of the agenda G2.2. The opinion was also opposed to the agendas for G2.3 and G2.8. Invitation to withdraw agenda G2.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u85	I am against the G2.4 and G2.6 agendas, while the opinion is in favour of the G2.5 and G2.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u86	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u89	DI BIAGIO (PI). I welcome the call for the withdrawal of agenda G2.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u92	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u93	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Cotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, to the following words: "EUR 183,635,692" shall read as follows: '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.2 and amendments 2.3 and 2.4. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Cristofaro, do you withdraw the agenda G2.1? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.2 will not be put to the vote. Senator Bocchino, do you insist on voting on agenda G2.3?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u94	Madam President, I insist on voting on the agenda and would like to make an explanation of vote. I would like to know what elements prevent the gradual withdrawal, so not a break or a non-confirmation of a decree extending an existing situation in Afghanistan. I would like to know from the Government what are the reasons for the withdrawal from Afghanistan, more considering the fact that this mission is now in transition and it is expected that it will end on 31 December 2014. Also to remedy a regulatory vacuum that will be there from 1 January 2015 for the presence of our troops without there being a legal provision that endorses it. That is why I ask the Government to reconsider its opinion and to express the reasons which led to a negative opinion on this gradual decommitment of troops in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u95	Undersecretary Rossi, do you maintain the opposite opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u96	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u97	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.3 tabled by Senators Bocchino and Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Cristofaro, do you insist on voting on the agenda G2.4? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.4 presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the G2.5 agenda has been accepted by the Government, it will not be put to the vote. Senator De Cristofaro, do you insist on voting on agenda G2.6? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.6, presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G2.7 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator De Cristofaro, do you insist on voting on the agenda G2.8? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.8, presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agenda G2.9 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u98	Madam President, I would like to outline the agenda for the G3.8 meeting on employment by Western Saharan Morocco, which has been going on for almost forty years now. This is an illegal occupation, as repeatedly expressed in the UN resolutions that have dealt with it over the past few decades, because employment began in 1975. In particular, UN Security Council Resolution 690 of 1991 established Minurso, the United Nations International Mission for the referendum in Western Sahara, which has since been working - inefficiently, unfortunately - so that the Saharawi people can decide their own destiny through a referendum, thus gaining their own independence. I wonder how all these years and decades have been lived by this mild but dignified Saharawi people: they have been spent or under Moroccan occupation or in the desolation of refugee camps outside their land in the Algerian desert and refugee camps as in Tindouf. The Moroccan occupation, as indicated in the recent reports of Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, is characterized by violent and arbitrary repression of the Saharawi activists with unjustified arrests and summary trials. Well, when the Sahrawi population received the request for protection from the blue helmets of the Minurso mission, it became clear that the mandate of the mission does not include the protection of the civilian population and respect for human rights. The request made by this agenda is therefore intended to commit Italy, as a nation - therefore through its Government - to work explicitly in the appropriate international fora for the extension of the mandate of the Mission Minurso to respect human rights. In addition to ethical commitment, Italy and Europe should also manage and not forget this, which can be called a frozen conflict, because the pacifist choice of the Polisario Front must not be penalised for the guilty attention - not to say worse - of Italy and Europe. I therefore call on the Government to give a favourable opinion and the House to approve this agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u99	Madam President, I am against all the amendments. As regards agendas, I welcome the G3.1, tabled by Senator Calderoli, with a call for the rewording of the commitment mechanism, which in practice is already contained in the decree. I would therefore propose a rewording of this content: It commits the Government to evaluate, no later than 31 December 2014, the Italian participation in the anti-piracy missions in place in the Indian Ocean, in relation to the developments of the events of the Navy rifles currently held in India. On the agenda G3.2 presented by Senator Santangelo and reported to the civilian airport in Trapani, I suspend the opinion for a moment, awaiting the arguments of the Government. On the agenda, Mr G3.3 I would like to call for a withdrawal, while I am in favour of the G3.4 tabled by Senator De Cristofaro. On the agenda, Mr G3.5 I am voting in favour, and I call for the G3.7 (correct text) to be withdrawn, because it is identical to the previous one, which therefore absorbs it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u100	Madam President, I am in favour of the G3.6 agenda, signed by Mr De Cristofaro, with a substantial rewording: all the premises are removed and the third, fourth and last paragraphs of the provisions are removed. Under these conditions, the opinion is in favour. On the agenda G3.8, tabled by Senator Orellana, I give a favourable opinion with rewording, which consists in the elimination of all the part that follows the It is therefore a question of expunging from the text the part that begins with "starting from May 2005" and so on. With this rewording, the text is accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u101	Madam President, with regard to the defence-related amendments, the opinions are in line with those expressed by the rapporteur, subject to the call for the withdrawal of amendment 3.2, since the commitment to the Government, which is based on Article 4-a of Decree-Law No 107 of 12 July 2011, actually provided for an appropriation of EUR 10 million from 2011 funds and has recently been the subject of new legislation. In particular, for 5 million was updated on 2014 funds, thus fresh and accessible, and the planned DCCM is being defined; for 5 million more, compensation was proposed for Airgest with ENAC credits. In fact, therefore, these two measures would essentially give rise to compliance with the provisions of the article referred to. As regards the second aspect, it is clear that there may be extraordinary and urgent needs on the airport at the moment not predictable that would, in the case, be related to those national security that may impose on the Government the need to use the airport in question as well as any other national airport. Therefore, I would ask you to withdraw for these reasons, otherwise the opinion would be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u104	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators, up to the words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.1 and amendments 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 3.7, which is identical to Amendment 3.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Santangelo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.13, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.14 tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Calderoli, a favourable opinion was given conditional on the adoption of a rewording on the agenda G3.1. Do you accept it? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President, but I would ask that it be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u107	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to point out that I mistakenly voted against, while I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u108	The Presidency takes note of this and invites the Offices to take note of it. I ask Senator Santangelo if he intends to withdraw the agenda G3.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). No, Madam President, I maintain and insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on Senator Santangelo to vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G3.2. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I ask Senator De Cristofaro if he intends to withdraw the agenda G3.3. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). No, Madam President, I keep the agenda and insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.3 tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Cristofaro, do you insist on voting on the G3.4 agenda? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.4 presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator De Cristofaro, do you insist on voting on the G3.5 agenda? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.5 tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator De Cristofaro, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G3.6? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I accept the rewording and request the vote on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.6 (text 2), presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I ask Senator De Cristofaro if he intends to withdraw the agenda G3.7 (correct text). De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). No, Mr President, I keep it and insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.7 (correct text), presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Orellana, do you accept the rewording of the G3.8 agenda? Orellana (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I accept the rewording and ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.8 (text 2), presented by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u109	Madam President, be patient, but I would like to go back for a moment because this House has been deceived. In fact, Senator De Cristofaro insisted on voting on two identical agendas: the agenda for the G3.7 (correct text) was not approved, but it is identical to the agenda for the G3.5 agenda, on which the House voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u110	Actually, there are little variations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u111	Vattuone, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am, but the commitment to the device is identical. PRESIDENT. - The debate is What matters is what has been decided by the House: in any case, I repeat, they are slightly different. Vattuone, rapporteur. All right. Turning now to the opinions, I am opposed to all the amendments referred to in Article 4. With regard to the G4.1 agenda, the opinion is in favour of rewording the commitment mechanism and for this rewording we refer to the Government. I am in favour of the G4 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u112	Madam President, the rewording of the draft agenda item G4.1 is as follows: It shall inform the competent parliamentary committees of any technical documentation acquired at the time when the VBL Puma and the M109L light armored vehicles were transferred to the Republic of Djibouti, as well as the technical documentation which it would be intended to acquire, pursuant to point (a) of paragraph 3 of Article 4 of the decree under Title V. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u113	Mr. Undersecretary, it might be fine, but there's no time. In the original text, I foresee: within 15 days of the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree. I think it's a correct time frame, given the misunderstanding that has arisen. I ask you, kindly, if possible, to include the precise time frame.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u114	I believe that mutual esteem and trust should lead you to believe that the Government will give information as soon as possible and not vice versa, bearing in mind that, as you can also see from the parliamentary acts of the Joint Chamber and Senate Commissions, I have already determined the documents and numbers have already been given. So there's no problem answering that. Don't worry, we'll get back to you as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u115	Senator Santangelo, tell me whether or not you accept the reformulation, even with this deficiency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u116	Madam President, of course, the written period of time ignores mutual esteem. However, Mr Undersecretary, I am not very happy, but I welcome the rewording. I would ask, Madam President, that the agenda be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u117	Of course.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u120	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u121	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u124	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, allow me to suggest to Mr Lucidi that he withdraw amendment 4.5, since an agenda was adopted just now in connection with the technical documentation of the armored buildings donated to the Republic of Djibouti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u125	Senator Lucidi, do you accept the suggestion? LUCIDES (M5S). No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). I apologise for the mistake, but the 5th Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution had been rejected on Amendment 4.10, so I have to cancel the vote. D'ANNA (GAL). Wake up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'd beg the senators to show more courtesy. We're awake. Let us move on to amendment 4.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.1 (text 2), presented by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Divine Senator, the Government has said it is willing to accept the agenda G4.2; does it insist on voting? DIVINE (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u128	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I find the agenda G4.2 interesting, but if it were possible I would like a clarification from Senator Divina. Since the agenda, in my opinion intelligently, calls for an assessment of the possibility of destroying the means that would prove more expensive to return than to destroy on the spot, I would like to see whether this also includes arming and whether there is any control over the actual destruction of these materials.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u131	DIVINE (LN-Aut). I thank the Government for their willingness to accept the proposal. As for Senator Marton's request, the government should answer it. Since it is not possible to leave weapons around the world because they are theaters of war where opponents will not be defeated altogether, we should say that everything that must be returned to homeland (meaning old, used means, articles and weapons no longer reusable) whose cost for repatriation is not economically advantageous compared to material value, must be destroyed. The procedure will be established by the Government. It is clear that the operation must be entrusted to the military and not to other bodies which, at this point, would only increase costs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u134	Mr Rossi, State Secretary for Defence. It is precisely in the premise that armament material is excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u135	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment G4.2 tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views. I note that amendments 5.8 (which are not possible), 5.10, 5.0.100, 5.0.101, 5.0.102 and 5.0.103 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u136	I call on all the amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I am against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u137	What is your opinion on the agenda? Amendment 5.7 has been turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u138	Vattuone, rapporteur. Although turned into an agenda, I would like to call for withdrawal otherwise the opinion would be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u139	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u140	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). An invitation to withdraw was issued on the agenda: Senator Di Biagio, does he accept it? DI BIAGIO (PI). Yes, Madam President, I shall withdraw the agenda G5.7. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 5.9 has been withdrawn and transformed into an agenda, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u141	On the agenda, Mr G5.9, I am in favour of the following rewording: In the commitment to the Government after the words "to evaluate" insert the following : "the possibility to assume" and after the words "the appropriate initiatives of "to replace the word "to correct" with "to overcome."
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u142	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u143	The presenter accepts the rewording. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G5.9 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u144	I am against it all.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u145	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u146	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.1, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u147	The opinion is opposed to both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u148	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u149	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u152	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, sometimes the voting device at my station stops. I would like my vote against to be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u153	The Presidency takes note of this. I'm begging those in charge of the voting system to check Senator Caliendo's station. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u154	I call for the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them. As for the G8.1 agenda, I propose that it be reworded by committing the Government to assess whether it is appropriate to do so. Finally, the opinion was in favour of the G8.2 agenda, which has already been adopted in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u155	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u158	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u159	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 8.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator De Pietro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senator De Pietro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.4, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.5, tabled by Senator De Pietro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 8.6, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, up to the word'reduction'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 8.6 and amendment 8.7. are therefore excluded. Does Senator Mussini accept the proposed rewording of the G8.1 agenda put forward by the rapporteur? MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Yes, I do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Amati, do you insist on voting on the agenda G8.2? AMATI (PD). Yes, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.2 tabled by Senator Amati and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u160	I call for the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u161	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u164	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u165	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 9.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.3, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.5, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.1, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u166	I call for the withdrawal of all amendments to Article 10, otherwise the opinion is against it. A discussion has already taken place in the Commission on the G10.1 agenda, where it was agreed, in agreement with the presenters, to accept it as a recommendation, with the Government's commitment to address this issue quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u167	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. On the agenda G10.1 I repeat what I said yesterday: there will be the highest commitment of the Government to address this issue, in particular with in-senators elected abroad, in the coming days.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u168	Amendment 10.2 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.1, which is identical to Amendment 10.3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, identical to amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.4 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.5 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.6 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u171	Razzi (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to turn Amendment 10.7 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u172	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G10.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u173	The opinion on the G10.7 agenda was opposed, as it was already included in the recommendation adopted with reference to Senator Micheloni's G10.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u174	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u175	Senator Razzi, do you insist on voting on the agenda G10.7? Razzi (FI-PdL XVII). No, Madam President, I withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 10.8 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.9, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the G10.1 agenda, the Government gave its willingness to accept it as a recommendation. Senator Micheloni, do you insist on voting? MICHELONI (PD). Madam President, I agree, but I would like a vote to strengthen this recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u178	MARTON (M5S). In the Commission - if I remember correctly, Senator Micheloni - an amendment to the device was also accepted with regard to the date, with the addition of the words "within one year". Now I do not see these words in the text of the G10.1 agenda when we are discussing it. Are we voting on the Commission's version or this version? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall vote on the text as it stands, with the rewording. MARTON (M5S). Perhaps there is a mistake in the published text; that is why I asked for clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u181	MICHELONI (PD). Madam President, it has actually been mentioned in the Commission, but it is not that there has been a decision. I understand that and I thank Senator Marton, but in the context of this agenda, I believe that the problem is the reduction and not the lengthening of time. I therefore believe that the printed text is acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u182	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.1 as a recommendation, tabled by Senator Micheloni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda relating to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u183	I am opposed to amendment 11.1 and to the G11.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u184	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u185	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G11.1 agenda was accepted by the Government. Divine Senator, do you insist on voting? DIVINE (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G11.1, presented by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, we still have to vote on an amendment to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which had been skipped and on which there is the opposite opinion of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator De Pietro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I read the following letters from Senators Zanettin and Alberti Casellati: Rome, 24 September 2014 To the President of the Senate, Sen. Pietro Grasso. I, the undersigned Zanettin Pierantonio, Senator of the Republic, following my election by Parliament as a member of the Superior Council of the Magistrate and subsequent proclamation by the President of the same Parliament, find myself in the condition of incompatibility provided by the Constitution between the office of Senator and that of member of the aforementioned Council, I communicate my option for the Superior Council of the Magistracy. Thank you and cordially greeting. F.to Pierantonio Zanettin. [[Applause.]] Rome, 25 September 2014 To the President of the Senate Dr. Pietro Grasso I'm the undersigned, Avv. Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati, Senator of the Republic, following my election by Parliament in common session as a member of the Superior Council of the Magistrate and the subsequent proclamation by the President of the same Parliament, finding myself in the condition of incompatibility provided by the Constitution between the office of Senator and that of member of the aforementioned Council, I communicate to your Ladyship my option for the Superior Council of the Magistrate. The commitment and the sense of responsibility with which I am going to carry out my work in the Superior Council of the Magistrate are the same that have accompanied, from now on, every election in this House. For this reason, aware of the dedication and deep institutional sentiment that inspires the activity of all the Senators of the Republic, I leave this with sincere gratitude and, at the same time, with deep regret. I would like to offer you and the entire Senate my sincere thanks and best wishes for good work. With the most cordial greetings. F.to Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati. [[Applause.]] The Presidency supports this applause, the best wishes for good work to our colleagues who leave us, with particular affection to Senator Casellati, also as a woman elected to the MSC, who has so committedly and for many years carried out his mandate. Since these are cases of incompatibility within the meaning of the seventh paragraph of Article 104 of the Constitution, the Senate can only take note of them. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is hereby authorised to convene for the purpose of determining the successor senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u189	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I wanted to join in and address our solidarity and our praise to Senator Zanettin as a man. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u190	My greeting was also addressed to him, but with a certain partisanry that he could not deny me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u191	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u194	MARAN (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of my Group's motion for a resolution for the reasons I have outlined during the general debate to which I refer. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u197	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be as brief as my previous colleague, but I think it is appropriate to give proper attention to the issues. As I have pointed out in general debate, this measure deals with issues of great importance. Anticipating that, as a For Italy Group, we support and support the measures introduced. We are faced with a measure of which I share the regulatory profiles and provisions relating to the legal and economic aspects of our participation in international missions. Firstly, for the sense of gratitude and support to those women and men who are currently engaged in difficult and risky peace missions that are taking place throughout the world: in Kosovo, in the Balkans, in Eastern Europe, in Afghanistan, in Libya and in Lebanon. They are military to which the institutions must never fail their strong and determined support. We cannot miss, here, our support for the two rifles Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, who are facing the story that concerns them with great dignity and with respect for the institutions that honour them. An event that we hope will soon be resolved and on which we ask for the highest commitment of the Government. Returning to this decree, there are also more specific reasons of a political nature that encourage us to support the financing of international missions. This is also in the light of the commitments that come to our country from belonging to Europe and other international organizations, and which take on a further importance in the light of the European Semester of Italian Presidency, and it would be difficult - personally, I also find shortsighted and irresponsible - to imagine cuts in defence, especially in the context of missions, even in the complex scenario that conditions our country in recent years. This shortsightedness is all the more unjustifiable if we make a broader assessment that invests the international scenario, in this particular historical moment marked and marked by war outbreaks in different areas of the planet that are questioning the same international geopolitical structures. The NATO Summit and recent information by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence on international terrorism and missions have outlined a clear picture in this respect, highlighting, on the one hand, the increase in conflict situations and a reflowering of international terrorism, in which the religious connotation emerges dramatically. Compared to this, the tragic news of these days requires further reflection and a greater commitment to the protection of religious minorities, and of Christians in particular, the object, as we know, of a real action of ethnic cleansing in the Middle East. On another side, we have clear evidence, and I refer to the data provided recently by Minister Pinotti both in the September information and in a recent question time, of how important the contribution of the Italian presence in peacekeeping missions and cooperation in certainly complex scenarios of intervention, whose complexity is frequently the subject of ideological and political exploitations, of which I will never tire of pointing out the infertility, highlighting the fact that such exploitations degrade the value and the scope of our presence and the work of our military. Worked that - it is well to remember - has a concrete, objective and precise meaning. It is worth making a few examples of this by quoting the ISAF mission in Afghanistan, because it has been mentioned several times in this regard. In the field of reconstruction and development, Italy has contributed, through the ISAF mission, to the realization - and I quote the data provided by the Minister: - "1.288 projects for the population of the province of Herat, 48 clinicians, 2 hospitals of which one paediatric, a center of forensic medicine, 105 schools, 60 kilometers of water supply and 16 waste water plants, about 800 water wells, 3 bridges, 130 kilometers of roads, 17 public and government buildings, 34 infrastructures for safety and defence." And all this - it is only a small example - has been realized through the refinancing of the ISAF mission - the contested ISAF mission - in the last twelve years. This is cooperation. This is the real contribution that our country can make and can make. And if that's what the mission refinancing is for, I say it's money well spent. I do not discuss the possibility of making the necessary assessments, in my own premises, on the dynamics that accompany the missions, on the strategies to be adopted and on the objectives, as well as on the reasons for our presence. I myself have urged the Government, in the recent question time with Minister Pinotti, to make an in-depth and evaluation, in view of the imminent conclusion of the mission in Afghanistan, precisely because of the seriousness and the commitment made and also to identify strategic elements and indications on the other areas of international mission in which we will be engaged. But these assessments must be made, and must be done, away from sterile controversy, on the basis of a serious awareness of the challenges that the international scenario poses to us and also taking into account the results achieved in the missions. I take this opportunity to renew our support for the Government also in relation to the question of the F-35 because we can not bend - even here - to the banalizations now abused and to that pacifism operetta, that does not grasp the reality of the issues, but only knows how to demagogy the "Laqualunque". We need to maintain an efficient military instrument and to put our armed forces in a position to operate also because of the international framework that is emerging and the value, in terms of professionalism, seriousness, and also human contribution that our military are able to bring into international cooperation actions in very complex scenarios. A contribution that is part of the Italian model and builds the credibility of our country abroad. On this, the Government is showing an indisputable openness and proof of this is the indications of Minister Pinotti who has reiterated the attention of the Department of Defense on the need, several times highlighted, of a framework law in the matter of missions and on the definition of the White Paper that contributes to the redefinition, possibly, of the strategic objectives, as well as of the actions and the instruments, to be activated that can certainly be a place of confrontation on all these issues. Today we have to deal with increasingly severe crises. That undermines the stability of international geopolitical structures and undermines security also at national level. There are new challenges, and increasingly complex challenges. We are ready, as a majority force, to support the Italian Government in the difficult task of responding to these challenges, with responsibility for that role that our country deserves and wants to deserve. We are a Government of responsibility and have the responsibility to put our country in a position to operate and make courageous choices, in response to the circumstances that the international scenario imposes on us. That is also why we are voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senators Romano and Merloni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u198	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u200	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Great Autonomies and Freedoms will vote in favour of this measure. I have some difficulty explaining the reasons for my group's vote in favour, because I would personally be willing to vote against it. And this is not because I do not recognize the merits of the missions to which we have competed as a European country; in fact they have been foriers of stabilization of those areas, they have carried out work of protection of the civil populations and of obstacle to barbarism and the next coming Middle Ages that, from Afghanistan to Libya, has manifested itself when the Arab Spring has failed and when the cap of some dictatorial regimes, such as those of Saddam Hussein, Gaddafi, and Ben Ali in Tunisia, has been swept away. Evidently we are in a geographical area of the world within which the fideistic and religious component plays a destabilizing game. I say this without having any preconception towards Muslims, but we are faced with wars of religion, wars between ethnic groups and religious strains similar but different; we find ourselves very often having to put an end to the most barbaric and inhuman violence. We certainly failed both the mission of exporting democracy, as was said at the time of the war on Saddam Hussein, when we imagined that those peoples could be brought back, through the institution of democratic participation, to the establishment of regimes within which the institutions could resolve the social, economic and political crisis of those regions. But let's come to our day. We are going to repeat a decree that costs us about half a billion euros and that makes a pair with the more or less similar decree that we fired at the beginning of January, which amounts to 550 million. With this decree we do nothing but take more than EUR 1 billion and devote it largely to military activities. I don't think we can afford it. I would remind myself and the bystanders that we have approved measures in this House which allocated 34 million to food banks, so that Caritas and other organisations operating on national territory can provide basic food for the ever-largest number of Italians living in absolute poverty. And when the non-profit organizations, both the secular and the religious ones, came up with a request to raise that fund to EUR 100 million, we denied it. Today we are impoverishing not 60 million, but 600 million euros that are largely used for troops deployed in the various warring countries in military actions. As they have done in the general debate, Article 11 of the Constitution will not bother me, because, in my opinion, the circumstances do not apply: we do not offend, we do not take care, we do not threaten, in fact, the national sovereignty of anyone, but these are missions that serve as deterrents. The truth is that this expenditure stems from the ambition to deploy our armed forces within an international chessboard, which basically has to bring us a certain aplomb, a certain dimension and a certain consideration of the international political community. It is this presumption, this kind of nationalistic pride that animates us and forces us to keep our troops abroad with the economic burden I was talking about before. To read this decree, it is really to be amazed. While the €1 billion commitment is 90-93 per cent devoted to tactical and military scenarios, to complementary parts, which complement this mission and concern solidarity and humanitarian initiatives, figures such as €1.5 million, €800,000 or €2 million are destined. If we have to spend this money, then we reverse the expenditure indication and withdraw our troops, which are of no use, Mr. Undersecretary. You must impose yourself in a European context, as you mentioned earlier, which must have a single army in view, but should have unique shipping bodies under the aegis of the European Union. We cannot achieve this from a Europe that does like shrimp: we are in fact building a fiscal Europe and a balanced budget, but we are suffering, like Nation, a series of quotas and constraints that starve our people. We cannot put together 50 planes, 10,000 people and 50 armored people to send, under the aegis of the United Nations, where we must commit ourselves, like the other international powers, to make our contribution, when we are with the patches to the ass (sorry the term, which is greedy, but it well renders, in other circumstances, the state of poverty in which the economic crisis has plunged Italy). So we don't give 60 million euros to the food banks and allow ourselves the luxury of breaking the kidneys to Afghanistan, Tunisia or Libya. Let us be serious: I am also opposed to mode pacifism, so let us withdraw these troops and use part of that money for our internal needs, while with what remains we are going to finance international cooperation. It has been added, for merely didascalic fact, that our troops should also be interested in helping the populations for the emergency of the Ebola virus. Instead of doing this nonsense, we provide our cops and the points where these disinherits of mobile laboratories and medical and biological structures can immunize the Italian people and this deadly epidemic from this indiscriminate flow. [[Applause from the LAG, LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u201	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u203	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, thank you and also thank the Government, because honestly, Mrs. Minister and Mr. Undersecretary, we are embarrassed: it had never happened that an opposition force, presenting not a few documents and agendas of the day, saw them all approved: the norm and the custom, are exactly the opposite. Therefore, given this premise, we must say and reiterate what we continue to support, namely that the North League is opposed to the pulverization of resources. We would like to concentrate the efforts and resources we have available for defence, aiming them well where Italy has major or strategic interests: ergo, our suggestion is not to disperse more resources. Secondly, we can no longer do the first in the class, when perhaps we are not even among the repeaters, in the sense that we cannot have the presumption of changing the world with four change. International cooperation will probably be more thought of by Farnesina than by the Department of Defense, through the NLUS, the various associations and the Red Cross. The measure before us is said to improve the living conditions of the populations and refugees in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Mali, Myanmar, Pakistan, Central African Republic, Syria, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, Yemen and other countries, but doing all this with those four lire that are settled is like thinking of making a wedding with dried figs. We have already talked about Libya in the general debate: too many Italian interests are present in the Mediterranean, in front of us, such as the energy supply, of which Italy cannot do without, and then there is the increasingly dramatic aspect of the arrival of illegal immigrants. We have there our police forces who must help theirs, our armed forces who must train their army, our Finance Guard, which helps their coast guard to use the naval units and patrol boats that we have given free of charge. Since the start of the last operation, combined with "Mare nostrum-disastrum" it seems that the system does not work so well. We therefore ask for more attention: if the lookouts are there, if we have equipped and instructed their coastguard to use them, we do not understand why the landings, instead of slowing down and being controlled, increase to an extent that Italy can no longer make it, so that we support an invasion, compared to which we are no longer able to tolerate even a further unity. With regard to another aspect of the measure, I would like to point out that Article 9 (5) - which is good to read - leaves too much room for interpretation. In fact, it provides that the expenditure of almost 9 million euros for interventions aimed at the protection of Italian citizens and interests abroad is authorised. I repeat this sentence, because the words are important: "destined to the protection of Italian citizens and interests abroad." We would not want the possibility of paying ransoms to be hidden behind these words. We are under attack by a world of desperate people, terrorists, who are concerned and who have put in check two official national armies, the Syrian one and the Iraqi one, who continue to operate in a barbaric way, through killings, so we no longer even have arguments and words to define their brutality. If we give in to these ransom claims in exchange for hostages - in those areas it is in fact easy to find Westerners: so far it has never happened to an Italian, but yesterday for example it happened to a Frenchman - and if we accept the negotiation with terrorists, it would probably be over and would thus open an endless channel of self-support. We would therefore not so much like to see the wording that recalls the aim of protecting Italian interests disappear, but that in that voice it was better specified that Italy will never pay ransom to terrorists. Another aspect that we feel we should stress in our explanation of vote is the exhortation to start using strong ways as well. The international community has left us alone in a negotiation with India, as if Atalanta and Ocean shield operations were an exclusively Italian issue. We have provided military personnel to protect a major international operation against piracy, but only and exclusively our military, our two maroons, are paying the price of this abandonment, not so much of Italy, which has managed and did what it could, but of the international community, which has completely disinterested itself. You will be able to answer me, Minister, which is not your responsibility, even if things are getting more and more involved now. We need to check the illegals with the Army and the police. Once they are in our country the problem is probably the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, and we have heard from the Viminale make an obscene proposal: adopted a clandestine and the State will give 900 euros per month. If there is solidarity in this country - and solidarity is certainly a good thing - welcome those you believe. The State cannot guarantee a family an adequate income, if we think that in an Italian-style family, with four members (a husband, a wife, two children), who earns 1,000-1,200 euros per month, after paying the rent, bills and expenses, making calculations, probably remain less than 200 euros per month for each child. So what do we do? Do we give that family a foster child at 900 euros a month? We remain in solidarity: if the preventive state that a child to a family costs 200 euros a month, you could think - playing with provocations - that with a gesture of solidarity 100 euros you put them there the family that decides to adopt a clandestine, and maybe the other 100 could give it also the State. Mine is a provocation en passant, a thought aloud: we have not yet thought carefully, but we do not make solidarity a business. As I said - and I shall conclude - we are satisfied and embarrassed that the Government has accepted everyone on our agendas, which leads us, at this point, to have a more temperate position than the Group had in the House, which voted against the measure. We say here, however, that with all these adjustments the measure stands better. Therefore, by announcing that we will abstain from voting, I would like to return to the last agenda we voted on, the G11.1. We've done two calculations: to cover the operation we need 450 million. We have checked that for 200 million we will draw on the debt: with new financial instruments we will do some debt; 14 million will be recovered from the UN reimbursements - I am referring to the fact that we are anticipating resources for the reception of refugees and someone will have to compensate us - but it is clear that for the total coverage there are 235 million, which we know will be recovered from the reprogramming of the defence budget. But it's a bit of a lame system: where are we going to cut? About the exercise? On the wages of our military? On weapons? From this point of view it is an endless story: are we modernizing our Army or not? Do we send our military to fight in underwear or do we equip them with minimum equipment and adequate means not to expose them to excessive risks? If there is conviction - our vehicles are more than thirty-fifty years old and fly under limit conditions - we must have the courage to tell the Italian community that there is a need to buy aircraft, which certainly cost, because it no longer gives anyone anything, but they are necessary. Is it unpopular at this time when the country is in trouble? Certainly, but we have to say it; otherwise we have a referendum to say that we no longer need the Army and we recover everything so substantially, according to what is a bit the Swiss model. As I said, however, if there is a convention, it also takes courage. We would not want the 235 million that are missing now to be recovered by saving more on the modernization that is indispensable today, if we are to say that we have an army that is up to the role. As I explained to Undersecretary Rossi earlier, it is likely that we will still have to make sacrifices in order to protect the interest, not so much Italian, but of the whole Western community, since - who has not yet noticed it perhaps is a wretched one - but we are under attack. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm really done. Our way of life, our culture and our religion are under attack. Therefore, not only the American Army, flanked by some other sporadic army, but probably we too should go and fight those four cutthroats, which today are causing disasters in those territories, which yesterday did them in Algeria, against a European, a French, but to which we could all be exposed tomorrow. This is the need, perhaps primary, of our country and the armed forces of our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u204	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u206	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would just like to say that we voted against and refer back to the broad arguments put forward by Senator De Cristofaro in his speech. Let me add a small note: we hope that having forgotten, in an omnibus decree, that united all Italian participations to international missions and not only, the mission Minurso was just a simple forgetfulness. An agenda has been adopted by this House. We hope that this commitment will be serious. We have been very concerned about the recent words of a Minister, who said that an agenda is not denied to anyone, because we are talking about human rights and the freedom of a people. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u209	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, I am speaking only to announce the vote in favour of the New Right Centre senators' measure. [[Senator Caliendo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u212	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement will vote against this bill. I will not go into the substance of the measure, which contains positive parts and many negative parts. I note, however, the uselessness of this Senate and Parliament in general. I'll explain. The decree-law was issued on August 1st; after there was all the month of August of Parliament's arrest; then there was the passage to the House; now the provision arrives at the Senate, and in ten days it must be decided. I believe that this is no longer acceptable. Moreover, if I recall correctly, the Constitutional Court, in recent years, has expressly prohibited us from this procedure, it has told us several times to limit the urgent decree. This urgent measure has nothing. He has absolutely nothing. Among other things, I am surprised that the President of the Republic could only countersign the decree-law, seeing the characteristic of heterogeneity of the provision: there was only need to include in the title also the repair of motorbikes and then we were in place. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Nor is the reference to the sense of responsibility, which I acknowledge to Senator Micheloni, which leads him to vote on such a measure, acceptable anymore. It is, in fact, a year and a half that I hear that Parliament must become sovereign. But if it is to become sovereign, it is also time for it to start rebelling and voting against these things. We continue to say and say in the Commission and in this House that it is no longer acceptable to do so. It is no longer acceptable to come to the Commission and to have to ask the President of the Commission whether the measure can be amended or not. The premise becomes immediately: can something be done or nothing can be done? But if nothing can be done, what are we doing here? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We're making fun of each other and we're making fun of each other. I come to the Commission and the answer is that the measure cannot be touched: is it acceptable? Do you accept this? Do you like working like this? Senator Santangelo has already expressed this concept before, with a very heartfelt call. I don't think I'm useless in here, as I don't think you are, but I find it unacceptable to put party discipline on top of everything. It seems to me that you have - some of you, at least, have - a rather strange hierarchy of sources of law: party discipline, constitution, ordinary law. I can't believe this. We could remove the Comites from this provision, which had nothing to do with it. I ask the Minister why this article on the Comites has been included. Who imposed it? Why did you put it in? It is perhaps someone who has an interest in entering a subject that has nothing to do with missions: can you tell me who these groups are? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And should we vote in favour of such a thing? Among the few good points, put in a series of disastrous points that, voted all in one shot, pass in bulk. I really believe that this way of acting is now unbearable. We have already said that the measure was not urgent, it did not even have the characteristic of extraordinaryness, because the Italian contingent has been in Afghanistan for ten years. It is therefore absolutely urgent, and the Government has taken note of this, to adopt a framework law. At least President Monti had launched an annual decree on these issues, and now we are proceeding six months in six months. Thank you, Undersecretary Rossi, for also clarifying the fact that the military, even if the decree was submitted late, have not been discovered of legal protection. However, I would like to ask you a question: since Article 7 (2) of the Decree-Law provided for the possibility for the requesting administrations to spend 50% of the appropriations in the first ten days from the date of entry into force of the Decree, if the decree was not converted and the administrations had already requested and had spent this money, what would happen? It has actually given up white paper to spend resources that have not yet been allocated: does it seem normal to you? Does it seem normal to spend EUR 120 million in a year on transport insurance without knowing in advance how this money would be spent? Mr Secretary, you have also told me in the Commission that it is reasonable, that we must also trust and that it is not always appropriate to raise the question of whether everyone is criminal, but there is a 20-year history, and it is not that money has always been well spent. Why then should we trust and why should we not know in advance how you intend to spend these resources? In my view, it would be legitimate for Parliament to expect to give an opinion on what is clear: I think it is our duty to give an opinion on what is clear. As I have already said, my group will vote strongly against the conversion of this decree. I hope that the debate on the framework law on this matter will begin as soon as possible and that the issue of missions will no longer be dealt with by decree, and above all in these terms. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u213	Colleagues, there are still some speeches for an explanation of vote. As it is the end of the afternoon sitting scheduled for 2 p.m. and as it is already planned for today at 4 p.m. a session of inspection union, I believe that today we will not be able to conclude the examination of the measure. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u216	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what would be the situation of certain countries such as Afghanistan, Iraq, in the whole Maghreb area that has been going through since the Arab Spring and in particular Libya if, in addition to military interventions, there had been adequate and coordinated policies of international cooperation and support for the development of the democracies and economies of these countries? If, in addition to drones, bombings, soldiers, agreements with various armed groups and dictators, it was thought to build secular schools, hospitals, development support projects (which were - for charity - but to a minimum and not coordinated), but above all with a long-term strategic vision? That is what we have to ask ourselves, that is what American President Obama also said yesterday in his speech to the United Nations: in addition to the call to arms to fight ISIS, he realized that yet another military intervention without social policies and cooperation aimed at peacekeeping, will be yet another failure. In his long speech, he has repeatedly returned to the need to help the young people of these troubled countries, for whom, among other things, the West has serious responsibilities. Who sows wind, reaps storm. These are serious mistakes, which we Italians have also procrastinated, with blindness and a lack of vision and above all a lack of planning, in particular for areas strategically vital for our country like Libya. In fact, I would say that Libya is the priority and I am sure that Deputy Minister Pistelli agrees with us. We recalled this in this House in July when, during the elections in Libya, the activist and lawyer Salwa Bugaighis, a central figure of the Libyan democratization process, was killed, in fact, now falls under the conditions we know well. I say these things because I want to overcome the frustration of this House in not being able to dictate to the Government adequate foreign policy lines, as we have seen this morning with yet another scandalous extension for the urgent decree of missions abroad, but above all because the problems of these countries are also ours and are much closer to the Italian citizens than everyone thinks. And one who lives in a neighborhood, in Turin, with 40% immigration from all over the world and who touches with hand the extreme difficulty of facing multi-ethnic integration, and above all to face it completely alone! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u219	PHASE (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out to you the urgency of the question, the 3-01217, which I have tabled in recent days on the situation of a large number of Afghan immigrants in the North-East. The situation involves in particular the realities of Gorizia and Gradisca, but also Udine. Recently, the first citizens of the three localities have called for an urgent summit with their prefects and also with parliamentarians, asking us for an interest in the dramatic situation. About 75 Afghans are now housed in a tent city and are subject to bad weather and weather. This is an urgent situation so that if the question were to be scheduled in a short time it would make sense that it would otherwise lose. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fasiolo, it will be the Presidency's responsibility to urge the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u222	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I should like to speak briefly because once again a public assembly was convened on Monday 22 September to reaffirm the detention of the institutions and civil societies at the mega gas pipeline Adriatic network and at the Snam compression station. The highest regional offices of Abruzzo, Marche and Umbria were present and the social forces and all the anti-gas pipeline committees took part in the initiative, to clearly reaffirm the will of the elected institutions to defend the inalienable rights of the territories involved. Madam President, this meeting once again represented a moment of maximum unity between the institutions and citizens, a general mobilization to defend the life and future of our territories. For this reason, today I find myself once again having to urge the conduct of an interrogation, No. 57, published on July 30, 2013, therefore for a year. This interrogation has also been transformed into a question to be carried out in the Commission in order to speed up its handling. I was pleased to note that the Conference of Services scheduled to take place in Rome on 7 August following my speech in the Chamber on 21 July 2014 was held; a Conference of Services which would not have had the technical table before. A technical table with all stakeholders is now to be set up again. I think it is desirable that local experts should also be called to the table, so that they can explain the reasons for their rejection. But, above all, I hope that an early response will be given to the oral question in the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u223	I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree no. 533, as well as the opinion of the Council for the Rules expressed at its meeting of 7 June 2006, the allocation of seats made vacant in the Veneto Region following the resignation of Senator Pierantonio Zanettin and Senator Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidates who immediately follow the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senators belonged are respectively Bartolomeo Amidei and Stefano Bertacco. I acknowledge the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of this communication and proclaim Senators Bartolomeo Amidei and Stefano Bertacco. I would warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints to be lodged will begin today with regard to the new proclamations. I wish the new senators every success.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-318.ana.u224	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.03 p.m.
