ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00739, on the preservation of the artistic heritage of the Iblean territory. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u4	Mr President, a number of considerations must be given to the senator and co-signatory senators before they proceed to the answer to the question about a territory which, as pointed out in the same parliamentary question, presents a significant cultural and landscape interest. In fact, it must be reiterated that the state competences in the matter of cultural assets located in the territory of the Sicilian Region are exercised by the Region itself and in particular by the Department of Cultural Heritage of the Sicilian identity, pursuant to the decree of the President of the Republic n. 637 of 1975. The Department is responsible for the application of the provisions of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape. The Ministry that I represent here, in the light of the provision that I recalled, is therefore not competent to exercise the activities of protection of the cultural heritage within the territory of the Sicilian Region. I refer, however, however, here, for a necessary act of institutional courtesy towards the Senate and interrogators, the information elements that have been provided to us in this regard by the competent Sicilian Councillor and, as far as it is competent, by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, apologizing in advance for the inevitable length of the response. The landscape plan of the fields 15, 16 and 17, falling in the Province of Ragusa, adopted with resolution of 10 August 2010, has been drawn up in compliance with the provisions of Article 143 of the code of cultural goods and landscape, in order to ensure specific protection to the landscape and environmental values of the territory, first, through the analysis and identification of the natural and aesthetic historical resources and their interrelations according to defined fields in relation to the typology, relevance and integrity of the landscape values; second, through prescriptions and guidelines for the protection, recovery, redevelopment and enhancement of the same landscape values. Finally, through the identification of urban and building development lines compatible with the different recognised value levels. In implementation of the guidelines of the regional landscape territorial plan, already approved on 21 May 1999 and of the act of direction of the regional council for cultural and environmental goods and for public education, adopted on 8 May 2002, the landscape plan of areas 15, 16 and 17, articulated according to the territorial areas identified by the same guidelines, pursues general objectives of ecological stabilisation of the environmental context, protection of soil and bio-diversity, with particular attention to the situations of risk and criticality, of valorization of the identity and peculiarity of the landscape of the areas, both in its unitary as well as in its various specific configurations and finally the improvement of the social usability of the environmental heritage, both for the current and for the future generations. Moreover, in implementation of Article 135 of the Code, the landscape plan defines for each local area specific requirements and forecasts both for the maintenance of the characteristics, the constituent elements and the morphologies of the goods subject to protection, and for the identification of the lines of urban and building development compatible with the different levels of value recognized and with the principle of the least consumption of the territory, and in any case such as not to diminish the landscape value of each area, with particular attention to the safeguarding of the sites included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. In particular, the area covered by the question falls within the south-eastern part of the Region, on which they have been insisting, for some time now, plants for the exploitation of oil deposits. In the recalled area the landscape plan in adoption pursues the following objectives of landscape quality: redevelopment of the natural landscape of the Irminio river and its tributaries through interventions of renaturalization of the artificialized traits; removal of the environmental detractors that determine impact from pollution or accumulation, along the banks, of materials resulting from the activity of cavation; protection, redevelopment and reconstruction of the elements of naturalistic and ecosystem importance, in order to the constitution of the river ecological corridors, fundamental elements of the ecological net; improvement of the usability of the mouth and the sea through the realization of public accesses, green areas and equipment realized with temporary removable works (walks, ladders, shelters and observers for the avifauna); realization of a coastal dunal park with a cycle path that connects to the Cycle of the sun. The requirements for the areas identified pursuant to Article 134 of Legislative Decree No 42 of 2004 and concerning the areas covered by the question are detailed and provide for three different levels of protection. In the area referred to as ""9a." Built coastal landscape, archaeological areas Mangiabove, Heritage, Maulli, Grotto of the water, there is a level of protection 1 that provides for landscape recovery, urban and environmental redevelopment of the expansion areas through interventions of rationalization of the spaces with the necessary insertion of green areas, with particular attention to the use of traditional techniques and materials of the coverings of the architectural curtains, measures of landscape improvement and enhancement of the ecological network through the forecast of perimeter bands of tall trees belonging to the autochthonous and/or historicized vegetation and, for the archaeological areas, the improvement of public use and protection according to the provisions of the specific legislation and the prescriptions and limitations of the respective decrees of constraint. In the area referred to as ""9b." Natural and agricultural landscape in closed fields of the low course of the river Irminio and Pizzillo. Archaeological areas included in the list, a level of protection 2 is provided to ensure the protection and enhancement of the agricultural structuring system of the Iblei mountains as the main element of the landscape and cultural identity and protection of the ecosystem; that it maintains the elements of natural vegetation present or close to the cultivated or wooded areas able to constitute habitats of interest for the purposes of biodiversity and that any new residential buildings intended for the conduction of the agricultural fund are low density and so as not to affect and alter the agro-pastoral landscape and the landscape rule of the places, identified in the optical-space perception of the fields closed by the dry stone walls. In these areas, therefore, it is not allowed to carry out activities that involve possible variations to municipal urban planning tools, including the construction of production settlements in derogation from regional regulations, to create trellis, telecommunications antennas, plants for the production of energy also from renewable sources excluding those intended for self-consumption and exchange on site architecturally integrated in existing buildings and to open new quarries. In the area referred to as ""9f." Landscape of the forest maquis reserve of the mouth of the Irminio river, SIC area of the mouth of the Irminio. Archaeological areas included in the list are provided for a level of protection 3 that ensures hydrological and biological emergencies; that promotes the formation of stable plant ecosystems in balance with the conditions of the places, for the purposes of hydrogeological protection, maintenance or constitution of habitats in an integrated perspective of consolidation of ecological and protective functions. In these areas, infrastructure and networks are not allowed; to create towers, telecommunications antennas, power plants also from renewable sources, excluding those destined for self-consumption and exchange on site architecturally integrated or semintegrated and to realize new constructions and the opening of roads and tracks, with the exception of those necessary for the forest body for the better management of the wooded complexes. It is therefore clear from the combined reading of the plan legislation that the mining activities that are the subject of the question would not be allowed in areas with a level of protection 2 and 3, while in areas affected by the level of protection 1, any new installations for the exploitation of oil deposits will have to be provided with the compatibility landscape released by the competent superintendence. The Sicily Region also specifies that the administrative process of elaboration of a landscape plan includes several moments aimed at the adoption phase and the final one of approval, as provided for by Article 143 of the code of cultural assets and implemented in the Sicilian Region, with the modalities of article 158. The current phase, following the decree of the Councillor for Cultural Heritage and the Sicilian identity of 10 August 2010 of adoption of the proposal for a landscape plan of the Province of Ragusa, represents an intermediate phase (before the definitive approval) during which it is possible to produce, by the interested parties, any observations that will be submitted to the evaluation of the regional administration, after having received the opinion of the special commission of the Regional Observatory for the quality of the landscape. It should be reiterated that the landscape plan is over-ordained to any spatial planning tool as correctly recalled by the interrogating senators and as confirmed by the content of Article 145 of the Code, whose object is the coordination of landscape planning with other spatial planning tools. Regarding the research activities and cultivations of hydrocarbons at sea, the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has specified that the technical investigation concerning the development of the field Vega, 20 kilometers far from the coast of Ragusa, has concluded with a decree of authorization with prescriptions, while the procedure of VIA for the application of perforation of an exploratory well called Vesta off the Provinces of Syracuse and Ragusa, at a distance of 45,9 kilometers from the coast, has not yet concluded and the technical commission of verification of the environmental impact VIA-VAS is still carrying out the technical investigation. I conclude with a few brief comments on the concerns expressed for the Sicilian UNESCO sites, and in particular for the Val di Noto, to which the Municipality of Scicli refers. In this regard I would like to point out that the perimeter of the UNESCO site "Le città tardobarocche della Val di Noto" covers only a part of the historical centers of the Municipalities of Noto, Caltagirone, Ragusa, Catania, Scicli, Militello, Modica, Palazzolo Acreide, and, in some of these cases, concerns individual monuments, as the candidacy is linked in particular to the values of the late Sicilian Baroque. The same protection zone, called buffer zones, is very limited in extension and only rarely reaches the perimeter of urban centers. Therefore, on the basis of the elements identified in the question, it can be excluded that the reported intervention could directly affect the UNESCO site of Val di Noto, as well outside the perimeter of the site. Nevertheless, it stresses the importance of carrying out on-time checks on any visual impact that any installations may bring to the assets listed in the UNESCO list. The visual impact of new works, in fact, is one of the most widespread elements of prejudice to the exceptional world value of the goods included in the world heritage, precisely because it is an indirect effect on the cultural good. We take the opportunity to remember the importance of the Management Plan drawn up by the site at the time of registration. The Management Plan is a tool aimed at the correct protection and enhancement of the written good, and therefore it is stressed the need to monitor its implementation on time, and to update it where some aspects of conservation and protection have been neglected or underestimated in the first draft of the text. Finally, I conclude by pointing out that this Ministry, as a national focal point of the Convention on the Protection of UNESCO World Heritage, is fully willing to assist the local authorities in this task, in order to ensure the best management of UNESCO sites.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u5	I inform the House that a delegation from the General Affairs Group of the Council of the European Union is attending our work. On behalf of the House, alas not very large given the peculiarity of the sitting, I would like to say a greeting from the Presidency and the Members present. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u8	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for what she said. I am well aware that the structure of our Sicilian Region, being a special status, has an exclusive peculiarity for what concerns this aspect. However, together with my colleagues, I wanted to stress the great concern that affects our communities, and my own in particular, that of Scicli, because the research is part of a very vast range, touching points that concern the coast, but that are close to the city, and therefore for one part it interests the environment, competence of the Ministry that you so authoritatively represent. Madam Undersecretary, thank you for your willingness and I feel partially satisfied with what you have said, but the concern remains because of what concerns the environment, as you have pointed out. We, for at least thirty years and perhaps even more, have a territory that has been widely used for the production of hydrocarbons, with many consequences that I am not here to tell and that we know a little 'all. Yet this generous territory has given us Montalbano, a product that has helped us to make known this province a little isolated from our Sicily from all points of view (structural, basically), but now so loved also by the general public. It is very difficult to continue to have such an important showcase in a territory that, however, as you said just now, knows and appreciates very much, and then to think that, where children go to play or where tourists arrive more and more, there may be more and more invasive research. The concern is for our environment and our aquifers, despite the reassurances of the companies, and for a zootechnic that is a brilliant and important productive sector for our economy. Therefore, I very much welcome your willingness to be present for the local administration because, as you said, when a community (whether it is a piece of city, a palace, a street, an entire community, even if small) is recognized as a patrimony of humanity, you do not have it forever, and therefore it must be maintained. So, we need to strengthen this image, and the continuous search for oil around there wouldn't help us do that. I don't know if I can carry on with my thinking. We try to promote the precious territory that we have inherited and that we have a duty to maintain, guard and improve, hoping to succeed. But continuous drilling doesn't help us. I understand that hydrocarbons are also needed, but we cannot insist on a territory that has continued to give for at least 30 years. From the point of view of environmental concerns, you spoke before about biodiversity. Well, there are truly extraordinary species there, which are recognised and are part of the European Union's red list and which are particularly present there. We would risk changing a habitat both land and sea (because the same applies to the marine habitat). The concern is strong and if, on the one hand, I understand that Sicily has a particular regime and, therefore, from a national point of view, little can be done, from an environmental point of view will certainly have an impact. If you have read the question carefully, you will have already seen that it was first addressed to the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea and then, of course, to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities. We had sent it first to the Minister of the Environment and then, to follow, to that of cultural assets and activities to involve it. I therefore thank you for your presence. We will continue to talk about this because this is a problem that deserves deep attention. We have a great responsibility in maintaining a patrimony that is not of the Scicli community but, if only with one side, it has been recognized as being a patrimony of the whole of humanity. It is therefore our duty to safeguard and maintain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u9	Following is the question 3-00534 on the conversion of the Eridania/Powercrop sugar factory to Russi (Ravenna). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question I am about to answer is intended to know what initiatives the Government intends to take with regard to the authorization procedure for the Eridania/Powercrop Biomass plant in Russi, in the Province of Ravenna, in relation to Ministerial Decree 2 March 2010. However, financial law n. 296 of 2006, in particular Article 1, paragraph 382-f, provided that, by decree of the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies in agreement with the Minister of Economic Development, the arrangements should be established whereby operators in the production and distribution chain of biomass and biogas derived from agricultural, livestock and forestry products, including by-products, are required to ensure traceability and traceability of the supply chain, in order to access the incentives referred to in paragraphs 382 to 382-d, as amended by Law n. 99 of 23 July 2009. And indeed, with the subsequent financial law 24 December 2007, n. 244, and in particular Article 2, paragraphs 143 to 154, the mechanisms by which the production of electricity is encouraged, through plants powered by renewable energy sources, entered into operation after 31 December 2007, following new construction, renovation or upgrading, have been established in detail. In order to allow and promote the agro-energy supply chain, the legislation cited by the interrogators has been prepared, which contains the conditions for implementation linked to the ex novo affirmation of a national supply chain of energy crops. In particular, the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies issued the Ministerial Decree of 2 March 2010 implementing the Law of 27 December 2006, n. 296 The aforementioned decree refers to the so-called short chain, that is to say to the raw material produced within the radius of 70 kilometers or within the framework of agreements of supply chain or framework contracts, as regulated in the legislative decree 27 May 2005, n. 102. Specifically, this legislative decree contains provisions on regulation of agri-food markets and regulates, in particular, the supply chain arrangements and framework contracts used for the conclusion of cultivation contracts and with a view, inter alia, to the production, processing, marketing and distribution of agricultural biomass and biofuels of agricultural origin. I would also point out that in order to provide further useful regulatory tools in order to facilitate the affirmation and growth of agro-energy supply chains, thus favouring a balanced development of renewable energies and, at the same time, a correct use of agricultural land, further modalities have been prepared for the conclusion of framework contracts in the absence of a supply chain agreement, pursuant to Article 10, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 102 of 27 May 2005. In particular, in order to regulate this aspect, Ministerial Decree No 102 of 12 May 2010 has been issued, "Extension to individual companies of the agro-energy transformation of the possibility to conclude framework contracts, which regulates the modalities of application of Legislative Decree No 102 of 27 May 2005, which provides that for the supply chain of the agro-energy sector, with particular reference to the production of electricity from biomass and biogas, in the absence of supply chain agreements, can conclude framework contracts also the individual or associated companies of the agro-energy transformation chain, provided that they guarantee the traceability of the raw material used, and respect at least one of the following conditions: first, that the supply of agricultural and agro-forest biomass comes from at least three regions; secondly, that the agro-energy transformation project has been declared of national interest by the interministerial committee referred to in Article 2 (1) of Law No 81 of 11 March 2006. With regard to the biomass plant proposed by Eridania-Powercrop near Russi, in the Province of Ravenna, a brief excursus of the regulatory measures implemented in this regard is given below. Specifically, in order to ensure the conversion of the area cultivated with sugar beet following the Community reform of the sugar sector, on 8 November 2007 the production conversion agreement was signed at this Ministry pursuant to Article 2 (2) (a) of Law No 81 of 2006, in which it was foreseen that this conversion project will focus on multi-annual wood-cellulosic crops within a radius of 70 kilometres and/or under supply chain agreements in order to access the incentive mechanisms ex lege 27 December 2006, n. 296, previously mentioned. I would also point out that following the issuance of the Ministerial Decree of 12 May 2010 cited above between SECI Spa, Coldiretti and Consorzi agrari d'Italia a framework agreement has been concluded in which a collaboration regime is established for the establishment of an Italian agro-energy supply chain and in which it is stated that the contractors undertake to respect what is contained in the aforementioned Ministerial Decree of 2 March 2010 on the traceability of biomass to be allocated to the production of electricity. In the above-mentioned framework contract, approved by the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, it is specifically established that the framework contract for the production of agricultural biomass intended for the transformation into electricity for installations of installed power greater than 1 megawatt signed between the three entities complies with the current national and Community legislation and, in particular, complies with the Ministerial Decree of 2 March 2010 on the traceability of biomass. On the merits of the question raised, I stress the commitment of this administration in order to implement the sustainable use of renewable sources in general and, for the issues that concern this Ministry, of biomass for energy use because through agroenergy it is possible to contribute to the valorization of the food supply chains present on the territory integrating the income of primary producers and, in many cases, also contributing to solving problems of environmental nature. It reiterates the strong commitment of this Ministry to promote the sustainable development of renewable energy sources in agriculture respecting the traditional vocations of the territory. I would point out, among other things, that the plan of productive conversion of the sugar industry of 8 November 2007 and the Ministerial Decree of 12 May 2010 that governs the modalities of application of Legislative Decree No 102 of 27 May 2010 are not in contrast as the objectives pursued are different. Finally, I represent, for the profiles of relevance, the willingness of this Ministry to collaborate with the local administrations in order to put in place the appropriate solutions in relation to the problems that could arise in the future, without prejudice to the national policies of support to the food supply chains and taking into account the priority aims of agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u13	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Olivero for his articulate and, in some respects, perhaps superfluous response, given that my staff had already made the legislative excursus that the Deputy Minister kindly wanted to repeat here in this House. I have the impression that this excursus actually celes the lack of an answer. Reconnecting with the last things you said, Mr Deputy Minister, about this power station, first of all the Ministerial Decree of 2010 provides for a national interest. In the question it was pointed out that, in the view of the interrogators and the committees that have dealt with the matter in the last eight years, the national interest is not to be seen because - as I recall - this plant should produce about 10,000 gigawatts in response to today's needs of 3,000 gigawatts. It would therefore remain 7,000 gigawatts that would be destined for export. It therefore seems to us too broad a project in relation to the needs of the territory. I would also point out that such a large project would provide for the occupation of an area of 9,000 hectares, equivalent to a square whose side would measure 9 kilometers, and that at 140 meters from the area where the power station should rise stands the Palazzo San Giacomo, a jewel of our artistic heritage that since 1975 (the year of its acquisition) has not seen a project of destination. To want to think badly one would almost say that lately nothing has been done just to arrive at a natural collapse of the building and to ensure that one of the problems related to the rise of this plant, that is the indirect landscape constraints that this palace would enjoy, would of course decay. Apart from the possible damage from a cultural point of view, since recovering this building could recover an area of cultural promotion but also of tourist attraction, there is also the talk of agricultural productions. In fact, you rightly say that the possible creation, if not strengthening or remaking of these plants, must also take into account the respect of the traditional vocation of the territory. Well, this is a territory where there are high-value agricultural products, not just wine. Nectarines and other peaches are also produced. There are points of trade such as Conad or processing industries such as Conserve Italia, which within their specifications oblige farmers to communicate any changes in the environmental structure, so that products from these chains and from these distribution points are subject to controls and if toxic and polluting elements were present in certain foods there would be economic damage. Therefore, it seems to me that there is also a failure to respect the traditional vocation of the territory, as well as the economic interests of the farmers in the area. Therefore, the integration of the income of local producers in this case I do not see it. This place, I do not see the national interest; I do not see the protection of the economic interests of farmers; I do not see the protection of a piece of our artistic heritage, which could be recovered and valued and, given that today it is so much like talking about tourism as a resource, it could become a pole of attraction. Even there could therefore be an additional economic advantage and revival, the so-called flywheel (term that likes so much) for the territory. Therefore, I am not too satisfied with the answer; on the contrary, I would ask you to take this matter very seriously because the Committees of Citizens have been fighting for eight years and I urge you to re-evaluate the criteria under which this power station has been given the national interest to see if something should be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u14	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u15	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-306.ana.u16	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 9 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.39 p.m.
