ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 14.48 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u3	The next item is: Information of the Minister of the Interior on the events that occurred at the demonstration of workers of the company AST in Terni. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's events immediately called on me to report back to the Chambers. This is the case in the Senate with a special part of the afternoon session dedicated to this subject. The events that happened yesterday, on the occasion of the garrison held in the Independence Square in Rome by the workers of the AST of Terni in relation to the open dispute with the ThyssenKrupp property, have determined in me the immediate choice to come here and not to have any hesitation in declaring, even in the meeting that I had in the evening with the representatives of the trade union acronyms present in the square in Rome just yesterday, that yesterday was a bad day for everyone. Yesterday were delicate hours in Rome. In Rome, as unfortunately often happens, they have concentrated, at a short distance of time and a few hundred meters, coming to form an ideal fil rouge, whose theme is, dramatically, always that of the occupation, other agitations and protests against union background: all yesterday and all in Rome. In fact, at the same time they were in progress: the manifestation of the employees of the company Jabil di Marcianise, which saw the participation of 250 workers; that of the employees of the research organizations here in Rome; another called by the socially useful workers of the Lazio Region; and, finally, two garrisons near Montecitorio, also determined by occupational reasons. Without considering the preparatory work of the football order service last night at the Olympic Stadium. The Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economic Development have been the landmarks of most of these events, but they are in front of each other. Towards the seat of these institutions, in the heart of Rome, spontaneous processions and static garrisons of demonstrators have ended up pouring out. This is a condition which has made it necessary to carry out a necessary regulation, precisely in order to avoid sudden jams and confluences which could have made particularly critical the conditions of the city centre's viability. It is a particular important thing that I am stressing, because it relates precisely to the dynamics of the facts that affected the AST, and it also explains its evolution. On these facts and on the clashes that have taken place I will help to shed light on a rigorous and objective reconstruction, as Parliament asks me and as I feel obliged to do. Allow me, however, before I enter into the substance of the matter, to give my personal solidarity to the workers, those of the AST and those of the State Police, who suffered injuries in the course of the clashes. [[Applause from the PD, FI and NCD groups and Senator Orellana]] The bitterness of yesterday's day lies precisely in the fact that work, a central issue today in the country and in Europe, and wherever one wants to guarantee a future of hope and progress, seems to become the scene of a confrontation between workers. We must avoid, exercising a great sense of responsibility and valorizing all our capacities for attention and dialogue, that the difficult moment of crisis may represent the involuntary spark of conflicts and tensions that would risk triggering dangerous drifts. For this reason, during yesterday's meeting with the trade union leaders of the metalworking sector, I proposed that the Viminale be able to host tables of comparison with the workers' organizations, obviously not to discuss the issues of merit of industrial relations, but to address, according to a method of sharing, the governance of those events that can be more challenging even for public order. This method that I want to introduce is a further strengthening of a way that can and must always work more and better, that of coordination with the organisations that organize these events. The police forces, in their daily work as a garrison of legality and constitutional freedoms, have always put themselves in a not antagonistic key but as a guarantee of rights, of all rights, including that of dissent. This is demonstrated by the thousands of demonstrations taking place every day in Italy peacefully thanks to the protection provided by the police forces. On this I would like to stress to Parliament a point that is not numerical-quantitative but is political, that is, that in the course of 2014, and specifically since the establishment of this Government, there have been 5,934 important demonstrations in our country, and the vast majority of them had a course absolutely quiet. Absolutely important is also another fact, that is that about half of these demonstrations, exactly 2,350, had at the base trade union and employment problems; so, if the Government had wanted to have and give the police a line of extreme severity or hardness, it would have had 5,934 opportunities to do so and 2,350 opportunities regarding exactly the world of work. He never did; perhaps, if we want to say it in its entirety, we can say that the input given was the exact opposite. With reference to yesterday's events, I must say that in the morning, from 9 am onwards, around 500 workers from the AST of Terni had concentrated in the Independence Square, in order to be received by the ambassador of Germany, a member of the ThyssenKrupp industrial group, to whom they intended to address a request for interest. Shortly thereafter, a delegation of workers was received by diplomats of the German Legation for about an hour. At the end of the meeting was followed a slim statement from the embassy deemed unsatisfactory by the protesters. At this point, some FIOM representatives made the request to be able to give life to a procession in the direction of the headquarters of the Ministry of Economic Development. This request, however, was not immediately accepted, in view of the fact that, at that same Ministry, similar union initiatives were already underway, as I said, and that, therefore, the influx of other demonstrators could have caused logistical difficulties and management there of public order. Moreover, there was also concern that some protesters actually wanted to go to the nearby Termini station, waiting for this voice to be heard by police officers in the Independence Square. A large number of protesters, giving rise to a sudden procession, headed towards Via Solferino and, having seen the opposite barrier from the police, then diverted to other neighbouring streets that lead, however, to Piazza dei Cinquecento and, therefore, to the Termini station, strengthening the worry that had already been warned, that they wanted to head to the station. At the parade was unnecessarily called the halt, so it was soon arrived at a lively physical contact between protesters and police, from which four protesters and four State Police operators were injured, an official and three mobile agents, who all suffered injuries that could be cured from a minimum of three to a maximum of fifteen days. Then came the Secretary-General of FIOM, Landini, whose intervention helped to restore calm among the protesters. Afterwards a short negotiation for the authorization to carry out a procession towards the headquarters of the Ministry of Economic Development, which ended positively, with the definition of an agreed path. The procession then arrived, without incident, at the ministerial headquarters, where the secretary of the FIOM, together with about ten delegates, was received by Minister Guidi who, meanwhile, also for the mediation carried out by the police, had given his willingness to the meeting. The facts I have just rebuilt have of course been referred to the judicial authority, in which no protester has been denounced. I repeat: no protester has been reported. AIROLA (M5S). Just beat it, no charges! ALFANO, Minister for the Interior. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the weeks ahead are complex and very delicate. The many industrial crises that affect the country are the daughters of a crisis that comes from afar and that the Government wants to overcome with courageous reforms and clear choices. The individual industrial crises are followed with great proximity and attention to Palazzo Chigi and the Ministry of Economic Development. However, no one imagines that, in the midst of disputes and negotiations, all workers wait passively for the outcome of these negotiations. It is in the fullness of their constitutional right to freely express their thoughts, even in a harsh way and always within the limits of the law. For us the right to manifest is sacred and the sacredness of this right is kept inside the case of the rules laid down as garrison of public order, so that the freedom of those who manifest does not harm or compress the freedoms and rights of other citizens: freedom of movement, to live with security in their own city, the right to the safety of goods, things and places where demonstrations take place and, first and not least, the physical safety of women and men of the Forces of order who work and run risks, so that the freedom of both are both protected and do not become opponents or antagonists. This is how public order works: this is the rule of law, which is the oxygen of democracy. These things are well known to the police and the union. Mr President, Senators, in this context, the Government knows how to distinguish between demonstrations and demonstrations and this awareness of diversity is also the heritage of the Forces of Order, their democratic history and their experience in the field. With this conviction, I would like to assure you that this ability of distinction and discernment will always be applied: always, in every circumstance in which we will face the protests of the workers. It is in fact light years away from this Government and, therefore, from the Ministry of the Interior, the idea of mangling the workers, just as we are sure that it is far from the minds of the workers, even in difficulty and even exasperated, the idea of downloading the tension of very difficult moments on the police forces. This dual certainty prompts me to ask each political force for an effort of cohesion, in order to distinguish ourselves, here in Parliament, from the temptation to ride the social hardship resulting from the employment issue. It is a tension that can give immediate fruit; but it will not take long to realize that the fruit is poisoned. For our part, every effort will be made to better resolve industrial crises and to ensure the peaceful conduct of demonstrations. With this commitment I pay to you the whole and the full willingness of the Government to realize what was proposed yesterday to the unions [[Protests from the M5S Group),]] That is, a permanent table that allows for better governance of events, especially when they are at the background of the employment issue. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u5	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Interior. Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u6	Mr President, Minister, I say immediately, just to understand, that I consider the shooting of Susanna Camusso on a PD Premier established by strong powers and, in particular, by Marchionne an appeal to the ideological confrontation against the new black man, the new scare of the old left who cannot live without the conspiracy of the forces of the reaction in ambush. It is not written anywhere that, if the union fails to influence the politics of a government (center-left, in this case), that government is, as was said in the nineteenth century, a business committee of the bourgeoisie. But there's something that doesn't come back in the version of the riots at the workers' parade provided by the police. That something did not work in the management of public order is obvious, you yourself recognized it, Minister, at the end of yesterday's meeting in the meeting with the trade unions, and even a short while ago, when you said that yesterday was a bad day for everyone and you assured, rightly and very appropriately, that you wanted to guarantee the right to demonstrate respecting all forms of peaceful protest. It is important that the agreement with the trade unions - the table you have proposed - be to share the modalities of all the upcoming events, precisely to ensure the maximum expression of the protest, especially at this time of serious crisis for the workers, and the common will to strengthen the means of communication so that episodes like yesterday do not happen again. I recognise, Minister, the effort - which we share and support - to prevent a spark from starting a larger fire. It is clear that there has been an excess of reaction. The unions claim to have been attacked for no reason, but if indeed, as the police station claims, it was a containment action when the workers tried to break through the cord to go to occupy the Termini station, this must be possible to do with tools other than batons, with prevention actions different from that of barrels. I consider violence unacceptable, especially against those who protest to defend the workplace. It was not a question of dealing with the explosion of violence by black blocs or social centres; it was the trade union demonstration of 500 steel mills in Terni to combat the closure of the plant. That something has not worked, then, shows that we have spent all day yesterday and today too not discussing industrial policy, as we should, but attributing blame to the competent minister, to the quaestor, to the policeman. If someone has made a mistake, we must ascertain responsibility and take action, but we must not turn a painful accident into a further source of political confrontation, nor must we allow an industrial crisis to be exploited. Our common objective must be to resolve the dispute between the Terni steel works. A dispute that is even more complex than others. In fact, in addition to the liquidation guidelines of the German owners, we pay the price of European rules no longer in step with the times. In a business scenario now marked by the rise of the Asian steel powers, the Brussels Antitrust prevented the sale of the plant to the Finns, in order to prevent them from taking a dominant position. So the Umbrian factory has returned to the ThyssenKrupp group, which considers it residual. Mr Minister, once again, our aim must also be to introduce the necessary corrections to a paralyzed system, without which the condition of crisis and stagnation risks becoming chronic and affecting the real conditions of the workers. This is a prospect that we must oppose. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u7	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u8	Mr President, Minister, in view of my very brief speech, I would like to stress that no one will convince us absolutely that policemen love to beat and that workers are, by definition, violent in nature. We reject both these readings, reductive and strongly offensive for the role played by the police and for that played by the workers, even in a moment of great difficulty. I thank you, Minister, for the evidence you have given to our attention in the information on the serious clashes that took place yesterday in Rome and the approach with which you have taken care of the situation, which surely requires a serious and thorough assessment, because the tensions generated yesterday have in fact reached a level of particular gravity. The framework you have given us, Minister, I think is quite clear about the situation that was created yesterday, which undoubtedly required a thorough examination of the circumstances, dynamics and responsibilities of the facts in the first place. It is clear that, if there has been any negligence, if someone has been wrong, this must be verified and all appropriate measures must be taken accordingly. But it is absolutely necessary, in the light of the debate that is taking place in this House, for all aspects to be taken fully into account in relation to yesterday's events, and no one at all disputes the right of workers to express their legitimate claims and protests. Let us not, however, lend ourselves, on the other hand, to easy clichés (as I mentioned earlier), as if the police loved to mangle or the workers loved to be violent: neither one nor the other. And recognizing the contribution, the participation of all in a calm, sober way, in a rigorous way that nothing takes away from the liveliness and, at some times, also to the drama of a debate that leads to the loss of one's work, I think we must find all actors and all aware of the responsibility not only to lower the tones, but also to know how to find those tables of confrontation in the light of which we can build a democratic dialectic, that serves essentially to solve also the problems that we do not want absolutely go to get enchanted. It is clear, Minister, that there is a strong social tension: it is certainly not up to me to emphasize it. It is completely understandable, in the light of the difficult economic situation that we are going through and the many sacrifices that Italians have been making for years now. But we cannot take advantage of these difficulties in order to stress and fuel a confrontation, whose consequences may be much more serious than yesterday's. At this moment our commitment, your commitment, of which you have given the testimony coming here quickly, and therefore your responsibility, is to adopt behaviours and actions, of which you already a few minutes ago made us participate, regarding tables of confrontation with regard to events that could be more susceptible to dangers of public order, I think it represents a good perspective of that dialogue, of that Community construction that would give us the opportunity to solve problems a priori without intervening, as sometimes happens in Italy, ex post. To work seriously, therefore, to an understanding of the critical issues that characterize these times, I believe that dialogue - and not prejudices and preconceptions - can represent true therapy, the real solution to certain issues that we all see uniquely agreed in giving a complete response to those workers who have lost their jobs, to those who risk losing it and to those who live a situation of discomfort and fragility. It is only in being together, without making speculation - I say it with great calmness - of political order or of part that you can find a solution and you can build together a path of civilization that respects all the subjects involved in this world so dialectically strong. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups and Senator Sacconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u9	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u10	Mr President, Minister, in your fairly simple, elementary information - let me say a joke - I met again when I was a student, those rare times that I was not prepared, and I tried to respond elementarily because I did not have a preparation. And I'm realizing you did the same. Of course, you're right: there are also sparks of interest in society. Do you know why, Minister? Because our Constitution, in Articles 1 and 4, states that Italy is a democratic Republic, based on labour and that the Republic grants all citizens the right to work. For this reason, workers who no longer have work need to be heard. You spoke of a number of demonstrations in Rome, all legitimate and, I believe, not violent. For this reason, you do not understand the reason for this tension you do not know how to handle in advance. I am concerned, Minister, when you say that the Secretary of the FIOM Landini had to speak. I repeat that I am concerned about this. In fact, I don't want the secretary of an important union to intervene to quell the clashes between workers and law enforcement. There was a state-union negotiation. I want my Government to protect public order and to ensure that demonstrations take place that in Italy, in order to defend a constitutional right, workers carry out spontaneously to try to raise awareness (I remember, in fact, that the demonstration is a form of awareness). Its information has had rather disturbing passages, as when it pointed out that the German embassy issued a statement not considered satisfactory. This depends on the authority of a government: if there had been other governments, on the kind familiar to me of that of Bettino Craxi, or that of Silvio Berlusconi, this would not have happened. The authority of a government causes the ambassador to try to settle matters. Our international weakness is also seen from this (and I do not want to remember the situation of the maròs in India). You mentioned ThyssenKrupp, but I would point out to you, Minister, that the entrepreneurs who will invest in Italy will be less and less, because we have a judiciary that intervenes with a tight leg and makes the investors run away. The demonstration is that in 2013 there were 40 billion euros in investments in Spain, while in Italy only 9 billion. I repeat that there is no authority, there is no legal certainty. For this reason, Minister, I believe that you cannot let the union act as a peacemaker or that an embassy does not give concrete answers. Our solidarity as a Group certainly goes to the workers. You spoke of a four-to-four draw, but we would have liked it to be inviolate. So, though, it was. In conclusion, I would stress that we are concerned about another issue. When in Italy, in order to assert its rights, it becomes necessary a governance and open a table to the Ministry of the Interior, we are on the eve of periods that we do not want to remember (in particular, we socialists), which have not brought good to Italy and especially to Italians. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr Alfano, according to a lens that we use, what is happening is essentially the result of the political and historical moment we are going through. The left wants to take the whole political scene; indeed, to do this, the left becomes two lefts: it suffices to think that on the same day, while at the Leopolda the government launches its own lines, for example on the job, in an important square of Rome the same left completely contests the whole line and the politics of the government's work. This is how it happened - let us remember - every other day on constitutional and institutional reforms: on every law of some importance we find the left that occupies the whole scene. He wanted to do it yesterday too. We regret that workers are against other workers. Yesterday working tools, batons on one side and English keys on the other, found themselves unpleasantly on opposite fronts. Minister, I urge you to do a little analysis. How many times did the square get out of hand for the inability of some quaestor or police officer to handle it? Sometimes, the wrist was needed, but yesterday there were neither hooded, nor social centers, nor disobedient. There were workers who defended their family, their work, their dignity. Maybe the square got a little out of hand. Returning to this left that is hurling against itself, it made us laugh to hear that the Democratic Party arrives the accusation to the union that inside it taroccano the tiles and makes a social climb atypically and illegal. That says it's long enough. A suggestion to you, Minister Alfano. Today we read from the press that Renzi calls you because he wants explanations. I'm going back to the bomb: Renzi, president of the government, questions you, a minister, to understand how the events took place. If things had gone well Renzi and his government would have taken over all the results, they would have sold them. But when things don't go well, he does exactly what he did: he asks you to explain, he puts himself on the other side, he sticks a minister of hiss. Let us ask ourselves whether all this has a logic: a government that fully supports the European rules that lead to this result. TyssenKrupp, which has to release a certain branch of the company, finds a buyer; a Finnish company is willing to buy, but cannot do so because the rules you have supported at European level impose an antitrust at European level for which a dominant position in the steel industry would not be accepted. That is to say, you are engulfing yourselves. But I'm going back to the phone call that President Renzi made to you. If Renzi always wants to win, either on the square or on the other side, and his government, his ministers do not care, Minister Alfano - I ask a very affable question - but what do you do in this Government? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Mussini and Cioffi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u12	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u13	Mr President, we in the Left Group, the Ecology and Freedom Group, ask the Minister of the Interior to immediately identify those responsible for the very serious and unjustified violence against workers in the Terni steel works and their trade union representatives, both local and national. Of course, I ask you to identify both the performers and the senders. We want to know, you know, who gave the order. Beating the workers, who even in the desperate defense of their jobs make democracy and their enormous dignity prevail, is something indecent, shameful even for an anti-worker government like this. We want to know not to put them to the pillory (we leave these things to you, they do not belong to us), but simply because we think that the violence and provocations suffered by the workers deserve respect and justice. I think this would be the first real signal, important to prove with the facts and not with the chatter that yesterday's violence will remain an isolated episode. Is it real Renzi Government? Not to worry about hypocrisies, lying to dirty the dignified struggles of the workers. These are things worthy of the 1930s or 1940s. I read earlier that the workers would be beaten because someone thought they wanted to occupy the Termini station. I think it's a shame, no comment. Firstly, because it is absolutely not true and, secondly, because the few steps they have taken have taken in the opposite direction from the station. Shame! You see, Minister, you must apologise, and with sincerity - and I have not heard it yet - to the workers and their families, who must not bear, in addition to the very serious damage they suffer because of your negligence, even the humiliation of the batons and your hypocrisies. Try to imagine - if you succeed, it's very difficult for you - how their families felt when they saw those pictures on TV and their children seeing their fathers beaten. You have to imagine that. Finally, Minister, we ask you to make a commitment in this House today - if you really want and believe in it - to guarantee to all workers and all people the possibility of being able to express freely, peacefully and safely their dissent, without the risk of running into batons or anything else. Evidently there is the greenhouse effect of the Leopolda that immediately acted. Lower the batons from the workers, students and ordinary people, because you don't come here to make hypocrisy. This is the real and healthy part of the country, which has nothing to do with this crisis caused by you. I want to remind you with force - and not because I claim to remind you of it, but because it is history that teaches it - that those who fear the squares, the free and democratic ones, are enemies of democracy. When people are afraid of the streets, they are afraid of democracy. This country can't go on like this, nothing but talk to the wind. Mr Minister, after taking note of and perhaps having made specific commitments - if you are able, I repeat - do the only thing you can do, the only wise thing you can do: resign. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Bocchino and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u14	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u15	Mr President, we have sincerely appreciated Mr Alfano's speech on behalf of the Government, above all three elements, which will also have to enlighten us with regard to future action. The first was his appeal, on which I will return later, regarding the cohesion of the nation. It may sound rhetorical, but in reality we live in such an extraordinary time that it does not allow instrumental behavior compared to the difficulties that many people and many families experience every day, whose difficulties cannot be bent on the small conflicts in parties and between parties. Cohesion of the nation. The second consideration, which could be equivalent to the rule of engagement on the basis of which it is good to act the forces responsible for our security, concerns the balance, of which you, Minister, spoke, between the right of workers to show collectively and freely their own reasons, all the more so when motivated by the fear of losing work and income, with the right, no less important, of those unrighteous citizens who are sometimes deprived of the possibility to move freely (blocked in railway stations) or who see (fortunately in the context of demonstrations certainly not organized by our trade union organizations) even harms their property. Hence the right of citizens to a safe life; the balance between the right to collective expression of their own reasons and the right to a safe life. The occupation of railway stations was not uncommon and, without being able to say that in this case there was a certain willingness on the part of some to occupy the Termini station, we must remember that this behaviour, in the context of collective demonstrations, must be enrolled in the pathology and not in the physiology of them. [[Comments from Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] Of course, the occupation of the railway, of stations like Rome or Bologna, as it has been produced in the context of many demonstrations, is a pathology because it prevents commuters from going to work or returning to their families and prevents many people from moving freely. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] The third consideration that you have made and which I appreciate is that of the desirability of a dialogue with the intermediate bodies. It is good that you have said this on behalf of the Government; the intermediate bodies play an essential role, an important mediation between society and institutions. It is good that you spoke with the leader of a large trade union organization yesterday, and it is good that institutionally you considered setting up a table in which, together, the representatives of the Forces of Order and, on the other hand, those of the great workers' organizations can reconcile those rights you mentioned earlier, that of freedom of expression and that of a safe life for people in our cities. It is good not to forget the commitment that we must make with regard to the Terni steel works. I think it should be possible - and this I want to say to your Government - for an extraordinary public instrument, provided it is transitional, because that company cannot remain isolated as a company producing stainless steel, even in the context of the ThyssenKrupp Group, for which it would be the only factory in charge. Therefore, the possibility of transitional public intervention is linked to the need to bring that plant into a group in which it can be usefully integrated, perhaps surpassing that stupid European law which, in the name of the free internal market, prevents a large European producer, but too small compared to the Chinese, Japanese or American competitors, from growing as it would be appropriate to do. I am referring to the Finnish group that had acquired the plant, then relegated to ThyssenKrupp. Without thereby losing our liberal convictions, we do not give up the idea of a public instrument that transiently intervenes in the same ownership structure with the function of accompanying towards a sustainable solution that plant, with all its capabilities, its strategic importance for national production and with all its employment importance. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Zanda]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u17	Mr President, Minister, we have just followed that no worker in Terni's steel works has been denounced and I have to say: there would be no more, since he had them ganged and punched! Would we also like to have a complaint followed up on these incidents? See you. We also learn that from the establishment of your Government there have been 5,934 demonstrations, of which 2,350 have been held on employment issues. If that's not enough for you to understand that you failed, what else do you need? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's talk about facts. Yesterday 600 workers from the Terni steel works, in peaceful demonstration, arrived in front of the German embassy by ten buses from Terni, just to ask for answers. Minister, it seems that the embassy did not meet the expectations of the workers by simply responding with a Following the response received, through the trade union representatives, the workers then asked to move towards the building of the MISE, all through a peaceful procession, which thus was also downstream of the serious facts we know. Meanwhile, the Forces of Order have closed every way out of the protesters to prevent the occupation of the Termini station, although they were heading in the opposite direction to the dreaded one. There is a video, released by the police, that confirms this hypothesis because in the video you can clearly see the protesters heading towards Via Curtatone, in the opposite direction from the station. Other videos, on the other hand, clearly show baton and even punches. There's a video that proves it, Minister. Look at him if he hasn't already. It is clear that this episode is only the final effect of the lack of a serious industrial, energy and environmental policy and, above all, in this case, of a national steel strategy. I remind your government of the AST, ILVA and Lucchini cases and many other industrial cases. The most important point to start from is that those workers were there at that time, that is because in front of the German embassy. Besides, why go to MISE? Obviously because the political chain of this majority and of this PD is not able to support a real and compact dialogue with Europe and is unable to impose, or does not want, its own policy against the logic of multinationals. Perhaps you, Mr Alfano, do not realize that what happened yesterday is only and exclusively an amendment to your jobs act, which you voted in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You voted for the precariousness of work without introducing any kind of social support. You voted for an extremist maneuver that, like yesterday, led to extreme consequences, because yours is an extremist policy that does nothing to avoid social clashes in every way! Unfortunately, only one command from you and your government was executed on that road yesterday. You find yourself carrying out the final act of a clear and precise political strategy: to remove all certain references to Italian families and to retain once again privileges only for some. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You and Renzi have declared yourself as the new and as the change, but use the same methods that have always been used over the years: Genoa, Val di Susa, Niscemi and many others and Rome again. Once again you are late on the introduction of the identification codes of the Forces of law enforcement, forces also composed of workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Democracy cannot handle dissent in this way, these methods cannot be used to resolve social issues. That is why you uploaded the students of Naples this morning, only because they were in solidarity with the steel workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What is the point of once again putting workers against workers, citizens against workers, police against workers and protesters, even reaching the claims of Toninelli, of the SAP (Autonomous Police Council), who is hurling at an absent Mayor of Terni for events dating back to a year ago? It is clear that if everything took place in a few minutes, someone gave first the clearance to raise the tones and lighten the demonstration. So we ask you, as the final executor of a policy distant from the real country, to assume your responsibilities and really clarify all aspects related to this affair. Others will answer for their sins. In the meantime, I'm announcing the filing of a motion of no confidence against you. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u18	Senator Giro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u19	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia has no difficulty in considering the reconstruction provided here today as plausible, although there are still some concerns about the topography of Rome and the distance to the roads (it is, however, my concern, which I am concerned about and which cannot in any way cast any shadows on what the Minister has said today). Unfortunately, however, I am afraid that Minister Alfano is paying deeply for the political nature of this Government, which suffers a very profound ambiguity. I am referring to the ambiguity of having as an internal pillar the Democratic Party, condemned - as writes today an authoritative editorialist of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) - to a conflict without divisions, to a frontal opposition to its internal and in its immediate social and trade union articulations between a left who aspires or tries to be reformist and post-ideological and a left proudly linked to its history of social claims. To my colleague Maran I say not to be scandalized by the shooting of the Camusso because today, on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) an authoritative member of the Democratic Party has declared (and has not so far been denied) the following: I don't like a government that lets workers and union leaders gang around. (...) At Leopolda, Davide Serra, Renzi's friend, the vip financier, takes the floor and says serious and unacceptable things about the right to strike and then, three days later, what happens? It happens that the cops see the workers, lower the visor of the helmet and load... These are the statements made by Mr Zoggia, who I do not think is an unknown emeritus, and they are statements much more serious than those of the Camusso. You see, Mr Alfano, an interior minister must be able to express around himself a civil consensus, which is not a political and social consensus; that is his business, his party and his majority in government and is part of the political struggle, of the dialectic and of the confrontation, which is a harsh and harsh confrontation, according to rules that we have given ourselves. The civil consensus is what is born beyond the belongings of party or party. After the reform, the prefectures are territorial government offices and must be able to read and interpret the malaise, also social, which is unfortunately growing in our territories, and you are the synthesis, authoritative, credible and accredited to express precisely sensitivity and attention to this discomfort. Well, this consensus, about its function, its role and its institutional responsibility, it struggles to build and consolidate it, precisely because the political line of the Government is a confused, overwhelming, contradictory and ambiguous line, on this, as well as on other events: I am referring to immigration, public security and the civil rights of people. ThyssenKrupp's problem is a very well known problem, at least for a couple of years, when the Finnish plan, which has been mentioned several times in this House (an expansionary plan in the Mediterranean area that would reward Terni's factories), was rejected by the European Antitrust to the advantage of German factories. But there is not only ThyssenKrupp, and tomorrow there will be more than ThyssenKrupp: we have 160 Italian, medium and large companies that risk closing down. We have 155,000 workers (28,000 of whom have already been declared redundant) who are likely to lose their jobs. Over the last 12 months, we have had 300 meetings convened by the Department of Economic Development's Dispute Management Unit. We also had 62 positive agreements, promoted by the Led Government and the Renzi Government. All economic sectors are involved in this unease: agri-food, steel, information technology, electronics, chemistry and textiles. The steel industry is now a national emergency, from Terni to Ilva di Taranto to Piombino. But these realities were known, and a Minister of the Interior, who is perhaps the Minister who represents more than others the state of mind of a country, its spirit and its discomfort, must be ready, organized, authoritative, credible, present and not absent. I, on the other hand, have noticed in recent months a fragility of the Ministry. I want to tell you that, as Forza Italia, we will be next to you, because we are a party of opposition, but we are a responsible party, a national and popular party, which is an interpreter of the discomfort that I have called for. We will not, therefore, lack our support as a group, as a party and also as a staff, but we must react, be accountable from an institutional and political point of view and try to beat our fists if necessary. You beat your fists more in the Council of Ministers and make yourself supported, because it is not possible to read today in the newspapers, in this majority and in this Government, divergent and diametrically opposed political lines, judgments and comments that are a fist in the face of the Ministry's work which you authoritatively represent here. I hope that this reaction and this whisper from you will be there. I know you well: you are responsible, serious and competent. So we expect this from you, because things like yesterday's do not happen again. Solidarity with the Forces of Order is obvious, as is obvious solidarity with the ThyssenKrupp workers. I conclude by recalling that the policemen who were present yesterday to ensure the safety of our squares in Rome, a city, as you recalled, the scene of many demonstrations, are the same policemen engaged every day to welcome human lives that land on our coasts, Sicily, Calabria, Apulia; the same ones who save the lives of small and very small children, to young people who, precisely, seek life in this country. They are the same policemen, and therefore we must have great respect for this reality that deserves recognition, attention and closeness. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u20	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u21	Mr President, I would really like to thank Minister Alfano for coming to the Senate to report so promptly. You, Minister, defined what happened yesterday in Rome as a bad day for everyone, and on that day I understood the political sense of your speech, which I gladly give you. However, we must be able to assess yesterday's serious incidents in Rome, taking into account the social, economic and political context in which they took place. I must stress that we are not talking about a gathering of international bankers, but about the attention with which workers must be considered struggling for their future and for their survival. The Democratic Party is close to all Italian workers and knows that unemployment is the most painful scourge of this time. Unemployment is the risk that the workers of the Terni steel works, who yesterday in Rome defended their jobs from the closure of a strategic company in the industrial landscape of our country. Their crisis, unfortunately, also caused by absurd European legislation, is not the only one in our country [[Comments of Senator Paglini]] But we will soon be discussing this: on 13 November, when the Democratic Party's motion on the specific industrial case of the Terni steel works will be discussed in this House. The Democratic Party, however, also knows the democratic sentiment of our Forces of Order, the men of the Police, the Carabinieri and the Finance Guard, which is out of the question. Their daily sacrifice is the guarantee of our free civil coexistence. We are talking about men who are committed to defending legality, in a risky job, often mortified and misunderstood; workers who in recent years have been sacrificed to the principles of austerity, even some of their economic rights, Minister. It is within these preliminary assessments that we must express our political opinion on the facts of Rome. [[Comments from Senator Paglini to whom Senator Cardinali replies.]] The Minister of the Interior is right to want to be close to the Forces of Order, to defend its work and to protect its public image: this is its institutional duty. The point on which we draw your attention, Minister, is the need to reiterate always and in all circumstances the operational directives and democratic service instructions which must preside over the defense of public order. Social peace and legality are defended by engaging in all the professionalism that the Forces of Order have (which is so much) to contain peacefully, without the use of force, demonstrations, protests and even the intemperance of those men and women who demonstrate with the only instrument that they have remained to defend the right to work, and ultimately the daily bread for their children. [[Senator Lucidi's comments.]] In an advanced democracy, as we want both ours, the workers crying out for the workplace and the men of the Forces of the Order who defend the republican legality must never come to the confrontation. That is why we need the responsibility of all those involved. But the police forces, which have the democratic monopoly of the use of force, have an additional duty: to always remember how much prudence is necessary in the exercise of their duties. Italy, Minister, is going through a very serious economic crisis, which has produced record levels of unemployment. A crisis that, as we know, will not end soon. Parliament, the Government, the enterprises, the trade unions must know that in order to overcome the difficulties and bring the country back on the road to development, even before the laws and measures of Europe, it is necessary to ensure timely and even obsessive action in favour of that social peace which is the indispensable premise of any economic manoeuvre. Our difficulties are immense. Italy is taking very serious risks, not only from an economic and financial point of view, but also from the point of view of maintaining economic and political governance itself. That's the question, Senator Giro. Forget the internal life of the Democratic Party and read in a different spirit the daily press that has nothing to do with these events. The police forces and the world of work are all in the same front: the front of the defense of social peace and the rules of peaceful civil coexistence, according to which never and never free demonstrations of protest must end with episodes of violence in which the Forces of Order are involved. I ask you, Minister Alfano, and I am sure you will, to make this directive explicit and unambiguous to those who have the operational responsibility of public order in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u22	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of the Interior, whom I thank for his willingness. The sitting shall be suspended until 4 p.m., pending the beginning of the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 15.51 a.m. and resumed at 16 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u23	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure on issues relating to the management of migratory flows and resources and the organisation of police forces, to which the Minister for the Interior will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions on issues relating to the management of migratory flows. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u26	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, Minister, it is clear that those relating to the complex and terrible phenomenon of migratory flows - as we have repeatedly pointed out in this House - are European policies and national policies. But we know that, in our country, the weak link of the reception structure risks being the local authorities, in particular the municipalities, on which very often there are commitments that cannot always be faced by the administrative and organizational structure of those realities. To make a joke, everyone gets mad at the mayors. We know what the immediate terminal of our citizens' grievances is: everyone's commitment is not to leave them in the front line. I then make four requests for further consideration of this difficulty. As far as the first is concerned, we are told by the municipalities that resources are not enough. There is probably no programming with respect to the capacity - as has been done in other countries - to imagine, with regard to a phenomenon that is now structural, structures that are made available to the reception, and not from time to time recovered from the different availability. In particular, it would be interesting to know if in this programming there is room for a more widespread presence of migrants through the formation of small structures and, therefore, more capable of being transposed from the territory. The second request is an alert. Our legislation today does not allow migrants to work, but we know that this would be important not only to give dignity to these people, but also to promote integration and acceptance by the territories. The third point concerns the certainty and quality of transfers to local authorities, especially with regard to timeliness, because sometimes this puts our administrations in difficulty. The last line refers to the reality from which I come. Border regions have some different problems in the distribution of flows. There is not only Mare nostrum, there are also other flows that come by land. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what is the direction in the future in order to better weigh this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u29	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, the Mare nostrum operation has been at the heart of a thousand disputes and disputes. There are those who give it, and also the Government, a positive reading. We believe that it has not avoided a long series of tragedies - even in these hours, from the news, I think it adds one more - nor has it discouraged the traffickers of people who, indeed, knowing that they are rescued at some point of their journey from the Italian Navy, have felt even more facilitated in their vile and speculative traffic. There was talk initially of a cost of one million euros per month. We have reached more than nine and then perhaps eleven or even more, if we count all the figures concerning also the staff; there are the disbursements that are granted to individuals who arrive, which are higher than those of which many Italians enjoy. We have just spoken of a serious social and employment crisis, which should lead us to a priority in the management of limited resources. We have a problem with the municipalities that is being dumped, and then with the European takeover which is not fully understood how it will happen. Frontex has washed her hands several times, saying that Italy still has its responsibilities. Operation Triton, which should be triggered in a few hours, has uncertain contours. Germany has said that since summer - now it's cold and, therefore, in winter it's a bit risky - it will provide a helicopter and ten policemen. It would be funny if we weren't faced with a real tragedy. Other governments were right - and you, I think, were also part of it - that, with bilateral agreements with some countries - even Libya of the then vilified Gaddafi - had helped, with Berlusconi's leadership, to block the departures. We are heading towards that policy and we want to know costs, figures and reliable forecasts regarding Triton (so called the new operation under Frontex), since many countries are disinterested and hostile. Cameron, who is praised by many, even from the left, for his liberal positions on civil rights, has been very hard in the last few hours towards Mare nostrum and some operations. I hope that in this case, too, those who have made it a model from the various political parties. We are concerned and dissatisfied and we would like to know from you what the prospects are.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u32	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Minister, migration flows must be managed by preventing hunger and wars in the countries of origin and, if anything, by organising reception in neighbouring countries. Those who call peace missions (armed) have strengthened dictatorships and tensions and landings increase. You are deluded to block a multitude in the ports of Libya, but your agreements with Libya have failed, as the Maginot line failed. Thousands die at sea and hundreds of thousands land; our populations suffer hardships, damage to tourism and repercussions on public order and health security. It is like a flood, but from Europe there are no mud angels. The decanted operation Triton counts only two patrol ships, two patrol boats, two planes and a helicopter, thus unloading the cargo on our forces of order for the coastal control, at sea and on land, moreover already complicated by the infectious risk. What does the government do? In the bill of stability it is preparing to block recruitment for the police forces and to make further cuts for 146 million euros; increase of 200 million the expenditure for the reception to immigrants, bringing the daily tuition to 50 euros; allocate ulterior 850 million euros for the military missions. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you what measures you intend to take to protect the safety of citizens and the infectious safety of agents who are in the front line (training, training and health devices). I would like to know, then, given the cuts, how many agents will have to distract from other delicate functions and how many cars will remain without petrol or maintenance; how many forced expatriates were carried out in 2014; with what transparency criteria the contracts for hospitality structures are entrusted. If you wanted to explain the reasons for the closure of the reception centre for asylum seekers in Partanna, citizens would be relieved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u35	SACCONI (NCD). Minister, I would particularly like to ask you about Operation Triton, of which we would like to understand the scope, because it seems to us that it represents an extraordinary novelty. If Mare nostrum, in addition to the humanitarian functions it has carried out, could have ended with the start, finally, of a European intervention in the Mediterranean, it would have already achieved a great goal. Since Gianni De Michelis, the prime minister of Europe, launched the alarm in 1984 of the great migratory flows which would have inexorably moved from the southern shore of the Mediterranean to Europe, this would be the first moment in which the Union of European States becomes aware of a common task. It seems to me that Triton can have these characteristics. Maybe it also tells us what the further evolutions of the European commitment can be, so that the functions of the reception can be all the more shared so that not only a free movement of refugees is recognized, but more generally the great exodus caused by conflicts, persecutions and even poverty can rightly be a business of all and not only of Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u38	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Minister, we have long listened to your announcements, the announcements of the Government, about the alleged transition from Mare Nostrum to Frontex Triton of the European Union, which, among other things, would have the task of coordinating operational cooperation between the Member States on the management of external borders. Perhaps you will recall that we in this House have asked over the past few months and weeks to continue the Mare nostrum operation, which, from our point of view, is an unavoidable guarantee of the salvation of the lives of migrants on the coasts of Libya and Egypt to Italy. We have, moreover, repeatedly advocated the need and urgency of a policy of helping migrants, of welcoming refugees, to allow women, children and men to enter Europe on a regular basis, who very often (almost always, as we know) run away from wars which the West has often caused or not often resolved with real senseless military missions. We would like to know how Frontex can be expected to replace Mare nostrum with the same efficiency and operating methods, since, to date, neither the resources made available by the Union nor the countries that have joined it (for example, England has declared that it does not want to participate) are known and also given the very small number of ships and the means of which it is known.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u41	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, as you know, we are opposed to this invasion facilitated by you and this Government. Within this invasion there is a particular problem that is that of unaccompanied minors, who, as you know very well, are entrusted to the social services of the municipalities that at the moment are unable to meet these expenses. According to the data provided by his Ministry, in 2014 the minors arrived in Italy were 6,722, of which almost 5,000 unaccompanied, most of which of Eritrean, Somali and Egyptian nationality. ANCI has denounced this problem and the fact that the municipalities are no longer able to bear such an important expense. Let me give you an example, so that we realize what the municipalities are forced to endure. The Municipality of Pavia currently has 55 children of Egyptian nationality: 80 euros per day, for 55 minors, for 365 days. You check what expenses the Municipality of Pavia will have to pay. It is also important to highlight the fact that the Egyptian ambassador audited to the parliamentary committee on the implementation of the Schengen Agreement did not understand the fact that Italy is the only European country not to send back the children who arrive on its territory. The only European country. Everyone else sends them back except us. This is not what Senator Centinaire of the Lega Nord and Autonomy Group says, but the Egyptian ambassador. Looking forward to a fight against this invasion, we ask you to ensure that the expenses for the reception and management of foreign minors do not exceed the budgets of the municipalities, including by considering the possibility of excluding these expenses from the constraints of the Stability Pact, reaffirming once again the need to combat this invasion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u44	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, our country has now become the catalyst for human flows fleeing from an incredibly unstable Middle East and Africa. In this context, the management of flows is a problem on which we are constantly at the forefront, which raises a number of questions on reception facilities, the protection institutions granted to migrants and the training of the bodies responsible for managing this issue operationally. All the dynamics left, in fact, to the discretion of the territorial offices, without precise directives at central level and outside the necessary framework of the Community perspective. According to Eurostat data, Italy from 2010 to 2012 was the member country with less procedures rejected in asylum applications: it rejected 20% of the applications submitted compared to a European average of 70%. But only 9.3 percent of the applications accepted by Italy in 2012 comply with the directives of the Geneva Convention. The European delegation law for the second half of 2013 drew Italy to a greater attention to the process of asylum recognition procedures, including the problem of the specific training of the bodies and staff involved. I therefore ask you what initiatives the Government has taken to achieve these objectives, including in view of that link and harmonisation with the European Union, which has become an essential element for proper and effective management of the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u47	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, Minister, in recent months there has been a steady and exponential increase in requests for refugee status in the territorial committee in Gorizia. Gorizia and the entire eastern border continue to be the destination of new arrivals and the structures are saturated. The point, however, is that they are a large part of people who have already made a request for international protection in another country of the European Union, against which the competent authorities have spoken adversely. They are people who come to a large extent from Pakistan and Afghanistan and who, after living for several years in different European countries and not having obtained from them the recognition of international protection (in some cases they are citizens returned repeatedly), then come to Italy to present a new similar application for similar protection to the Italian authorities. In other words, there is a sort of tourism of international protection, so the foreigner who sees himself rejecting the application by the authorities of one Union State to reformulate it to another State, in the hope of seeing it accepted. Given that the parameters of the examination are the same for all 28 countries of the Union and that the evaluation must be common, the commission must be able to declare inadmissible the request for international protection, once it has established the lack of new facts and in the presence of one or even more negative decisions by other countries of the European Union. The lawyers would say: ne bis in idem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u48	Mr President, it seems to me that many of the questions asked are unifiable, so that our work will be quite clear. I begin with the question that concerns Mare nostrum and that also concerns the level of reception. I try to follow a chronological order, responding immediately to the question of my colleague Russo, who poses exactly the central theme, that is the change of profile of migrants, who were previously economic; so the remedy was to tell them, as we did in the government 2008-2011, that they could come only if they had a job contract. Today, however, we are dealing to a large extent with refugees, asylum seekers or humanitarian protection seekers, with a completely different status, which imposes on us different obligations arising from international treaties, as well as from the Charter of Human Rights. Well, this change in profiles has required us to change the way we receive them. We then made a strategic choice, to focus exactly on the relationship with the municipalities and the regions, with a strengthening of the SPRAR system (Protection system for asylum seekers and refugees). This choice of ours also had a bearing on the law of stability, which specifically concerned unaccompanied minors. On the other hand, as regards the part of the stadium decree that has provoked so much controversy in this House, it was not a refinancing of Mare nostrum, as has been wrongly said, but a financing of those reception facilities that exactly serve to give reception to asylum seekers, refugees, and even unaccompanied minors, in the logic of a response. When it comes to asylum seekers, in fact, there is someone who has to answer: someone is the Italian State. So what did we do? We have doubled, with the possibility of extending, the number of committees that need to respond. In agreement with the municipalities and the regions, we have expanded the reception possibilities for asylum seekers and increased the number of committees, so that we will be in a position to respond as quickly as possible. If you have refugee status, we say yes; if it is not yours, we will return you. That's the strategy. On this strategy it is also important to amend the procedures, which we have determined by law through your consent, namely the possibility of each asylum seeker being examined not by the whole committee (which meant a greater expectation for the reply), but also by a single member of the committee. These are all strategic choices passed by Parliament, precisely to cope with the change in the nature of migrants. With respect for the phone call that Senator Gasparri is definitely about to conclude, because I am going to answer his question, the difference with the politics of the Berlusconi government 2008-2011 is very simple. At the time, migrants were economical and came from Tunisia. There was, therefore, a stable Libyan Government, on which there is no need to express judgments, and an unstable Government in Tunisia. Therefore, the agreement was made with Libya, but the migrants arrived from Tunisia; 62,000 arrived and arrived, in principle, in Lampedusa. The government then chose to turn Lampedusa into a colossal disaster, with a perhaps irrecoverable and irrecoverable image damage for that wonderful island, which was pressured to prove that they were there and we guaranteed the humanitarian protection provided by law. This allowed to handle that emergency by declaring the state of emergency. The point of the bilateral relationship today is the lack of intercourse with Libya. Today we have a stable Tunisia, with which there are excellent relations and with which there is the possibility of interlocution; in the same way, we have a better and working relationship with Egypt on return, but we do not have interlocution with Libya. His reasoning, correct in principle, which says to activate a conversation with Libya, serves the fact that there was no possibility of a stable interlocation there. We must make it very clear that this is an issue of international policy of the whole international community, which must remedy what has happened in Libya, because a very large percentage of migrants, who are approaching 100, are leaving Libya. This is the essential point on bilateral cooperation. I now come to the third point, which concerns the Mare nostrum issue. In early October last year 366 people died in Lampedusa. The tragedy required an Italian response, which was translated into Mare nostrum. Mare nostrum was, from the beginning, conceived as an emergency operation to respond to the drama of Lampedusa. The operation, clearly emerging, was launched precisely in the logic of giving an Italian response to Europe's eyes to that drama, through our Forces of Order and Armed, in the first place the Navy, which I thank for the extraordinary work that it has carried out together with all the Forces of Order. Europe's intervention has been loudly invoked, and this gives me the opportunity to respond to Senator Sacconi. Europe's intervention at the end of a long and troubled negotiation came in the form of Frontex's intervention, which intervenes with an operation called Triton, which absorbs two, Hermes and Aeneas, but which will not perform the same function as Mare nostrum. Mare nostrum arrived beyond our territorial waters, beyond the Schengen border, almost in the vicinity of the Libyan coasts. This operation is on the Schengen border line. The political value of all this will not escape because it means that Europe returns to guarding its borders. The difference was asked: the difference is considerable, first of all in terms of costs. This operation costs about a third of what Mare nostrum cost and certainly not only Italy, which means a huge saving for Italy. The obligations are different, in the sense that the mission Mare nostrum arrived almost, as I said earlier, to the coasts of North Africa; this garrison the border. Another question that asks me: doesn't search and rescue, doesn't search and rescue? Yes, but within the limits of international navigation law, the law of the sea. There is no agency that can exempt the navigator or those who are at sea from the duty to help those in difficulty. This is absolutely obvious, clear and is exactly within the mission's scope. This mission has a number of participating States that have no precedent in the history of the agency and Europe, and that is undeniable. Then, each gives his own: Germany will give a helicopter later; we have acquired the willingness of many countries to provide air and naval facilities; other countries will provide specialist technicians, others will give men who provide special specializations and who will help. This is a fundamental point, because we have said that Europe is going down to sea and guarding the border. That doesn't seem like a small result to me. What is the consequence? It is that since November 1st, the 30-mile line, there will be no possibility of holding two lines of protection, one near the North coast of Africa and the other at 30 miles. Therefore, operation Mare nostrum will close, and will do so according to a leak, a facing out, which the Government will shortly determine, deciding how long the exit path from Mare nostrum will last. It is clear that the effort and work requested by several colleagues in this House, beginning with Senator Gasparri, to speak with third countries in the Mediterranean, seems very important and is the responsibility of Italy and also of Europe. On that effort we will also measure the results that the new committee will achieve, bearing in mind that the issue of Libya's stability must first be resolved. As far as what Senator Centinario of the North League was concerned, in the matter of unaccompanied minors, as I mentioned earlier, we have made a remarkable change. Unaccompanied minors before were the responsibility of the Ministry of Welfare, according to a logic that gave assistance to these minors on the basis of an old law that referred to the single unaccompanied minor and that had practically no one to care for him, and therefore entrusted him to the Ministry of Welfare. In order to meet the changing needs, also with reference to an agreement with the ANCI, the municipalities and the local authorities, we have merged the responsibilities to the Ministry of the Interior. It is also a decision taken during the last law of stability. Unaccompanied minors will be welcomed into the facilities used to protect asylum seekers and refugees. All these initiatives bear witness to a great deal of attention to the problem, just as in this logic the forecast, contained in Decree-Law No 119 of 2014 with which the relaxation of the Stability Pact for Municipalities was arranged, in the awareness of the difficulties of the municipalities most burdened by the weight of migrations. Mr Di Biagio asked a question about the issue of international protection in the territorial committees. In part, the answer is absorbed by what I said earlier. We have also made an investment in territorial commissions in terms of training and changing procedures to make them more efficient and faster. I would like to reiterate that this serves to give an immediate positive response to those who are entitled and to allow an immediate return of those who are not entitled. We will strengthen this choice further, because we have in mind that if the effort so far made to give a concrete response in terms of efficiency, speed and respect for everyone's rights is not enough, we will extend the committees further. We've brought the currents from 10 to 20 and sections 10 to 30. That was the increase in the number of committees. I would also add that with Decree No 119 of 2014, we have planned a special initial training course and regular refresher courses, also organised in collaboration with the UNHCR and the European Asylum Support Office. Senator Maran asks a very important and absolutely centered question, which concerns a sort of asylum shopping that affects so many migrants. Any slope of an application for international protection in another Member State shall be taken over by the public security authority which receives the request through consultation of the Eurodac database. In this case, the Dublin national unit, which interfaces with the same contact point of the other Member State, is immediately informed in order to define the competence to examine the application and to agree on the recovery of the foreigner. And this is, to our advantage, consistent with the Dublin principles. In the meantime, the territorial commissions for the recognition of international protection are informed of the possible slope of an application of the same subject to another State and suspend the proceedings, and then declare the termination once the competence of the other State has been established. From this reconstruction, although brief, it emerges that regulatory gaps are found almost irrelevant. There are no particular gaps between Italian and European legislation, either at national or supranational level, specifically with regard to European discipline. Nor, in our view, can there be any major procedural problems, because the description of the procedure that I have just carried out in positive terms is that, by means of the Eurodac circuit mechanism, the answers arrive fairly quickly. This is the result, which does not give any particular increase to the territorial committees. I believe I have answered the questions of all the senators, except those of Senator Endrizzi and Senator De Cristofaro. That of Senator De Cristofaro was a question absorbed by the answer I gave about Mare nostrum, in the sense that two lines of sea control would not, in our opinion, be justifiable. Once the Tritone operation has started, it is difficult to explain the continuation of an emergency operation like that of Mare nostrum. As for the safety of citizens also in the new operation, Senator Endrizzi, on this point there was a meeting, exactly yesterday, at the Ministry of the Interior with representatives of the Navy and the Ministry of Defence. Ship safety and health checks will be assured, of course, for the benefit of those directly concerned, for the benefit of our military and the members of the Forces of Order and also of the same people who travel on these ships. I have also been asked about the safety of our fellow citizens in relation to the cuts. I have followed, as Minister of the whole, two laws of stability. The first one ended with a positive budget of more than 700 million for the sector and the Ministry. The other result of the first law of stability was a 55 - percent turnover. For the first time, i.e., the possibility of replacing those who retire has been greater than the previously envisaged possibility (which was a very minimal share) of hiring against those who retire. Now that share is 55%. This is the balance sheet of the first law of stability. In this new law of stability, however, we managed to achieve a result that had long been expected by the police, that is, the release of salary, salary and salary ceilings. It is precisely in these two laws of stability, which mark the start of the first two financings of this legislature, that the sector of the Forces of Order can mark a very positive fact, that, in a not exactly expansive conjuncture, the issue of security has been considered a central issue and absolutely priority in the action of governments. And this seems to me to be a very positive and remarkable result. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u51	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers. We can only share the philosophy expressed by the Government of a strong alliance with Regions and Municipalities. We will ensure that this alliance is also confirmed in the next law of stability, in the conviction that the challenge of integration will enable this country, not only to fulfil its humanitarian obligations, but also to possible development. There are some principals: the municipalities, first of all, the regions and the school. The action of the Government and that of Parliament must go in this direction. And we will surely accompany the Government's efforts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u54	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am dissatisfied and irritated by the tone and content of the answers. It is not true that all those who were brought with Mare nostrum are political refugees. There are also many illegals, so I would like to deny what you said. It is unconstitutional the decree stadiums - you mentioned it - because a financing of Mare nostrum was included in that provision, and I am surprised that even at the Quirinale, where they rightly point out that omnibus decrees are unconstitutional, no one has said anything, and we voted an unconstitutional decree. With regard to the disaster in Lampedusa, I would remind you, Minister, in favour of holding meetings and press conferences, when, Minister of the Berlusconi Government, he gave different judgments. The disaster was in Lampedusa: now there is all over Italy, probably because of a sensible policy, and I demand bilateral agreement policies with Tunisia, Libya and many other states. After that, the warrior rage of Cameron, Sarkozy and others led to a war that eliminated a dictator, Gaddafi, but multiplied the caliphates and terrorist groups. Call someone in Libya; use the smartphone that illegals have, otherwise I'll give you a token, as Renzi has shown us great experience in the telephony of the past and the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u57	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Minister, you said that Triton will cost a third, so either before you wasted public money or now we have a lack of control and patrol. A responsible government would reinvest those funds to ensure the greatest need for safety on the ground and along the coasts. You keep silent about the number of expulsions, and that weighs on me, because it means that your governments can only reject, do rejections at sea by surrendering political opponents to death - we have been condemned for this - but, when the illegals set foot in Italy, we do not know how to distinguish honest people from criminals. The former remain and we deliver a dictator a mother and a child. It says nothing about procurement and transparency, how they are awarded, whether or not the anti-mafia certificate is required, and in the newspapers we read about the colossal business of the reception centers. Here, apart from the Mafia, we know how many economic interests there are and that sometimes they are red cooperatives or close to the center-right. I wish I had a few more words from her.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u60	SACCONI (NCD). Minister, I am fully satisfied because I believe it can be said that Operation Triton, the intervention of Europe, of as many as 18 of its countries in the Mediterranean, is the concrete result of this six-month Presidency of the European Union. It, with good peace from my colleague Gasparri, replaces the operation Mare nostrum that ends. The operation Mare nostrum, which has played a role not only - I repeat - for the many lives saved and for the government of this border of the Union, but above all because it has prepared the ground for this historic turning point. I recalled 1984 as the time when there was an official awareness, for then only Italian, of the migratory phenomenon, but only now, since then, we finally record the commitment of 18 countries of the European Union in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u63	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Minister, I very much hope that we will be denied in the months to come, but instead I fear that we will be in danger of meeting in this House when Mare nostrum has ceased and replaced it with Triton Frontex, and we will mourn more deaths. It is clear, in fact, from what you have told us today, that the effectiveness of Triton Frontex will not be even remotely comparable to the effectiveness that Mare nostrum has had during these months. I think that Italy should have had another kind of approach: rather than waiting to set up other European missions, it should have used its Presidency role of the European Semester to ask for certain resources from the Union and to involve the European Union directly in the Mare nostrum mission. The fact, instead, of having wanted to give in also to a certain unbearable propaganda, that has been made in our country during these months, I think it will lead to great tragedies with which unfortunately we will have to confront.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u66	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the comment is that I am a little puzzled by the lightness with which this issue has been addressed, partly because, just today, the director of Caritas in Milan has also spoken about this emergency and many mayors talk about it and face it. The hope is that this loosening of the Pact will apply to all the figures that are supported by the Municipalities and not only, then, for small refunds, because otherwise we send in virtually all the Municipalities of Italy. Let me turn to two final points. You mentioned certain types of immigration. I remind you that, out of 135,000 migrants (as you call them) landed, only 35,000 have applied to be recognized as refugees and, of these 35,000, only 3,000 were entitled. It is, therefore, less than 10%: the rest (135,000 minus 3,000) are illegal, Minister. As for the last point, I am sorry that you loosen the Stability Pact when it comes to migrants, whereas when it comes to the elderly, the unemployed and the problems of the country, the Stability Pact can never loosen it and you are very rigid. Even think that the flood victims of Genoa will charge the water: the Italians zero and migrants everything. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u69	DI BIAGIO (PI). Minister, thank you for your concrete answers. Personally, I am convinced that everything that concerns the recognition of international protection and subsidiary protection, or in any case asylum, is an area in which adequate central coordination is required and an approach involving the appropriate training of the structures and bodies involved. We cannot afford to deal with this whole issue as a mere administrative activity entrusted to the territorial committees. We need a shared international procedure, led by appropriate bodies specialised in international cooperation, with specific training and expertise in this field. In this sense, I share the line taken by your Dicastery to you, Minister, and I am pleased with your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u72	MARAN (SPI). Minister, thank you for your reply. It is, of course, a question of providing the territorial committees for the recognition of the competent international protection with the appropriate instruments for establishing the slopes of other applications of the same rank in another Member State of the Union and, above all, allowing the committees to reject applications, especially in the presence of one or more negative decisions by another Member State of the Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u73	Let us now turn to questions concerning the resources and organisation of the police forces, which will be answered by the Minister of Interior Alfano. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u76	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, Minister, first of all, I would like to stress that the possibility of proposing the immediate response question on the subject of the organizational resources of the police forces, in the aftermath of the events of which the Government has just been informed, is accidental and, therefore, as far as possible, should be isolated from those facts. However, there are three topical issues which concern the safety sector, on which I intend to ask the question. In the Senate there is a question of the bill of reform of the public administration, within which the delegation of reorganization of the police bodies is contained. I believe that this is an appropriate forum for the Minister of the Interior to make us aware of the state of progress of the Government's guidelines on the exercise of the delegation. Secondly, it is asked (even if it has been mentioned previously) whether it is in the will of the Government to keep the commitments made also with the union representatives of the Forces of the order in the agreements that provide resources that remedy the difficulties that the workers of the security sector have faced in these years, ensuring these resources also for the years to come. Finally, after the positive feedback given to the persons judged fit present in the last rankings of competition of State Police, Prison Police, Carabinieri and Forestry Corps, it is asked whether they can have similar response the persons judged suitable in the last rankings of competition of the Finance Guard within the law of stability, of next approval.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u79	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, the Government has on several occasions announced other major cuts in the police force. The former extraordinary commissioner for the spending review Cottarlii had planned for 2.5 billion euros in 2016-2018, while now we are talking about 1.5 billion. These measures have found the clear opposition of the leaders of Police, Carabinieri and Guardia di Finanza, who have excluded the possibility of further reducing the number of men in the field. The police forces, as they are called to ensure security, are at a very delicate crossroads and further cost reductions, which should be identified, will not have to impact either on staff or through further linear cuts on budget chapters. The hypothesis of arriving at the unification of the police forces was set aside thanks to the results obtained with the coordination programme, created to limit to the maximum possible overlaps. But if the planned cuts are not avoided, there is a risk of undermining the entire internal security system at its root, not to mention that the wage freeze in career progressions, which has affected the security sector personnel for 1.7 billion euros over the last four years, is already undermining the hierarchical organisation and, in particular, the motivational lever. We therefore ask the Government what alternative solutions it intends to pursue in order not to proceed to ulterior cuts of the staff of the Forces of the order; if it considers that it is possible to put hand to the reduction of the intermediate consumption; what initiatives are previewed for a reorganization of the Forces of the order that valorizes the specificity recognized to them by law and that points to the strengthening of the garrisons of safety and not to their weakening.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u82	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Minister, first of all I can only condemn what happened yesterday. It is an alarm signal of a growing tension that can no longer be contained with fake and empty announcements, but it will explode if the announcements will not follow concrete facts that will benefit the citizens. Regardless of the specific events that took place yesterday - the coincidence with today's issue is a coincidence - the Forces of Order guarantee the security of citizens and the public and, as such, they must also have the tools to do so. I would like, first of all, to suggest to the Minister that he begin to assess the hypothesis - and I ask if he has considered it - of identification numbers for agents engaged in public security operations, regardless of the legislative process of the draft laws under consideration in the Senate. However, I ask you to clarify the contents of article 21, paragraph 1, of the law of stability for 2015, which does not seem - according to the law - to exclude the security sector from the extension of the salary block, as has been widely announced. In essence, it is stated in the technical report that the extension for the year 2015 applies to non-contractual staff under public law, but it is not expressly stated that the salaries of officials, officers and sub-officials are released. Salaries are blocked for police and armed forces, the rest is a deduction: we wonder why not write clearly that the blockade of salary increases is removed. No, a deduction must always be made, even though you have just stated that it is the merit of this Government to have unlocked it. In the law of stability, however, it is not clearly written: it is a deduction that comes with some mortal leap. I assure you that we have encountered difficulties in actually finding the content of the salary release. I also ask you how you intend to address the needs of increasing the resources and organic endowments of the Order Forces, the payment of overtime, the lack of instrumental resources (it is known that there is a constant shortage of fuel for service cars) and the provision of safety and protection, with particular reference to the reception of migratory flows, in order to ensure their safety. All with the cuts announced in the law of stability.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u85	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, Minister, it has been a long period of years that have represented significant cuts in transfers relating to the forces dedicated to our security system. With her there are significant reversals of trend, for which I question her, with reference, in particular, to recruitment, in order to ensure an adequate turnover of the staff; to the encouragement, especially of that part of the police personnel employed in the operational activities; to the overcoming of the economic block relative to career progressions, which in many respects also presents profiles of dubious constitutionality; to the single number, still, of European emergency (112), from which we must expect a much greater efficiency and integration of the many emergency services that insist in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u88	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Minister, within the decree-law on violence at the stadiums, which we recently approved, or rather that you and the majority of you approved, there was a rule that - in our view - would have required a treatment at least in its own right. I am referring, that is, to the rule that foresees the experimentation in our country of the electric gun, called Taser, between the weapons supplied to our Forces of the order, moreover precisely at the same time when - as it has been remembered also today - in Italy lacks even the money in order to be able to put the fuel in the cars of the same Forces of the order. In that place we presented an agenda that was rejected, which asked not to proceed with the testing of the electric gun, also because it denounced its much greater danger of representation. In fact, they are stunned weapons, equipped with electric discharges that cause the immediate neutralization of the target and that, moreover, have been under observation, for several years, many humanitarian organizations, which have denounced the large number of deaths in countries where they exist. Then, Minister, we would like to know how we intend to proceed with this experiment; how we intend to avoid the easy and, unfortunately, possible abuse of this instrument, which - in our view - the Government has decided to introduce too lightly; and we would also like to have some more details on the costs of this operation. In the age of cuts and of great suffering and difficulty we would like to have more details about this which is certainly not a secondary aspect.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u91	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, the growing flow of refugees and illegal migrants landing on the shores of our country integrates the extremes of an emergency with potential health implications, in view of the hygienic conditions of the States in which the flow originates. A considerable part of the refugees and illegal migrants is collected on the high seas by the Navy vessels taking part in the Mare nostrum operation. Once on national territory, illegal migrants and refugees are also taken over by the law enforcement and state personnel. It is therefore a real emergency that the Forces of Order are no longer able to face, in spite of self-denial and dedication, demonstrated, by now quantitatively insufficient, in relation to the size of the challenge. To the already complex ordinary tasks, in fact, have recently been added those determined by the absorption and management of a number of illegal migrants coming from Africa. In addition, there is consequently a health risk from exposure to infectious diseases from national personnel involved in the management of the migratory emergency. We ask, therefore, to know what measures the Government has taken to reduce the risk of contagion in the personnel in service at the police stations responsible for the reception of non-EU citizens; what measures it intends to take to ensure that police officers can operate according to their professional mandate, without being subjected to excessive risks and are, moreover, equipped with all the appropriate tools to carry out their tasks to the best.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u94	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, on the subject of the resources and organisation of the police forces, there is always the problem of the rankings of the police competitions. We know that, in the past years, competitions have multiplied without taking into account, as a matter of fact, the rankings of previous competitions still open: a situation whose responsibilities clearly cannot be assigned entirely to the current management - no doubt they fall on a previous administration - but whose script was unfortunately repeated at the last competition, banned in view of Expo 2015, which also did not take into account the existence of previous rankings, generating bad moods and litigation. The situation currently requires effective and far-sighted choices, also because leaving in a waiting limbo thousands of young winners and eligible not winners, for whom access to the Police represents a hope and a vocation and also expresses the will to put himself generously at the service of the Country. Currently the rankings for 1,600 agents in the 2010 competition and 2,800 agents in the 2012 competition are still open and pending: there are about 1,800 people among the winners and eligible people who could help mitigate the need for staffing and operation of the police forces. I therefore ask the Government what initiatives it intends to prepare also in view of the imminent release of the turnover planned for 2015, in order to guarantee to the many young people still waiting for the mentioned rankings the admission to service. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u95	Mr President, I will use less time than I have. Senator Collina asks to know the methods and criteria for the reorganization of the police forces, and the resources for the years to come, and then asks the question of the suitable. Starting from here I try to answer to other colleagues as well. With regard to the criteria for the reorganization of the police forces and the rationalization of police officers (here is also the question of Senator Mazzoni), I want to be very clear. We intend to reorganise the national security system without removing men from the streets and without reducing safety standards. Indeed, we have a much more ambitious objective, which is to strengthen security in cities, urban security, with joint work with local and territorial authorities. Even yesterday's episodes show that the system of public order is a vital element for the democratic functioning of the country. Therefore, before we intervene and correct a system that stands in front of 10,000 public order demonstrations every year, we must think very carefully and we must act without running the slightest risk of reducing safety standards. This is a basic element in the reasoning that we are pursuing. This does not mean that a series of services and activities cannot be shared, working in synergy; this does not mean that, if there is a garrison a few meters or a few kilometers from another, a rationalization cannot be carried out. This is an essential point. As far as the total number of police forces is concerned, I would stress that the choice of delegation is precisely to tell Parliament to work on and reflect on an issue on which the Government wants Parliament's greatest participation, in a logic - in fact - fully participatory, because one touches a very delicate element of democratic life, which is that of the national security system. As for the resources for the years to come, the theme put in connection also by Senator Mazzoni does not see us in trouble, in apnea. I want to repeat this, although I have already mentioned it in part by answering the previous questions: in the two "financial" approved in this parliamentary term - or rather in the first already approved and in the second of this year, which has been approved by the Government and will shortly come to Parliament - we have not marked a red, but we have marked an increase in resources. In this particular year's case, we have unlocked the issue of salary and salary ceilings, which seems to me to be a great achievement. From this point of view I would like to point out to Senator Crimes, without any form of irony, that he cannot find written that the turnover is unlocked since the previous norms already provided for the blockage of the turnover until 31 December 2014. So there was nothing to say: it was enough not to renew the turnover block. I explained it as normal and natural as possible. I understand criticism and contestation, but if you do things right, it is right that there should be no criticism, perhaps unjustified. The other question raised by Senator Mazzoni concerns specificity. On the substance of the matter, I would stress that all the actions we are taking tend to strengthen the specificity, which we consider to be an achievement that should not be abandoned. This is a very important element for us that has meant that even in relations with the union representatives of the police forces we could express a clear word: on the specificity we do not back down and we reaffirm that on the police forces this country and this Government intend to invest. I add other considerations concerning the questions asked by Senator Sacconi, whom I thank for the recognition given to the action we have carried out and I repeat what I have said so far: no less man on the streets, garrison of territorial activity by the security forces and the objective of making Italy a safe country in which to live. We have a programme of further efficiency of the police forces, as we said earlier, and we also have as our objective increasingly effective cooperation with local authorities. The next objective we are aiming for is a law on safety in cities, which seems to us to be a very fundamental strategic objective to ensure. As far as security is concerned, Parliament passed a bill, not a government initiative but a parliamentary one (originally born in the Chamber of Deputies) that allows the use of Taser, an electric gun already tested in other countries. It is clear that our action will be aimed at the use of the instrument, subject to all checks. Parliament has given this indication to the Government and it will comply with its instructions by making all necessary checks and studying the precedents that have occurred in other countries. With regard to the question of Senator Centinario concerning the health issue, on 9 October the Minister of Health said everything there was to say. I can only add that the traditional screening facilities for migrants on the ground will be maintained after landing and before sorting them at the various government centres. We have also provided for the distribution, for prudential purposes, of a personal protection kit to the staff of the State Police who is in service in the airports affected by international flights outside Schengen and this instrumentation can be distributed, in case of actual need, to the staff of other offices or other departments. I do not think I have yet answered Senator Di Biagi's question about the recruitment and validity of the rankings. The normative measure of sliding of the ranking remembered from the senator had and has a specific purpose that is that of the development of Expo for which, in extraordinary way, it has been previewed the assumption of the eligible of the ranking of the contest for 964 students agents announced in 2013. This act, which is extraordinary, has not modified the entire pre-existing legislation, nor the code of the military order that requires, until the end of 2015, a precise periodic frequency of the competition also to meet the specific needs of the defence that are linked to the need to ensure a sufficient number of volunteers. Therefore, beyond the intervention entirely exceptional related to the increased needs of the Expo, it remains difficult to assume further scrolls of rankings already defined (those that refer to the competitions before 2013) because this would result unfair consequences on already consolidated positions with inevitable risk also of the increase of the litigation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u96	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u99	COLLINA (PD). First of all, I would like to thank the Minister. With regard to the instructions you gave on the organization of the police corps, I am satisfied. In the first Commission we are dealing with this debate and we are also tabling amendments. I think it should be stressed, however, that the fundamental aspects are those relating to rationalization which safeguards specialisation by trying to avoid overlaps. As regards the aspects related to the safety sector's endowments, substantial confirmation and reassurance has been given. On the last point, I believe that further consideration should be given to whether the conditions we have created are even more unfair than those we are trying to avoid. So probably the theme must be re-addressed, in order to understand if the presence of continuous competitions and therefore the generation of successive rankings, one after the other, then involves in reality the automatic creation of these situations to which then you can not give answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u102	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we want to reiterate the assumption that the security sector cannot be treated like all other sectors of public administration. The Minister said that specificity will be taken into account. I remember that the law was wanted and launched by the Berlusconi Government in 2010; but the successive Governments transformed it into a kind of empty box, which in turn turned into a further mockery for the Forces of Order, which had so much struggled to have the specificity and then found themselves with nothing in fact. However, I take note of the fact that the Minister has assured a reorganisation of the Forces of Order that does not decrease the security standards. We will watch for this to really happen, just as we will watch for the law of stability to complete the valorization of the Forces of Order even from a salary point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u105	CRIMI (M5S). Mr. Minister, without irony, but when you want to unlock the salary of a category, you want to give a wage increase and for this you need money, which I do not think I find in the law of stability (this is what I expected). There is a budget (if there is money), but obviously we prefer to spend it on the purchase of Taser, for which we hope not to find ourselves, as in the case of electronic bracelets, with some relative or friend of the Minister (present or future) in the company that will sell them (if already planned). I say, however, that the Forces of Order would operate better if overtime were paid for them and if money were allocated for this and not for the Tasers. When we talk about rationalization - you have used this term many times - we have now learned that this means cuts. The rationalization has already begun, because perhaps we have forgotten that a lot of police stations have been closed this year: I remember the road police and other police stations in the areas of Breno, Salò, Treviglio. So the cuts have already been made; rationalization has only resulted in reduced safety and certainly not efficiency, as it should be.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u108	SACCONI (NCD). Minister, I am fully satisfied. Thank you for what you have done with regard to turnover: as many as 55% of the outgoings have been reinstated, thereby reversing the trends of the past. Thank you for the use you have made of the single justice fund, because it has been dedicated to the promotion of police personnel employed in operational activities. Thank you for the rules contained in Decree-Law No 90, with reference to recruitment, and above all to the law of stability, which at least exceeded that unjust economic blockade of career progressions for the staff of the Forces of Order. Above all, I thank you, because you defend police officers and public security personnel every day from the attempts to delegitimise that continue to exist.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u111	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I hope, Minister, that the checks you have mentioned on the sensitive issue of the introduction of the electric gun will indeed be stringent and serious, as you have said to us today: we will check this over the next few months. I really hope so, also because - let me say this - symbols, political gestures and symbolic gestures also count very much. As we are in a very harsh phase of social confrontation and social conflict and as we have just spoken in this House about what happened yesterday and about the very serious events that happened yesterday in the streets, I stress that we are faced with a Parliament and a parliamentary majority who reject, as they are doing (losing months and months, despite the presentation of many bills, including my own at the beginning of the legislature) to affix the identification codes on the helmets of the Forces of Order. On the other hand, they introduce the electric gun, with all the risks involved. This frightens me not only from the symbolic point of view, but also from the political point of view and says a lot about the time we live. Therefore, we will look very carefully at this experiment and denounce it with great force where we should realize that, as in other countries, it will cause damage in Italy and not positive things instead.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u114	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, the Minister for Health has come to this House to talk to us about Ebola. We were not specifically interested in that problem; we would have liked to hear about medical and health care, what is being done, behavior training in the Forces of Order, what they are advised to do. I'd love to hear about TB vaccines. These are the things that concern the law enforcement forces right now. I am also afraid of those situations that are within our national territory. We have been told that 30 immigrants moved from Venice to Vicenza have been diagnosed with scabies. The problem is that from Venice to Vicenza they forgot to tell the police of Vicenza that these migrants had the scabies. If we forget about these diseases, I can imagine what can happen to others. I ask you, therefore, for more control and more attention because, without wanting to be alarmist, it takes less than a second to transmit a virus from one person to another.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u117	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the evidence he has given on an issue that deserves effective answers, also in view of the complex process that accompanies access to the police forces and which includes, among other things, an obligatory passage into the army. The distinction between the first and second rates is a whole series of passages involving two administrations. In this sense, I would like to take this opportunity to point out the opportunity, Minister, to establish a special coordination in this area which can ensure that, in the dynamics of transition from one administration to the other, the aspiring agents do not end up in a land of no one where there is a risk of the proliferation of unacceptable delays and irregularities. I am sure that your administration will be able to deal with the problems in a decisive way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u118	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Alfano for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u121	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, the speech I am making is quite difficult, but I think it is appropriate to give a voice to these people and families as well. Putting our faces on it, I think, is also our duty. The story is of a citizen, whose first and last names I also make, because it allowed me to do so, Mauro Zampognaro. On February 24, 2005, Mr. Zampognaro and his wife bought from a company, which I call B, with the act of a notary x, an apartment located in Pompeii, the current residence of the family. In order to collect all the sum agreed in the compromise (about 300,000 euros, worth 3,000 euros per square metre, fully aligned to the Pompeii market) were helped by parents and in-laws and, for the remainder, they requested and obtained a mortgage. We are in the year 2005; in June 2006, after the renovation work, they settled in the new residence, where they currently live, perhaps for a short time. In the meantime, two children were also born. In November 2011, after six years of the purchase act, the real ordeal of this family begins. He unexpectedly received an invitation to appear at the court in Torre Annunziata, as the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of Goods Confiscated from Organized Crime had, on 12 May 2011, made a request for the cancellation of the transfer of two real estate units, one of which was Mr. Zampognaro's house. The request for annulment was based on the fact that the gip of the Naples court had ordered, on April 19, 2001, a preventive seizure of two apartments, which were then achieved by certain acts. Of course, Mr. Zampognaro, most likely, knew absolutely nothing about this. I'm moving on because time is running out. The seizure decree erroneously refers to the cadastral sheet 12A, while this family's apartment is stacked on sheet 12. Thus, the record had been made by the conservatory of real estate on a particle other than that of the gentleman's apartment in question. This error has caused today a number of other errors that have seen this gentleman and his family currently with this property confiscated, rightly for the current law. But in reality we are faced with an administrative error which this family unfortunately pays the consequences of today. My prayer, in fact the same one that the family did by sending it to the Head of State and explaining in detail the situation (I have little time), is that the Presidency, to which I will hand over the papers, can verify and deepen the issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-344.ana.u123	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 4 November, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.17.
