ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 1 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on active labour policies and on the discipline and financing of social shock absorbers, to which the Minister for Labour and Social Policy Poletti will respond. I'm sensing that RAI's live TV is on. Let us turn to questions on active labour policies. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u6	Parent (PD). Madam President, Minister, recent ISTAT employment data describe our country with a 12% unemployment rate and 43% youth unemployment. This data comes in while we are discussing the approval of the draft law delegation of labour reform, which is one of its government's priorities, and while we are in the process of implementing the European Youth Guarantee project. In addition to these alarming figures, which are of course alarming, I would like to highlight a number of faint positive signs, which you rightly pointed out, Mr Minister, such as the increase in employment among men (even if it is in slight decline among women) and, above all, the decrease in inactivity among men, women and young people. So let us record that there is a recovery in the search for a job. This indicates, if so, an investment of people in their future and Italy must be ready to welcome this recovery of confidence. Therefore, in addition to implementing growth policies (a commitment that will be the guiding thread of the European Semester), Italy will have to increase expenditure on active policies and labour services, historically one of the lowest in Europe. Only 4% of job seekers turn to an employment centre, and only 1.4% of young people. Young job seekers turn to relatives, friends, and friendly networks. The network of support to the job is fragmented both on the institutional level, and on that of the policies, with deep differences between the Region and the Region. Expenditure on active policies is very low. Not only do we spend little, but also badly. A large part of the regions use, on average, less than two thirds of the resources allocated to the European Social Fund, amounting to 61%. I would therefore ask you, Minister, if you intend to intervene in a structural way in relation to all these aspects of the problem by holding them together (non-expense resources, therefore the spending capacity of Italy, and the State-Regions relationship) to build a National Employment Agency and whether you intend to make experimentation and the Youth Guarantee initiative permanent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u9	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, the recent employment figures do not yet show any signs of improvement: in May the unemployment rate rose to 12.6 per cent, the female rate to 13.8 per cent and the youth rate to 43 per cent. With the young bonuses of the Letta Government only 22,000 young people managed to find a job, compared to the target of 100,000 hirings. With the Youth Guarantee project, to date, only 3% of the young people who have applied will be able to obtain an opportunity for training and work. Before issuing new rules, it is emphasized that in the field of work we are still waiting for as many as 25 implementing decrees out of 41 previewed, of which 10 with already expired deadlines. In addition, it is recalled to the Government that the work creates it by the entrepreneurs. It is essential to support companies, which are still forced to make their own productive and employment choices in the uncertainty and lack of predictability of the economic and regulatory framework. All this has been said, we ask you if you do not consider planning incentives for the recruitment of young people over a medium period (at least forty-eight to sixty months); if, in general, you do not want to envisage structural incentive measures so that the employer can plan the choices needed to amortize investment in human capital and if, in this sense, the use of the resources of the Community programming 2014-2020 is not useful.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u12	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the 5 Star Movement has denounced the fragmentation of employment services and their inadequacy to the role, proposing that a follow-up and detailed analysis be made of the data and results of the services offered, including those managed by Italy's work and Formez, with the inescapable objective to verify in a certain and definitive way the sustainability of the programmes in relation to placement services. The 5 Star Movement has also repeatedly urged the Government to implement active measures to support income and combat poverty (I remember the income of citizenship); to establish a uniform national programme for the use of active policies; to ensure a link between active and passive policies, stressing the importance of establishing a uniform and uniform information system to ensure data interoperability; to establish a national register of qualifications (to ensure a broad recognition of competences), an electronic file and the citizen's educational booklet. These measures are punctually rejected by the Government and the majority, but they are found in the last recommendation of the European Council that asks our country for a national reform program for 2014. I note that 20 different ways of implementing the Youth Guarantee project have also been defined. The draft law delegates on labour services and active policies is too general, ambiguous and in stark contrast to regional competences. It aims to reform these proportions without an increase in State expenditure and does not specify how a uniform system will be created in Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Catalfo. CATALFO (M5S). I'm almost done, Madam President. This provision provides for a national agency of which the Parliamentary Commissions are not given to know either the typology or the structure, let alone (except for voices about Italy's work, ISFOL, CNEL and Formez) have information about the staff. Finally, the draft law does not specify what the role of public services will be in the management of active policies. The 5 Star Movement therefore believes there is a risk of putting on yet another wheelchair of recycled, and therefore asks the Minister to answer the questions I asked.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u15	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam President, Minister, with regard to active policies, we are interested to know how you intend to encourage healthy and useful competition between all guidance, placement and training services, so that they compete on the basis of the concrete result in favour of people without work. For our part, we point out the good practice of vouchers, the system of vouchers (I say this for the benefit of those who listen to us outside), which are given in the hands of the unemployed person to freely choose the public, private or private-social service he trusts most, which will then be paid only on the basis of the result of a job even if, clearly, not definitive.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u18	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, as you know, the draft law on labour delegation is currently being examined by the competent Senate Commission and provides for the start of a radical reorganization of the labour services system and active policies. The questions I intend to ask you are as follows. In a country that, thanks also to the type of policies supported in recent years at European and national level by successive governments, is on the threshold of the 4 million unemployed, the majority of which concentrated in the Mezzogiorno and the islands, believes that the system of services must remain structured on a territorial basis even if the provincial institutional level is in the process of being exceeded? Do you think that active policies should find ample scope in policies aimed at local development, i.e. the exploitation of the resources of the places and the promotion of initiatives related to the productive tradition of the regions and territories concerned?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u21	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, in the field of active labour policies, the draft law delegates, so-called jobs act, provides for the establishment of a National Employment Agency. The Regions, in a document delivered to the Government, have evidenced the necessity to accompany the National Agency 21 regional agencies without additional costs, with the objective that they can be the operating arm and that they respond to the labour market. In this way, local authorities explain, there would also be greater cohesion between training services and active labour policies. The National Agency should instead define performance levels and staff standards and support localised situations. As a North League, we ask the Government what its opinion is on the proposal put forward by the Regions and if it does not consider it necessary, before providing for the establishment of a new structure, to proceed in some territorial realities to the reorganization of existing ones, clearly inefficient like some centers for the employment - real carriages that waste public resources - perhaps also providing for the abolition of centers that in the course of a solar year have not placed or relocated at least a percentage of workers equal to the national average reduced of 1%.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u24	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Minister, on 1 May 2014, the Youth guarantee, the European plan to combat youth unemployment, was launched in Italy. In addition to the national plan that identifies common actions throughout the national territory, each Region has the commitment to adopt its own implementation plan. Regarding the implementation, it is asked what monitoring measures are active on the use of funds by the Regions and on the full implementation of the programme, and what initiatives does the Government intend to take so that the Regions that do not appear in line with the timing of implementation give full implementation to the program. Again with regard to measures aimed at bringing young people closer to the labour market, I would like to mention the importance of the apprenticeship contract, which allows the virtuous dialogue between training systems in the world of work and introduces a new vision of work focused on the person and his specific skills. In the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano we have for the apprenticeship a dual system of alternance work-vocational school of public obligation very well functioning. The Government is asked if it does not intend to take action to enhance and develop the dual system at national level. Finally, I would like to remind you that Article 7 (8) of Legislative Decree No 167 of 2011, provides for the extension to the public employment of two types of apprenticeship: vocational apprenticeship and apprenticeship of high training and research, both aimed at young people aged 18 to 29 years. It is asked to know whether the Minister intends to take action in order to solicit the enactment of the implementing decree referred to in article 7, paragraph 8, of such legislative decree, if it is not yet in the phase of approval.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u27	ICHINO (SPI). Madam President, Minister, everyone agrees that in a modern country we should invest in active labour policies, that is to say those aimed at the reintegration of the unemployed into the productive fabric, at least as much as we invest in passive policies, i.e. income support measures for those who have lost their jobs. However, in Italy today we spend tens of billions on income support and a few crumbs on active reintegration measures, since we cannot classify among active policies what we spend on vocational training of a vocational type whose effectiveness is never detected, that is, the rate of coherence between training provided and actual employment opportunities. In the last Stability Act, we have allocated 980 million for passive policies (integration fund, unemployment, socially useful jobs, which are actually a form of masking income support for the unemployed) and only 15 million for testing new active policy measures with the establishment of the Active Policy Fund. So far you have no responsibility, Minister, since the law of stability came before you took office. That law, however, provided for the adoption of a regulation to activate the fund which was to be issued by the end of March. It's July, and there's still no record of that regulation. All the majority group leaders in the Commission put a question on this in early April. We have renewed it lately and we would like to know if the time has finally come to use at least that crumb for the start of regional experimentation on the subject, for example, of contract of relocation and conjugation between active policies and passive policies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Poletti, together for ten minutes. Unfortunately, the RAI connection requires us to respect the tighter times than usual.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u28	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators who have asked these questions and to make these comments, because I believe that this is a good opportunity to represent, in terms I hope, sufficiently organic and fast, what the will is and what the Italian Government's action is in relation to the issues of active policies, as they have been at this stage. I would like to start with a first fact: the Youth Guarantee project is being implemented today - from 1 May - and, at the present time, more than 100,000 young people have registered. I believe that the first element must be considered from this point of view: 100,000 young people have been active: they have decided to open the portal, to evaluate things and to register. Along with this, today we have about 5,000 registrations from companies that offer employment opportunities to these young people. This number is considered low, and it is certainly low if compared to the 100,000 young people who have registered, but it is very high compared to the fact that in our country this thing has never been done. We started about two weeks ago; in the first week we had 500 recordings and in the second week we had 3,500 recordings. I hope that this trend will continue; we must also say that these opportunities offers refer exclusively to companies that have registered directly to the national portal of the Ministry and do not concern everything that the Italian regions are doing, which in turn have important projects of relationship and matching between enterprises and work. Of course, I am not referring to all other actions, such as civil service or other actions relating to training. Therefore the opportunities for young people will be absolutely in line with the demands that will be proposed. There is also a consideration of timing and mode. I think it must be stressed that a method of total and absolute transparency has been chosen in the management of the Youth Guarantee, because every Friday on the Ministry's website the data are reported, so we know how many young people and how many companies have registered, how many requests and how many opportunities there are, what the Regions are doing. From this point of view, I would like to make a consideration of the questions you have asked me: the work together with the Regions is a work that the Ministry is developing on the level of full and strong collaboration. We all know that there are very different starting situations, so we have Regions that have a robust and active employment structure and services in relation to active policies and regions that do not have such a situation. I think we should consider the performance, that is, the change that is taking place. The regions which had not prepared instruments in this respect are also doing so and are developing important action. So you have to see the starting point and the iter we're developing. I believe that this is an important fact. Considerations have been made about the twenty different situations; Title V of the Italian Constitution produces this fact. So all the work we have done at this time has been on the level of mutual will (which I must judge in very positive terms), of the willingness of the Regions to dialogue with the Ministry and of commitment of the Ministry to build a direction of these actions. We are developing these points at the same time and I believe that the element of transparency and reporting is important from this point of view, because having all the data of all the Regions, at the same time every week, produces the effect that each Region is buyable immediately and directly with every other Region, the first and the last. So everyone is able to judge and assess whether the things he's doing are better or worse. From this point of view there is a specific theme that you have proposed: employment centres. I think we need a fair assessment of the situation of employment centres in our country. Active policies need infrastructure and employment centres are an essential infrastructure. We think we are building the National Agency and, to give a simple reference to what we think, I can say that we are working very carefully on the German model. We are therefore seeing how, in that country, employment services have been implemented in federal form, with a national dimension and a size of the Länder, but with shared cooperation and governance. We think that this can be, in terms that are still very much on the side of today, a model that we can, to some extent, report on in order to have an idea of the direction in which we are working. Along with this, there are two other considerations that we can make, as I said in relation to employment centres: we appear to other European countries, such as England, France or Germany, saying that in Italy our centres place only 2% or 3% of the people. We must also say, however, that in Italy there are 7,000 employees in a stable form and 2,000 in a precarious form; the countries we appear to have 60,000 to 90,000 people in charge of these services. In those countries there is a close relationship between passive policies and active policies; in our country passive policies are placed at the INPS as the subject that distributes and manages the database, while active policies are distributed, as you well know, on the territories and therefore it is clear that there is a great leap to be made. This is the will and intention of the Government and from this point of view I must say that the regulation relating to the relocation contracts is ready: it has been prepared by the competent management, within the Ministry of Labour we are carrying out the technical investigation to verify that the formulation is fully coherent and soon we will sign it and publish it. We therefore respond to this right request, which is part of another comment on the number of decrees that are waiting to be, as it were, produced and approved. I have to say that there is a significant proportion of decrees that have already been signed and that are being prepared, but many of these deal with a well-known topic to you, which is that of the concert; therefore, we need to find the modalities and the times so that all the ministries involved, with the times that are in turn required, can develop their activity. With regard to other issues, the subject of school-work alternation and the subject of apprenticeship, we are very keen and interested in developing this action, we did so also with the last decree converted into law, which tried to simplify and give clarity to the issues of apprenticeship. In September we will make a comparison with the German Ministry of Labour on the subject of school-work alternation and on the subject of the dual system. Since this type of activity is historically defined in that country and is developing in very positive terms, we have agreed with the German Minister of Labour to carry out here in Rome a moment of comparison between the German companies that use this system and the Italian companies that could use it, so that we can compare our situations with those present in that country and verify their practicability in this sense. From this point of view, I can say that we have already signed the decree necessary for the implementation of the general rules on school-work alternation (which also provided here for the need for a multiple signature of various ministries and this took some time) which was somehow related to this situation. Following up on the questions put, there is one issue that concerns the need to reprogram the resources and still reflect on the way in which they have been used. This is a work that we are doing right now, because we agree that it is entirely right to systematically monitor all the rules and their implementation so that we can also verify the possibility of redefining the conditions for full implementation or full use of the resources allocated. For example, on the employment bonus, which has been mentioned recently, we are doing a test to understand what may possibly be the requirements that have been placed at the basis of the possibility of obtaining that bonus and whether those requirements are all consistent and all appropriate to the possibility for companies to use those resources. So before we say whether it's okay or not, we think it's fair to analyse the data, understand what happened concretely, what are the companies that applied and those that didn't confirm the application, and therefore didn't proceed to the recruitment despite having booked, and on the basis of this reasoning understand even if the requirements that have been determined from the regulatory point of view have been hindered, in some form, to the full use. So, an evaluation today that is still on its way, but that we intend to develop. Of course, if we were convinced of the need to change the rules or reprogram the resources, this would lead us to move in that direction because we think that this is the right way to deal with the issues. There is one final issue that I would like to address, which concerns the relationship between employment agencies, i.e. private services, private-social services and the public, on active policies and employment services. We think that we must work towards a collaboration, a commitment of all these subjects, as far as possible, first and foremost with a competitive capacity. For example, the Youth Guarantee Plan provides for a result-based payment, i.e. the persons involved in the placement of young people will be paid because they actually receive a placement. In the same way, a difference of assessment has been introduced compared to the fact that a person who has a difficult placeability is placed, because he has a problematic subjective characteristic, and other subjects that are more easily placed on the market. Therefore, a grid of characteristics has been built that makes the public do their job best - we want to qualify the public; we want to restructure it in the logic of active policies - but, alongside the public that restructures and oversees its function, we think it is entirely justified and fair that the employment agencies and the individuals who intervene in the private-social side are put in a position to do so, because, only by the ability to co-act these objects and by their ability to match the need for work of young people and the opportunities that are represented by companies, this type of outcome can be produced. So, it is quite clear that this road for us... president. Unfortunately, Minister, you should come to the conclusion. Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. From this point of view, if I can make a general statement, our intention is, in an absolutely radical way, to move from passive policies to active policies, and to do so we think that the construction of a National Labour Agency is the precondition, that is, the need to have a technical infrastructure, operational, capable of acting in the transition between passive and active policies. From this point of view, there is one final point, on which we are working, which is the need to have a computer infrastructure, i.e. a single database, which allows passive policies to coexist with active ones. Today the database is for INPS with regard to the Integration Fund and everything else, and we do not have unique databases on active policy issues. If we do not let active and passive policies speak together, we will not face and resolve our problems. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u31	Parent (PD). Madam President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply, particularly on the subject of Youth Guarantee. I am very comforted when the Minister says that a national direction of this issue is being implemented, and I believe that this is the way forward. I am also very pleased with the Minister's determination to set up the National Agency for Work on the German model and, as he said, of a database to keep passive and active policies together, which is the real novelty of this draft law delegation. Finally, I am very encouraged by the monitoring that the Ministry is implementing on the implementation of the rules, especially on expenditure and resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u34	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Minister, you can absolutely appreciate the goodwill, but today, unfortunately, it is not enough: today we need to give real employment, and all the instruments put in place to date have translated into very few jobs. Rather, look more closely at companies, to which today must go the real active policies and which require absolutely more incentives, tax relief and more accessible credits: I believe that only in this way can our young people feel less humiliated and think of staying in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u37	CATALFO (M5S). Minister, the system that has been presented to us, even in the draft law delegation, is still nebulous and rather confused; moreover, new meetings with the German Minister are expected, so there is still no confidence in what should be the structure of the reform in Italy (and we are in full examination of the draft law delegation). Once again, therefore, the parliamentary committees cannot be aware of or plan together, in a constructive debate, the future reform of work in Italy, since since 1997 has been trying to make it clear. With regard to Youth guarantee (Youth Guarantee), the data relating to first access, first reception and first registration were communicated, but three months after its implementation we do not know what the match was, namely what other actions were provided to young people, beyond those mentioned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, please, Senator Catalfo. CATALFO (M5S). I have many other things to say, Madam President, but I shall end by saying that... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u40	MANCUSE (NCD). Minister, since I had asked you a specific question, but - also because of a lack of time, I realize - I had to try to extrapolate the answer from your speech, let me reiterate the concept of the usefulness of vouchers. We understand how this system fits into the types of ancillary work, therefore with limits and distances from the contract indefinitely, but in this particular moment of serious employment crisis, Minister, vouchers can be a tool at the disposal of the employer whose abuses it is clearly necessary to control, but which can be useful to give immediate answers to the large number of unemployed people looking for work desperately.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u43	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, I find it difficult to say that I am satisfied with the answers. It seems to me that the organization of employment services throughout the country, but in a particular way in regions with greater suffering, is still on the high seas, that the law of delegation in itself will not be a solution and that it refuses once again to impose the policies of work - especially active ones - on the values and local resources, as well as on the productive traditions found in the various territories. In this sense, however, the whole system should be revitalised, experimenting with self-management by stakeholders for work services. It is not the enterprise that does the job, but the work that gives birth to the enterprise: it is necessary to reverse the reasoning in this country, in order not to meet the negative results to which we are unfortunately going.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u46	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Mr. Minister, your answer does not satisfy us. Let us remember that, if we do not proceed to the reorganization of those inefficient structures, the establishment of a new National Agency will prove to be another wheelchair. We have tabled a number of amendments to the bill of delegation jobs act which tend to reward employment-creating centres, such as "remuneration as a result of services": this is a functional criterion aimed at the development and qualification of public services. Other suggestions include the abolition of those centres which have not placed or relocated at least a percentage of workers and the amalgamation of the structure and its staff to the nearest territorial centres. Minister, one part of the country is tired of paying for the other, which continues to waste: if we want to fill a tub, let's remember to put the cap first.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u49	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I would like to thank you for your satisfactory response to the two points relating to the Youth Guarantee and the dual system of apprenticeship, and I congratulate you on the initiative planned for September. The answer on the issue of apprenticeship in public employment was unfortunately not given to me, but perhaps the implementing decree provided for in Legislative Decree no. 167 of 2011.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u52	ICHINO (SPI). Minister, I note with satisfaction the promise of the forthcoming adoption of the Regulation of the Fund for Active Policies, stressing the importance (not only with regard to this case, i.e. to the testing of the relocation contract) that organic reform is preceded by a fair trial phase. The trial and go method is essential for the success of the reforms and we have today (but only if the regulation really comes out soon) the possibility to precede a few months of regional experimentation, but also, for example, an experimentation, on the ground of the problem of Alitalia's redundancies, an instrument that can prefigure what we are working on in the design of the delegation law. For this reason, I hope that the words follow, as is due, the facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u53	Let us now turn to questions concerning the discipline and financing of social shock absorbers, which will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Policy Poletti. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u56	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, Minister, the figures published a few days ago by ISTAT show a slight increase in the unemployment rate in Italy in May: the percentage is increasing compared to April and half a point up compared to 2013. It is true, however, that these data are articulated, on which one should reflect, which testify - again - a slight improvement compared to the first months of the year. These figures show that, if women's employment falls, it increases by 0.6 per cent in May, while men's employment increases by 0.6 per cent; whereas, on the one hand, it increases the percentage of unemployed, on the other, it also demonstrates greater public confidence in the search for employment. The real point is that ISTAT still tells us that the economy of our country is struggling to restart and even fears a return of recession from the end of June. In this context, despite your concern, the statements made by you, Minister, I imagine not surprisingly, two days ago, to one of the largest national newspapers about the lack of EUR 1 billion to ensure sufficient resources to cover the so-called shock absorbers by way of derogation (i.e. integration fund and mobility by way of derogation, specifically). They, although to be reconceived, as the Government is properly trying to study, first of all with the draft law delegation on work, will certainly still represent, for not short time, the only form of income for thousands of workers in our country. For this reason, I ask you what are the paths and commitments that the Government and the Minister of Labour feel to follow and assume, in the mores of an organic reform, to ensure the resources necessary to cover the demands of shock absorbers by way of derogation for 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u59	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, a company that requires the use of social shock absorbers for its workers does not intend to close down, but it has only a momentary difficulty, during which the Integration Fund represents concrete support for workers and their families. The great increase in the extraordinary integration fund in the first five months of 2014 makes us understand that the economic and productive crisis is increasingly serious and heavy. We believe that after putting in place 6.5 billion for the IRPEF bonus of 80 euros, the government must immediately find adequate resources for social shock absorbers. From your recent statements, Minister, we learn that today there is still a billion and more to finance the integration fund by way of derogation from 2014. We are faced with a real social emergency, but you think it is possible to allocate the resources at the end of the year, with the next law of stability, and the Government does not foresee any corrective manoeuvre. All this said, we ask you: how and in what time does the Government intend to find the resources still missing for this year's integration fund? Finally, if the Minister does not consider coordination with the Undersecretary Delrio for the use of part of the Community's resources to cover the costs referred to in the Social Shock Absorbers, the Minister does not consider it appropriate. I would like a clarification in the final analysis to see if the 80 euro bonus is also for those who have entered the integration fund and have no working periods in 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u62	PUGLIA (M5S). Good morning, Minister; my speech is aimed at getting some clarification on the real idea of social shock absorbers that the Government has in mind. In fact, in the Act of the Senate 1428, which we are discussing in the Commission work, there are very vague indications about the future system of social shock absorbers you programmed. There is a generality that goes well beyond that physiologically linked to the typology of the law delegation: it has probably wanted a delegation in white. I then take advantage of his presence to ask what mechanism of operation you have thought of. Do you have in mind a mutual system or a system of private insurance, in which the more you pay, the more you receive or vice versa (and maybe they are always the last)? However, regardless of the answer to the previous question, there is another question: do you have any confidence in the expenditure involved in this semi-mysterious system of social shock absorbers and, above all, what will be the coverage? I ask you why we of the 5 Star Movement already on February 19, 2014, with the act of inspection union 2-00124, at the first signature of Senator Blundo, have presented an urgent question, in which we have found that the appropriations made available by the Government for the financing of the IGC by way of derogation of the year 2013 were not sufficient to cover all the requests, asking at the same time to know how many of these had remained unused due to the insufficient resources allocated in the financial years 2013-2014. We also asked if the government was planning to intervene to ensure that this 2013 requirement was met. To date, all these questions have remained unanswered. Then I propose them again today: maybe I'll be luckier.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u65	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam President, Minister, my question is in line with the previous one and refers to the latest ISTAT data which, unfortunately, confirm the social emergency of the many, too many excluded from the labour market. These are women, young people and men who struggle to resume their previous jobs. To protect income and, together, not to leave them alone in active job search, what are you going to do? The Government has presented a draft delegation law, which I hope will translate into boldly innovative delegated decrees with respect to all the institutions that the system is currently equipped with, starting with that of the Workers' Statute which has now reached 44 years. In the meantime, in these hours and these days, how does the Government intend to ensure adequate resources for the so-called shock absorbers by way of derogation that Minister Sacconi has introduced about five years ago? A sure commitment and guaranteed by secure and well-defined resources is essential to secure an income for this vast crowd of workers who are involuntarily in a situation of unemployment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u68	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Madam President, Minister, about a year and a half after the granting of the IGC for the advanced restructuring of Melfi, I am aware that FIOM-CGIL Basilicata, following reports made by some workers, has asked several meetings of the competent supervisory bodies to carry out checks on rotation at work and training plans, in order to start a comparison on the criteria that are carried out, since the reports would result in unfair rotation and, at times, almost absent. To date, I do not know that there have been any answers. I also find this to be serious because this Government is talking a lot about active policies at work. Moreover, I understand that in many regions of Italy workers who should benefit from social shock absorbers by way of derogation have not received the cheque for about seven months now and that, in addition to the damage, they will receive the mockery of figures even smaller due to the lack of deductions to be recovered on the 730 model. I therefore ask you, Minister, how much is the total allocation for 2014 and what will be the distribution between the regions, with dates and articulations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u71	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Minister Poletti, in an interview with the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" a few days ago you said that resources for the integration fund are alarmed, because in 2014 you had to use the resources allocated to refinance the fund by way of a 2013 derogation, which would otherwise have been discovered. Now you see that there is a billion missing, which translates into 50,000 workers at risk. In another article, published last April 24 in the daily newspaper "Il Mattino" in Padova, the lack of 125 million to cover the fund in derogation in Veneto is mentioned. The article amounts to 12,000 workers interested in mobility by way of derogation in 2013, to whom only half of the planned allowance has been paid, while there is currently no coverage for about 31,000 workers potentially involved in the more than 6,500 applications for cash integration by way of derogation in these early months of 2014. It would be necessary, according to the unions, 125 million euros, of which 90 million only in order to pay the mobility allowances in derogation of 2013, and another 35 million euros in order to meet the applications of Cassa Integrazione in derogation received from the Veneto Region on the date of 18 April last. We ask you in what terms the Government considers to be urgently finding new and additional resources to cover the cash requests by way of derogation, without however resorting to new taxation, waiting for the importance of social shock absorbers by way of derogation as the only form of income support in favour of employees of enterprises excluded from the general legislation on social shock absorbers, especially in this period of great economic crisis that has hit small and medium-sized enterprises hard, foundation of our economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u74	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Autonomous Province of Trento and the social partners have so far used the State's resources for shock absorbers as a derogation from the latest decrees with great care. The total amount allocated to the Province of Trento during the years 2013 and 2014 amounts to approximately 11 million euros. At the date of June 16, 2014, the amounts still available amounted to € 2,337,000. The positions relating to the year 2013 have already been cleared and treatment with regard to the first half of the current year has been authorised. Pending the decree issued by Decree-Law of 21 May 2013, n. 54, with agreement with the social partners, the use of residual resources in relation to the second half of 2014, has been regulated, always with a view to identifying the situations most deserving of protection in respect of the available resources: so, criteria have been defined abundantly consistent with the time limits provided for in the draft of such decree for the granting of shock absorbers by way of derogation. It is estimated, however, that the current remaining resources are not sufficient to cover the needs for the current year, with regard both to applications already submitted and not yet authorised and to those which will be received by the end of the year. In view of the unfortunately uncomfortable trend in the number of applications for shock absorbers by way of derogation, the need for additional financial resources for a total amount of EUR 6 million is considered. Since the draft of the next decree of attribution turns out that the state resources, pairs to 400 million euros, will be assigned only to cover the residual needs of 2013, the Province of Trento would in fact be excluded. The consequence seems to be that the fact of being particularly virtuous in the management of allocated resources then penalises in the further distribution. Precisely in this perspective, i.e. not to penalise the most virtuous, it is asked whether the next decree of distribution of resources is intended exclusively for the coverage of residues 2013 and whether it is not possible to include also the Regions and autonomous Provinces that do not have slopes on 2013, but present current need on 2014; and, in case of negative answer to the previous question, if and when is in anticipation a further decree of distribution of resources and what are the resources that are expected to allocate for 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u77	ICHINO (SPI). Madam President, Minister, in the ten years before the great crisis, from 1998 to 2007, the management of the ordinary and extraordinary Cassa Integrazione (Integration Fund) has had a very strong budget activity in a structural and permanent way: against revenues of around 4 billion, benefits of less than 1 billion. This constituted that contribution around 3% (2.9 percent for companies up to 50 employees and 3.2 percent for companies over 50 employees) as a real tax on manufacturing work. Now if, as is provided for in the draft law on labour delegation, the integration fund is rightly and appropriately destined to be brought back to its original function, and therefore also reduced in the volume of its activity, and if, as is also provided for in the draft law delegation to which we are working, the criterion of management of the integration fund will have to be essentially insurance, then a criterion that tends to the balance between benefits and contributions, should this not lead to drastically reducing that 3%, that tax on manufacturing work? This seems to me to be the consequence of the principles that we want to apply. I realize there's a problem here. It is true that we must return to a situation of normality after the crisis, but also from that point of view, that asset was put on the balance sheet to cover other liabilities. Not knowing the solution, I pose the problem of how we want to achieve a truly insurance relationship and therefore a reduction in the burden on the contributory wedge, which is decidedly inappropriate in its present size. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Poletti, together for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u78	Madam President, I think it is worth a few moments to think about the general situation in employment. It is clear that our country is experiencing a moment of great difficulty, we come from a phase where many jobs have been lost, the situation is today at a stage that gives some sign of diversity: I think it would be worth evaluating all these elements in a timely manner. I say this because the data of the last ISTAT report opened up with an interesting and positive statement, from my point of view, that there are 52,000 more people in our country. When I read the Italian newspapers the next day, I discovered that the problem is - rightly - the negative record of women's unemployment and other factors. I think it is right to look at them all: first of all, the positive figure of 52,000 more jobs, because it means that there are 52,000 Italians who have jobs, and I believe that this is an important and positive figure. We should also always bear in mind that the ISTAT data on unemployment is made up of two components: people who lose or do not have a job and people who are active in job search. There is a fact that is contradictory in itself: when a citizen is distrusted and does not seek work, he is not unemployed; when the same regains confidence in the possibility of finding a job and becomes active, he becomes technically unemployed. In fact, the numbers tell us that the unemployment rate has increased, but to a large extent for people who were not looking for work before and now are looking for it. We need to have a careful consideration of this fact, which does not attenuate at all the dramatic problematicity of the situation of the employment of young people, women and people in our country; but we cannot even read in negative the elements that are potentially positive. I believe that we must reconsider these data in terms of the timely evaluation of the elements, which are very worrying and dramatic, but they must also be seen from another perspective. In fact, if less than 0.1 is a drama and more than 0.3 we don't notice it, it means that we have two rather strange ways of looking at numbers. I would like to consider the numbers all with the same measurement criterion, positive and negative, because Italy also needs confidence. If we continue to shape a situation that cannot change, we certainly do not help change. Compared to the theme of social shock absorbers that you have proposed, I would start from a general fact: our country used (and we discussed it in the previous point) quantitatively and absolutely decisively passive residues and income support, but it did not produce active policies. We need a transition, which the bill of delegation tries to draw, building an infrastructure for active policies. Otherwise, we will make declamations, saying that we need active policies, but if we do not have the tools to make them, they will remain empty declamations. We therefore need to build the instruments, and at the same time we need to change the rules and logics. The delegation law provides for a modification of the social shock absorbers, with the maintenance of the integration fund for corporate crisis, for temporary difficulties or restructuring of the company; This tool will therefore continue to be active. We then imagined, with the new ASPI, a universal tool that covers the citizens who lose their jobs. Here too we have to overcome a fiction: there are still too many situations where people who are statistically employed are connected to companies that have died. The problem that we will face in 2014 is the poisonous tail of a crisis that will photograph the outcomes of companies that have "jumped" three or four years ago; but the people connected to those enterprises today are statistically occupied because covered by shock absorbers. Sooner or later those shock absorbers, inevitably (because they cannot be eternal), will end and at that time these people will become statistically unemployed. There is a discrasia of times between the moment of the crisis and the moment of the registration of unemployment. We will face the same problem in the production of new jobs. It is quite clear, in fact, that a production system within the crisis reduces the employment of plants. Even if there is a productive recovery and demand, before we can register new jobs, we will have the saturation of the plants. Here too, therefore, there will be a time gap between the increase and the economic recovery and the resulting employment figure. We need to know that the data is staggered for this reason, present in all crises and in all post-crisis situations. The issues we need to address in the reform that we want to do, therefore, are: social shock absorbers to overcome the corporate crisis and for the restructuring of the company and a tool to protect when you lose your job. There is a problem downstream: what happens when a person inevitably finds himself without a social shock absorber but is socially unable to move forward, why doesn't he have sufficient income? This is the problem of this country, which has never built social policies and which, in the face of social problems, has often used inappropriate tools: when there is a crisis in a sector, for example, the disability pension is used, but it is not the instrument to cope with a situation of work crisis; if, however, there is nothing else, one ends up using an improper instrument. It is necessary to build parameters and achieve an organic arrangement that provides that, when the coverage of social shock absorbers and active policies ends, they have not produced the result of determining new job opportunities, if one is in a situation of critical income, in that situation social income is involved, a tool of protection when there is no other possibility. I believe that this is the issue that we have before us and that we must address. Compared to this issue, there are some issues that need to be addressed on the basis of the questions you have asked me. We work for a universal dimension of this intervention. As regards the necessary resources, from the analyses carried out so far, with a different use of the instruments already used today (unemployment benefit, ASPI, solidarity funds), we are able not to cover 100%, but rather to get close to full coverage of the new configuration. If we move a share of the resources now allocated to passive policies to cover that differential we will be able, considering the share that we already dedicate to you today and the share of redistribution of those resources, to cover that figure. There is also a problem with the coverage quotas of individual companies in relation to the cost of shock absorbers. The history of our country shows us segments, like industry, that have incurred very high costs to cover the fund integration alongside other segments of the economy and some types of companies that have not borne costs, but start to do so now with the solidarity funds and other initiatives that are being put in place. It is clear that we will have to find a point of compensation between the insurance and mutual dimension, so to speak, because only with a proper mix from this point of view will we be able to have a sustainable and efficient regime. Our logic on the issue of costs wants to go, as indicated in the delegation, towards a fairer situation. Today we have an equal cost for all businesses. The contribution of the industry sector, is that for which a company, whether or not using the integration fund, pays that contribution. But if this is the logic, there is obviously a mechanism whereby one enterprise structurally gets used to using the integration fund, while another does not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Minister, please come to the conclusion, because we are not able to go much further. Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Our idea is to provide for a mechanism by which the fixed contribution is reduced, standard for all companies and introduces a relative cost for those who use the Integration Fund, so that there is an element of greater fairness and equity between those who pay to those who use the instrument. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u81	ANGIONES (PD). Minister, I am pleased with your reply. In addition and briefly, I think we can agree that never as in this season the destiny of relaunching our companies is also linked to the fate of their workers. To restart the economy means, of course, to restart the investments, but today in Italy it means first of all to restart the domestic consumption, and these start again with a situation of greater confidence and serenity on the part of the citizens, both those who work, but also those who have lost the job. From this point of view it is essential that the State never leaves alone, as in other seasons, the citizens who have lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u84	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, thank you for your speech, but I would have liked you to reassure me a little more confidently and conveniently all the thousands of workers who do not know whether they will receive the supplementary fund by 2014. That was the very precise question I asked because I represent the concern of these workers. Today thousands of families are already living in discomfort. We know that this is not a remedy: it is only a way to survive. We would like the Cassaintegrati to return to work again, but in the meantime, the Government and Prime Minister Renzi must understand that this is a real priority: it is important that you send this message to Prime Minister Renzi. This is a real priority today!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u87	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, Minister, I am not at all satisfied. In particular, we have not yet received an answer to the questioning under abbreviated procedure 2-00124, submitted on 19 February 2014. We have an idea of the social state based on justice and fairness and today families are the first social shock absorber. Well, you have spoken of social income; someone, perhaps in the Commission, has spoken of guaranteed minimum income, minimum income for inclusion, universal income; we have talked about citizenship income: let us call it what we want, the important thing is to make sure that we introduce this system, which we have proposed with regard to the draft law delegation, and therefore we hope that Italy will finally be able to equip itself with it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). I should like to conclude by reminding myself first of all that this is not an idle income, but an active measure of income support and of combating poverty, as can be seen from a careful reading of the rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u90	MANCUSE (NCD). Minister, I am not completely convinced, but hopeful in the commitments you have made, although I repeat to you that the emergency is such as not to allow slowness or restrained - this is our concern - by ideological taboos and outdated and anachronistic cultures, where the most becero conservatism prevails. Everything changes and therefore our labour market must also change, which is so much the son of the old policy inspired by the old class conflict. So what we are asking you for is more courage and we wish you good work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u93	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I cannot be satisfied, partly because I have not received any reply. I'm sorry. Minister, I invite you not to underestimate the social hardship of this country, because I remind you that, as I will never tire of saying, the integration fund by way of derogation, workers do not ask for it, they suffer it. The only positive thing is that what was previously considered a crime, talking about minimum income of guaranteed citizenship, now I feel that it also comes from the government. Let us at least welcome this change, in the hope that we will take action in this respect seriously.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u96	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Minister, I consider myself not only dissatisfied with your answer, but also extremely disappointed. If I consider his previous jobs, I notice that he has been city council member for the productive activities of a very important Province such as that of Bologna, president of Legacoop regional and national vice president, as well as president of Ephesus for eight years. I thought that such experience in the world of production and work was good baggage to help solve the many problems that our fellow workers are facing, but not. You too, like the vast majority of the members of this Government, who have just arrived here, who come from Bocconi or cooperatives, forget who works and, in this case, who has lost their jobs. Think of solving the problem with a simple phrase, such as "there are no resources," which translated means: "sort yourselves." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Munerato. MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). With what courage you, Minister, return to your red Emilia and say to your fellow citizens: The Renzi Government, which you supported well in the last elections, sends you to say: arrange yourselves, brothers and sisters, before you there is the operation Mare nostrum and thousands of so-called refugees!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u99	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, your answer reassures me of how this Government intends to distinguish and encourage more active labour policies and I agree with you on this point. You also spoke of the need to distinguish and not to approve all interventions and all subjects. I therefore ask you, given the specific case of the Autonomous Province of Trento, that those who have used their resources correctly and managed them wisely should not be penalised in the new allocations for 2014. I therefore ask you to take into account those who have no slopes and, vice versa, have real and concrete needs for this year's closure, which actually also sees in our Province a situation of occupational emergency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u102	ICHINO (SPI). Mr Minister, I note that the problem I raised remains open, but I did not expect that we could solve it here. For the rest, I fully agree with the approach you are giving to the problem of the reform of social shock absorbers, convinced as I am that the cost of the serious abuse of the integration fund that has been done in recent years, but also before, lies not so much and only in the cost of what is paid to the worker, that is, in the provision to the worker, but in the expulsion from the labour market of human resources that are put in freezers, frozen and are not helped or stimulated to return to the productive fabric. This is a cost that is not accounted for anywhere but which then weighs on the national economy, as much and perhaps more than it weighs the cost accounted for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u103	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Poletti for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u104	On 2 July 2014, the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber of Deputies appointed members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and related environmental offences, as referred to in Law No. 1 of 7 January 2014. The list of members will be published in the Annex to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Commission is convened for its constitution on Thursday 10 July 2014, at 2.30 p.m., in the Hall of the 4th floor of Palazzo San Macuto, in Via del Seminario.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u105	On 2 July Mr Sandro Gozi resigned from office as President of the Italian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Italian Delegation is convened for the election of its President on Thursday 10 July, at 14.30, at the headquarters of Palazzo Valdina, Sala Sopra Chiesa.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u106	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-274.ana.u107	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Wednesday 9 July, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.
