ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u3	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the story of the two rifles of Marina Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have ten minutes available. I call the Foreign Minister, Dr Bonino.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr President, Tuesday, two days ago, in front of the Joint Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence of the House and the Senate, I had reported that I had built solid solidarity within the European Union and that I have opened - I quote - a channel that we hope will mature quickly both in NATO and in the United Nations, always taking into account that it is not so obvious to have international solidarity. In fact, in the European context, this unit reconfirmed itself yesterday with the new speech of the High Representative Catherine Ashton, after that of President Barroso, in front of the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs and was also confirmed by the two letters that the High Representative sent yesterday to both the Indian Foreign Minister Khurshid and the National Security Advisor. As far as NATO is concerned, we had yesterday the Secretary-General's re-confirmation of our concerns and alarms regarding the impact that the affair of our two maroons can have on the entire installation of anti-piracy operations. So, the answer always given on Tuesday to a journalist by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, according to which it would be preferable to discuss bilaterally the issue of Marina's rifles, rather than with the involvement of the UN, although not new in substance, has raised us great regret and great doubts. The Secretary-General's reaction has certainly mechanically followed the tradition of the United Nations approach in cases of judicial dispute between two Member States, perhaps giving precedence to this reaction a misconceived concern of equidistantity between two important members of the United Nations with respect to the due attention to the legal and principle issues raised by Italy. But the point is that HER Act, or the use of HER Act as a facility for the head of charge, has significantly altered the terms of the matter. Let me point out in this regard - and I do so with all the respect that Italy brings to the United Nations system and that it has always seen me personally at the forefront in its defence - that, in a case like this and at this point, it is a dispute between States that is irrelevant truth. And the reason seems clear to me: there are many conventions on terrorism signed in the UN and there are also resolutions of the Security Council on the basis of the ongoing anti-piracy operations, which we participate in and which our Maroons participated in. These resolutions and conventions are based not only on the shared need to effectively conduct the fight against piracy and terrorism, but also on the no less important need to prevent abuses and divergent interpretations of the definition of "terrorism" or "terrorist." There is often a generous, if not abusive, use of these notions; and it is good that there is multilateral surveillance of the way in which national legislation is interpreted and applied in this area. Moreover, we are no longer alone in evokeing these concerns. The European Union, following the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday, has taken action to support Italy in the face of the threat of abuse of a legal framework that risks endangering the entire international action against piracy. From this point of view too, the Secretary-General's reaction seems to me to be welcome, because on this particular point it is no longer a matter of divergence or dispute between two members of the United Nations, but of a critical mass of states, including four members of the Security Council (two permanent members), which raises a problem of fundamental principle. And it is from these considerations that yesterday, on my precise instruction, our ambassador had a meeting with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Our ambassador expressed the concern of the Government, Parliament, all the institutions and the Italian people, publicly shared by the European Union and NATO, about the negative impact that possible enforcement of the anti-terrorist law could have on the fight against piracy. The Secretary-General has paid attention to what our representative has said, expressing concern about the possible application of his Act. On yesterday's evening I then had a personal contact with the Secretary General to reiterate our concern. I have gained an understanding and assurance of your subsequent action against the Indian authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Italy has consistently argued that the issue of riflemen transcends the scope of bilateral relations, because it concerns respect for international law, including the principles of freedom of navigation, exclusive jurisdiction of the flag State, immunity of agents performing official functions representing sovereign States and the commitment of the international community to the fight against piracy. In fact, I repeat that our riflemen were part of an anti-piracy mission in accordance with international law, the relevant decisions of the UN Security Council and the Italian legislation implementing the international anti-piracy discipline, as the Government has stated in international fora. For our part, therefore, the legitimacy of the jurisdiction of the Indian judges has always been contested and it has been argued on several occasions that the same is exercised in violation of the UN Conventions on the International Law of the Sea and the customary rules on the functional immunity of the organs of the State. It is precisely on these notes that, after the application of its Act, we have further raised our pressure on the onusian body and, while since January we wanted to represent also the aspect of human rights with our action towards the High Commissioner, Mrs Pillay, with whom I remain in contact and which I will meet again shortly in Geneva, starting from the profiling of its Act we have carried out a strong action, convinced as we are that this element totally transcends the bilateral sphere. Among other things, a coordination meeting was also held in New York yesterday at the level of the 28 countries of the European Union, which was promoted following a telephone interview with my Greek counterpart, Venizelos, the President-in-Office of the European Union. Full membership and unconditional solidarity emerged from the meeting and it was agreed to make a new démarche on Ban Ki-moon as a matter of urgency, to be carried out by the European Union delegation, Greece and by us in the next few hours. It is clear that the type of pressure exerted both bilaterally and multilaterally will also be assessed and weighted in the light of the findings of the hearing on 18 February next. The High Representative will still be in New York tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts so far. I believe that everyone is faced with the delicacy and complexity of the situation. But I would like to remind everyone that today the bilateral issue called for is no longer at all: today we have achieved the involvement of the European Union and NATO. It is no longer, it can no longer be a relationship confined to bilateral disputes, because fundamental principles of the rule of law are at stake, the application of the anti-terrorist conventions and two Security Council resolutions which have authorised both the Ocean Shield operation and the operation of the European Union Atalanta. We will continue on this path, convinced as we are that our priority obligation, however the operations in the months and in the previous years, is to restore to Italy the dignity of our two maròs. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI, SCPI, and Misto-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u5	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the Senate of the Republic did, on yesterday's occasion, beyond some easy criticism which is addressed above all by those who have characteristics of institutional illiteracy, an act of great seriousness in suspending the examination of the bill of conversion of the decree-law on Italian participation in military missions of peace. We are not, in fact, a country that can, in front of the odyssey of two soldiers, who for two years, without a precise charge, are forced on Indian soil, continue to pretend not to see. Mr President, I should like to make it clear to you that I believe it is irresponsible to turn foreign policy into a kind of muscular test of our events in Italian politics. In the same way, I find it irresponsible to make foreign policy with statements, so to speak, extemporaneous, with blackmail, with jokes. Moreover - I think our Minister for Foreign Affairs - one thing must be clear: this country has for too long pretended not to see. This country has for too long pretended to be able to address this issue as if the rules of the rule of law were respected Anglo-Saxonly by our Indian partner. This is not the case, and this is a realization that we must do and have done in recent months and that - I say this sincerely - I hope that the Government has finally done, not so much in the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Defence (among other things I very much share the symbolic mission of our Minister of Defence in these days in New Delhi), because they are in the foreground on this matter: it is the Italy system that must take responsibility for how we are treated in the international community. Allow me, Minister Bonino: we were a little surprised because at the hearing two days ago you said the words you said, namely that we could count on a solid co-responsibility of the European Union (and we saw the statements by Barroso and Ashton), then NATO (and we saw it, because something is moving on that side too) and we also trusted in a sort of greater attention of the United Nations. We are not a common country. Sometimes, in fact, in the general underestimation that we have, we also think that we are a "country" that can be treated by kicking in the butt (sorry). We are among the first contributors, among the Western countries perhaps the second, in terms of the military engaged in the missions of peace. We are among the top ten net contributors to the United Nations system and until recently we were permanently the fifth or sixth. It is not possible, then, that after two years the UN Secretary-General will come to us to propose the classic thesis that this is a bilateral problem between Italy and India. Are we crazy? What have we done in these two years, when we have always been told that we had explained and re-explained (and also convinced the United Nations system) the fact that this was an internationalized issue in itself? In fact, regarding the participation of soldiers in international peace missions, this could not be reduced to a bilateral issue between Italy and India. This gentleman, plastically - and I really need to think very seriously about the effectiveness of the United Nations system, which in other circumstances has given bad proof of himself: but I am a convinced multilateralist, and I do not want to be taken by the emotion of the moment - has come out candidly, explaining that we hope for a resolution of the dispute in bilateral terms. Do you hope? After two years, without these gentlemen having even formulated some sort of precise charge? Not only that: after it has been reiterated the application of its Act, albeit, thanks to the Indians and their magnanimity, for an accusation of violence and not of murder, to these two military? But how? A HIS Act applied to military personnel engaged in missions undertaken by the United Nations? And it is hoped that the dispute can be resolved bilaterally between Italy and India. This is crazy! This is crazy! I repeat: we are in madness, and this is a very serious problem, on which it was right to involve the Senate of the Republic. We are a rule of law. If there is no rule of law elsewhere, this still is, or at least should be. Here are Parliament, the Government and a clear distinction of powers. Then we must tell the government, even in support of its action, that there are limits beyond which we are no longer willing to go. On these issues we want to be in solidarity with the Government. Personally, I would like to make it clear that, on the day that our two soldiers return to national soil, I will make a request to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because on this matter too many have been the inadequacys, too many contradictions, too much confusion and too many underestimations! [[Applause from the PI and FI-PdL Group XVII]] But it is a problem of tomorrow, not today, and certainly it is not - I want to say it clearly - the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is working at this time as far as she can. In fact, if we had higher powers, it is clear that we would have solved this issue already. So, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to continue and go any further. I say that we in the Foreign Affairs Committee will continue, together with the Defence Commission, to monitor this matter. Of course, we have tried to involve all the Members of this House in the context of the Interparliamentary Union, through a precise message explaining the matter, and we will do so in all international fora. Certainly we cannot think that, after two years, we are re-proposed of the thesis that contrast with the photography of the current reality. We are not allowed to do that. We may be wrong about litigation with a person, but we can't be fooled. And yesterday, the Secretary-General of the United Nations mocked our country. [[Applause from the PI,PD, FI-PdL XVII, SCpI and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u7	Senator Latorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you, Madam Minister, for the speed with which you have taken up your request. The timeliness with which you responded to us testifies that the Government is also aware of how delicate the passage that we are experiencing and how serious yesterday's statements by the Secretary-General of the United Nations have been. I very much appreciate the words you have mentioned here. If you will allow me, I would like to add a few comments to those just made by President Casini. I am referring to yesterday's reaction from the Senate of the Republic and our Commissions. I take the opportunity to say that we will not give up, even for a minute, our attention and our commitment until our gunmen have returned to Italy. That is what we want to say very clearly. Also the conversation between our representative and then, I believe, with her confirms that the initiative of the Senate was useful and appropriate. Moreover, it is not appropriate to retrace here all the history that we know well now - alas - but it is worth remembering that a series of UN resolutions have also taken place upstream of these anti-piracy missions and that the mission in which our gunmen were engaged (I would like to remind you, because there is some confusion about this), even if in a ship of a shipowner, it was European and had before it a resolution, No 1838 of October 2008, of the United Nations. It is therefore incomprehensible and unacceptable a statement such as the one made yesterday by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. I want to reiterate here the meaning of our request yesterday to suspend the discussion of the decree-law to extend international missions in order to resume it after listening to it. It is not intended to call into question our participation in international missions. That is absolutely not the end. Among other things, in the relevant Commissions we have completed the debate on this matter. We are preparing to hold a similar debate in this House and - I hope - to approve the measure, although I would like to say this very clearly, also because of the statements made by the Minister of Defence a few days ago - in the next decree-law on missions, if this problem is not resolved, we will ask for the part relating to anti-piracy missions to be definanced. It is not acceptable for this situation to continue. So, no vengeful retaliation, no hysterical attitude - as I read in some comments in the newspapers this morning - but, indeed, a very responsible attitude. I want, among other things, to take advantage of this speech to thank all the parliamentary groups, those of majority and those of opposition (Movement 5 Stars, Brothers of Italy, in addition to the Democratic Party and Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura), because a great national unity has been rebuilt: a value that the Government and the country have an interest in preserving for this story to have a good outcome. You, Mr Minister, recalled all the positions taken by international bodies which have widened the boundaries of solidarity around our country. We now expect this solidarity to become a concrete international initiative to resolve the problem. India is a great country, but at the moment it has a ruling class totally imprisoned in an electoral competition. But the times of the electoral competition cannot be the times of the solution to our problem: this must be clearly stated. Therefore, every concrete initiative that goes in that direction, not least that aimed at activating some UN headquarters (I am thinking, for example, of the Hamburg Sea Court). In other words, we need that to become the place where we can exalt an initiative and find a solution. Let me conclude, as well as renewing her thanks, by saying that the line of low profile we have held in these two years does not seem to me to have produced great results. The time will come when the work of these two years will take place, and I think we will also try to understand where the responsibilities lie. Certainly this is an issue that cannot be confined to bilateral relations, also because of the political reliability of that country at this time. Therefore, we need to intensify this work and not turn off the spotlight of our initiative. Let us not forget: it is at stake, first of all, the fate of two people, but it is also at stake the honour of our military and the dignity of our country, which this Parliament also has the moral duty, even before political, to defend. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVI, I M5S, and PI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u9	Colleghi, I address a greeting to the students of the Istituto tecnico economico stato Â"Roberto Valturio Â" in Rimini who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u11	Mr President, I understand what previous speakers have said about unity of intent and criticism of the UN's action as something that belongs to us without any doubt. I shall therefore not take up these issues again. Instead, I will move on to criticism, which must objectively be made, about the government's work in this period which has made the situation even more difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is true that there is a sort of pride here today, it is equally true that it could be expressed the next day, and it would have had meaning. After two years, meeting here and hearing speeches of this kind frankly appears at least hypocritical. In these two years, the government - first the one led by Professor Monti and then that of Enrico Letta - what did it think? That the Indians were doing discounts? Did you think that international missions could be refinanced when, when two soldiers sent on a mission are taken prisoner, the country that sent them does not even know how to defend them? Did we get there after two years? Well, it does not seem to me that this is something to boast about and to let run lightly. Mr Bonino, in our previous debate in this House we have also given you an opening of credit; however, credit does not have an infinite time, and above all it cannot be shown inadequate, as you have done in this period the diplomacy you have led and unfortunately - let us say this - also your figure. You can't get to the piece at the last moment, simply because media pressure and public opinion has become unsustainable: you have to do it because you believe in what you do. Italy, in terms of foreign policy, has not counted for too long: it doesn't count for anything on the North African scenario, and it hasn't counted for a long time for the mission in India. We have discovered and discover daily that under the table there were agreements on economic aspects for this or that interest, which, moreover, we do not even appear to have been protected; today, in fact, Italy cannot even boast significant economic orders from an entrepreneurial point of view with India. So, it's a debâcle on all fronts. The worst debâcle is to present in this House a request for the refinancing of international missions when the Secretary-General of the United Nations has even said that the issue between Italy and India does not concern him because it is their business. We, on the other hand, must refinance missions for which men are travelling around the world as if we were a nuclear superpower of those who showed the muscles in the 1960s, without being able to defend even the economic interests on the edge of the country, and leaving two people, sent on a mission, hostage of a state that is using them as a political tool. Minister for Foreign Affairs, this is not foreign policy. By the way, I understand your embarrassment in being here to represent, sitting in the chair where you are, a government that is no longer there. I hope, however, that this will be an example of what must not be done, because what Italy and its Ministry have done in this matter is the darkest page of Italian foreign policy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u12	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u13	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister who has been working on bringing the military home these days. The delicacy and complexity of the situation are before everyone's eyes, as is before everyone's eyes the fact that there are fundamental principles at stake. Of course we lay a pitiful veil on the mistakes of the past; it would be interesting to know who assumes the responsibility to have allowed Enrica Lexie, with the Italian maròs on board, who were on the high seas, to comply with the invitation of the Indian authorities to head to the port of Kochi. For two times, in addition, the soldiers returned to Italy: for Christmas license in 2012 and, later, to vote in the general elections. Here, too, it would be interesting to know why the obligation to prosecute has not been exercised for the first time and why a file has not been opened: is there no possibility of a crime? Are we not repeating that the two military are not subject to Indian law and it is up to the ordinary and military Italian judiciary to judge them? Also to confirm the fact that the two maròs do not enjoy any immunity from the Italian jurisdiction. The second time, then, there was also a clumsy attempt not to return them, ended up in a farce, because Italy gave in to the Indian threats against our diplomatic agent. Now we are chasing the weirdest proposals and there are those who propose muscular countermeasures, without explaining exactly what they consist of. Let's get this straight. As the Minister has said, after the application of his Act (which makes it clear that the act accused of the two Maroons, apart from any other consideration as to the truthfulness of the facts alleged by the prosecution, is obviously not classified as terrorism), it is clear that this element transcends the bicameral sphere. Therefore, it is good that the European Union has come on the field, that European solidarity has recovered; it is good that NATO has also reconfirmed its solidarity, just as we appreciate the initiative on the UN Secretary-General, who has allowed himself to go to certain statements, perhaps, precisely because of a misconceived concern for equidistantity, which can only raise in us regret and perplexity. But it is precisely the Secretary General of the United Nations, as Professor Ronzitti, says, the organ that must untangle the skein, because piracy is now constituted as a threat to peace or at least to the safety of maritime traffic. The Secretary-General can take advantage of the numerous precedents in which his predecessors have solved complex problems of judicial relations between States, precisely because fundamental principles of international law are at stake. I would add that a reflection on the international missions in which Italy participates has long been due. One of the historical constants that affect the orientations of our foreign policy is the condition of vulnerability and insecurity for our country that derives from its difficult geostrategic position in the Mediterranean. Winning asymmetrical, but necessary alliances (NATO, European Union), with stronger countries, Italy saw in its participation in common missions the price of participation in advantageous alliances, which allowed our country to achieve otherwise impossible goals. However, no serious foreign policy can continue to be based on the misuse of international missions as the only means of defending the rank of Italy in the world. International missions have become a surrogate of what is not but should be there: a clear and selective vision of our priorities in the world and of the various instruments to defend them. The problem is that all this is not exchanged - this is a necessary reflection - with the illusion that we can finally be disinterested in international security. More than other countries, Italy remains vulnerable and exposed on a geopolitical level: a line to Switzerland does not exist for us. For this reason too, because security around us will be European or not, Italy must remain a credible partner - therefore, muscle threats have no foundation - which can certainly reduce the old international burdens, but which will not be able to escape the new commitments that are emerging, economic and military, because these are the conditions for bringing the Maròs back home: the Union's joint initiative. That Italy can lock itself in is the farther away from the reality of this new century. For this reason, too, we will support the Minister's efforts and work to bring the military home. [[Applause from the SCPI and PI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for accepting this debate with the Senate and reassuring us with the energy we have heard in your words this morning. Speaking of the Maròs, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, I cannot but come back with my mind to the feeling that we have felt (of solidarity and total harmony, for the first time in the politics of this country) on the occasion of the mission made in New Delhi with the Foreign Commissions and Defense of Chamber and Senate. The feeling I brought with me, the human and emotional one, was the pride of being Italian. Our country - I have said it several times - still has simple and extraordinarily solid men for toughness and fidelity to the state they represent in that latitude. Latorre and Girone have shown that they are two brave boys, who live with extraordinary dignity the dramatic situation in which they have fallen, and Italy cannot and must not leave our military, true pride of our country. On the contrary, it must protect them now with absolute determination and must thank parts of the State, such as the Navy, which has been able to select and form military of such tempera, just as it must be grateful to Ambassador Mancini, a man of great capacity and true humanity (as we have seen in person), who plays, has played and will continue to play an excellent role. Having said that, as we know, we are facing a very complex situation. The two Marò's trial should have been celebrated in Italy, as the affair involves state bodies operating in the fight against piracy under the Italian flag and in international waters. It has not been possible, and we have been dealing with the slowness of Indian justice for two years now (the day after tomorrow, February 15th, there will be two unnecessary years spent in this unfortunate affair). To this day we are still faced with two unacceptable hypotheses. We await the hearing on 18 February; we are talking about applying the anti-terrorist law, the anti-piracy law, albeit lightened by the inhuman death penalty. But here, gentlemen, we are neither talking about pirates nor less than ever about terrorists; and finally Europe has also noticed that, through the words of the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy, Catherine Ashton, it has defined the situation as unacceptable since Italy, if this were the case, would be substantially seen as a terrorist country. Us? We who have international peace missions standing, who send our children abroad, risking even their precious life, to bring with conviction human rights where there is still no trace of it. Italy has 7,000 men engaged in 21 nations and 26 different missions and, by force of things, the affair of the two maroons will have to be linked to double knot with our international commitments. It is for this - as we said yesterday and reiterated today - that the words of the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon cannot please us; we do not like them at all. Here we are not talking about a bilateral issue between Italy and India: here we are talking about a situation in which any other country could have found itself, as brave as ours. The facts are needed today, Madam Minister. Solidarity is necessary, but it is not that, alone, that will allow us to bring our children home. We now need a determined international position of the European Union, of which we are a part; we need to touch a few keys dear to New Delhi, to this strange world of India; we need - as President Barroso said when the two Maroons were in real danger of the death penalty - to stop the ongoing negotiations for the free trade agreement with India. We need - and this is why Ban Ki-moon's words are unbearable - to question India's permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council. If Latorre and Girone are wrong, they'll pay. Let us not forget that there is a very serious accusation on them, wrongly or rightly: the murder of two fishermen who have been mistaken - perhaps - for pirates. But let's remember that the two of our military turns out to be investigated by the Public Prosecutor of Rome for the crimes of violated delivery aggravated and dispersal of objects of military armament. Assuming the felony of aggravated surrender, the military prosecutor intends to verify whether the use of the weapons by the two maroons has been correct or not. If Latorre and Girone are wrong, they will pay, but eventually they will have to pay here in their country. They have to pay by law, and the law doesn't foresee what's happening. The case must be transferred to the Italian judiciary because the event took place in international waters, on a ship flying the Italian flag and the two soldiers, members of the battalion San Marco della Marina, enjoy immunity from jurisdiction over foreign states as on official mission. An immunity that the Government and you, Madam Minister representing him here, must guarantee them. Otherwise, tomorrow, in their place, there could be any one of us, each of our children. If the laws cease to have value, none of us are safe anymore. Let's think about this every time we talk about the Maròs. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u16	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u17	Mr President, my speech will be very brief. Eleven months ago in the Chamber, which you still (if I remember correctly), did not preside over, the old President of the Council, speaking of the story of the two rifles, used these words (I quote): In the last few days a political dialogue with India has been launched and a path towards a rapid solution, whether negotiated or by judicial means. 11 months have passed and, despite the correct, correct and most appropriate pressure and diplomatic initiatives of our Minister for Foreign Affairs, we are faced with the much worse issue, just as all issues of international policy or internal politics are complicated when they go beyond the time when they could and should have been addressed. The point is that we are faced with a definitely changed scenario compared to a year ago, today much more complicated, of which, in my opinion, we can and must protect one fact above all: the internationalization and the tendency to make the matter, as it must be, a matter of course neither Italian nor bilateral. A few months ago, when we talked about our missions, and in particular about the mission to combat piracy, the UN, which recognizes it as a law enforcement mission, used the words 'contributed to international security'. If that is the view expressed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, it is directly and strongly contrary to the opinion of the Secretary-General himself expressed a few hours ago. One of my old professors of international relations - alive and well, if God wills, and God keeps it - in these cases, when he taught students right, he used to say two things: the issues that enchanted require decisions not faster (because otherwise they would not become complex, like a skein difficult to unravel with a certain speed) but sharp; one is obliged to be incisive especially when time is no longer the time to solve the issues themselves. I am firmly convinced of the proposal made yesterday in this House by President Casini and President Latorre. It is not a declaration of war against anyone: it is an assumption of responsibility and dignity of the Senate of the Italian Republic to ask for the suspension of our missions, to stop, to discuss them, without being subject to negotiation, but an institutional dignity. We cannot allow ourselves, in such cases as this, to prevail - as has always been the case since the night of centuries in foreign policy and international relations - for economic relations to win. There are cases where the national issue prevails over economic issues, and what we are dealing with here is exactly a national issue. As such, it must therefore be governed and managed and, as such, it does not exclude the need for a heavy burden to be placed on the table: in this case, the suspensive must not be excluded at all. [[Applause from Senators Laniece, Casini and Latorre.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u18	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u19	Madam Minister, I will also speak briefly, since over the course of these months I have had the opportunity to express my thoughts - and that of the Left Ecology and Freedom - on this matter which actually, day after day, becomes more and more dramatic and increasingly difficult. Of course, I too thank you, Madam Minister, for the work you are doing: I do not forget that, in addition to trying to give an answer on the affair of the Maroons, you have also done well in the case of Shalabayeva, which was particularly dear to us, just as I do not forget the important role you played in the Syrian crisis. I tell you this because I recognize you that you are trying - so to speak - to recover a real vulnus that has been in our country over the years. You see, Minister, unfortunately we are today paying for the poisoned fruits of the fact that for too many years we have been completely without a foreign policy. In the past years, when I was very young, I was a very strong political opponent of the first Republic, of the old pentaparty; at the time I was on the other side of the barricade, but I recognized that first Republic to have a foreign policy, to play a political role and to have an idea of what the role of our country should be, in particular in the events of the Mediterranean. Over the last twenty years I have seen that political role come less day after day. The political credibility of our country and the possibility for Italy to put in place an exercise in foreign policy have become completely less over the years. I therefore recognise the attempt you are trying to make, Minister, to reverse this trend. I think it is also right to try - as Senator Nencini has said even now, and I agree with him - to maintain at least two basic elements: on the one hand, the need for the crisis to be, precisely, internationalized and, on the other hand, the fact of strongly claiming that in this case it is not a bilateral problem, but a more complex problem. For these reasons, we agreed yesterday when President Casini and President Latorre in the Foreign Affairs Committee proposed that we give a strong signal in some way, even with regard to the possibility of suspending the judgment on missions. However, I would also like to say to you, Madam Minister, that for us the need to address this issue does not simply stem from the fact that the affair of the Maroons is under way. I think it would be much more serious if our country, involved in this dramatic issue, used it at least to say a little clearer words about what the Italian military missions have been all these years. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Albano]] I believe that, frankly, an unideological reflection, a fundamental reflection should be opened: probably the hundreds of thousands of people who for many years, alone, have paraded in the streets of this country to denounce what was happening, in reality, have indicated some very serious elements of reflection. And, if I have to say it all, I also think - and I really express our solidarity with the Maroons and their families - that the militaristic rhetoric we have heard over the past two years, particularly from some political forces, including within Parliament, has not helped the cause of the Maroons at all. In fact, I think it was a rhetoric that unfortunately put us in this difficult situation today. So, as a last consideration I want to make, I ask you: is it possible, starting from this - in this regard, Madam Minister, over the past months I have heard you say some encouraging words - to open a fundamental reflection on the issue of maritime piracy and how to put measures in place to combat it? Is it possible to modify anti-piracy legislation? Is it possible to imagine that Decree-Law No 107 of 2011, which probably does not specify the chain of command on board ships when a conflict between civil authorities and military authorities can be determined, is reviewed? Is it possible to approach this issue differently? Madam Minister, even though many shipping companies, so not simply my party and the sectors most sensitive to the questions that the pacifist movement is asking today, express great concern for the militarization of measures against piracy, also because this inevitably puts at risk the safety of the crews. So, I would like to ask you why, in addition to doing everything to resolve this issue, at the same time does not start a reflection, for example, on the methods that in other countries of the world are studied and imagined, on the hypothesis of passive defense, on the hypothesis of non militarization as an instrument of contrast? I think it should be done. Of course, I also think that we must give you confidence, Madam Minister, and try, all together, to engage in this work, because the affair of the Maroons concerns the whole of the national Parliament. But I also think that it would be very useful if this were a lesson for us, that is, the teaching that for too many years the choices we have made unfortunately put Italy today in a position to lose the credibility that it once had. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u21	Mr President, once again, an important matter such as that of the Maroons is being clouded by our internal issues, with our fellow Members, also given the lack of presence, more interested in what is happening outside than in what is happening in this House. Madam Minister, we have listened carefully to your communications on the affair of the two Maros and the reaction of solidarity to the two military and their families, in the hands of a government, the Italian one, with an international credibility equal to zero and an ability to manage the international issues embarrassing. Unfortunately, they were in the wrong place at the wrong time, when there were two governments one worse than the other. In two years the Italian governments have managed our military as postal packages, like two bags lost in India, then sent back to Italy, then abandoned again in India. An unprecedented international situation, especially if we are talking about two military. Two years in which the Italian Government, after having traded the dignity of our country with a promise of economic order from the Indian Government, then never maintained, played with the fate of two military and with the honour of this laughed country, at an international level. There have also been some 'travels', and I stress this, of some ministers to keep public opinion good. Incidentally, I disagree with President Casini, who says that this country has for too long pretended not to see. In my opinion, this country for two years has looked at what this policy, not the country, has not done! It is not the country: it is the politics that has not done. Without a real mission, this policy, without an interlocutor willing to deal seriously with political-diplomatic initiatives. And so you are - I emphasize this - going on for weeks, accepting the policy of the facts done by the Indian judicial authorities, without a strategy, with the hope of solving an underrated problem. You thought that Indian stitches were to be traced back to local electoral needs, projecting Italian vices on these people. But you have not understood that India has a strategy, it has a precise internal and foreign policy, unlike us. But think that your Italetta - your Italetta! Could you fool one of the world's emerging companies? Doesn't that ring a bell, Minister? Brazil, Russia, India - and not Italy, that I is not Italy, but India - and China. You have not even been able to accept the proposal of help coming from the large and powerful Indian community in Italy. They offered you their help, advice and contacts, with a letter directly to the two ministers. And you, arrogant, have not even responded, convinced that you bring home your result alone, unable to create relations with those who live in our country, but want to maintain relations with the country of origin. They were willing to help us and you didn't even listen to them: perhaps they could solve the problems, unlike you. And we come to the last few hours, Madam Minister. The UN is untiring: it is a bilateral issue with India (I also want to see it!). Italy wakes up after two years - after two years - and asks for help from the European Union and the UN: after two years and after making a planetary impression. It is good for the UN to leave you alone; it is good for the UN to remind us how this Italetta and how insignificant the policy of this Italetta is on a global level. You have not even been able to threaten - at least threaten - the withdrawal of our military contingents; that means you do not have an international strategy. At least one threat, at least show that maybe something we wanted to do; not even that. For years the left-wing intelligentsia has criticized and mocked the center-right, saying that we were the laughing stock of Europe (I heard it also from SEL's colleague); for years you said that Italy had become an Italetta because of someone who was ruling it. Two Embarrassing Governing Democratic Party: Mountains and Letta. Luckily the latter is at the gas barrel and luckily we hope he's done. As international policies you are embarrassing, incompetent and arrogant towards the Indian community and you have not brought home a decent result, if we are still here today to talk about it after two years. You know what you look like? You look like the Italetta of the 20 years, who wanted to invade Albania and Greece and then had to ask the allies for help, because he didn't know how to do anything. We advise you at this point what to do, we ignorant ligistic barbarians, with some proposals, Minister. One: immediately withdraw our contingent, in order to force the UN to take an interest - at least concern itself - in our problem. Two: interrupt your meaningless trips to India, which make our taxpayers spend money and have not brought results. Three, the main thing (we ask you, Minister, to listen well, because the request perhaps had to be number one): an exchange, we take home Salvatore and Massimiliano and leave in India Mario Mauro and Emma Bonino. You can do this if you are so convinced that you will resolve the situation in the short time possible. It's something you can do, and if you want to solve it, you can do it. And we are not going to say no, we are going to vote in favour. Four: On your return you will present your resignation for manifest inability. So, Minister, you didn't convince us in your speech, because it was really short and you didn't say anything, as usual. At this moment we see your international policy on the same level as the Ministers of this Government, in a confused state and, fortunately, on the gas barrel. We hope that this experience will end as soon as possible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u23	Mr President, Minister, I see that at last, after two years of sleepy and guilty expectation, something is moving, as if a whisper of pride has shaken our consciences. Without retracing the entire chronology of the story, now known to most, the current evolution, which still holds back in India our military, hostages of an aberrant international controversy, has now become a priority issue to be resolved as soon as possible, also and especially with reference to the approval of the decree that was very appropriately postponed yesterday, with the request to hear the Government (and thank you for its immediate presence in the Chamber). Madam Minister, let us not hide our concern and dismay, first of all because of the statements of the UN Secretary-General, but also because of the decision of the Indian Supreme Court to call on the investigating judiciary to formulate, after two years of exhausting expectation, the accusations known to all. We do not want to go into the matter of judicial matters, although we have no doubt about the accident, but it is really difficult for us to think that these two of our soldiers deliberately shot human figures, for no specific reason, in order to be guilty of a crime. So, if it is true that on the one hand - this must make us think - two innocent fishermen have lost their lives, on the other it is really difficult to doubt the chance of the accident. And anyway, for a story like this, the clues of guilt, waiting for the charges, certainly do not justify the kidnapping of our two soldiers in Indian land. Therefore, I believe that Italy, and with it Europe and the international communities (because there is no doubt about the multilaterality of the problem, with good peace in Ban Ki-moon), must demand respect for international law and a rapid solution of the case, which is also requested by the ambassadors of the Member States of the European Union, the United States of America and the ambassador of the European Union, as well as by the members of a delegation of the various Italian parliamentary groups who, very appropriately, went to New Delhi at the end of January. We hope that you, Madam Minister, have acquired the support and convergence necessary to internationalise this case. His statements today and what emerges from his clear report lead us to hope, given the opinion of the Italian Government on the statements of the UN Secretary-General and on the initiatives that are intended to be taken in the United Nations to support the Italian position and the further steps that the Government intends to take at European and multilateral level. The hope is that in Italy the line of firmness will come forward, because considering the two maroons as terrorists means to consider Italy itself a terrorist country, and it is unacceptable for Italy, but also for the Europe of which we are part. In this context, I would like to highlight the important role that the Italian Parliament must play in raising awareness among the international community - this is what we are trying to do with your help - and in raising this issue with representatives of the European institutions and their counterparts from other countries. The decision that the Indian public accuses, after two years of guilty silence, formally advanced to the Supreme Court of that country, that the charge of the two Italian military takes place under the assumption of the application of the anti-terrorism and anti-piracy legislation, is really unacceptable: it is, for Italy, a situation to say the least grotesque. The time has come to square around our Navy rifles. It is time to show the Indians and the international community that they are a united country. It has been a long time, too long, and now we have to expect the results and the expected feedback of the international community to come. We cannot be consoled by the fact that the European Union has made its voice heard on this matter, even if this is important and decisive. The President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Catherine Ashton, have expressed the EU's serious concerns about the matter, which is likely to have a negative impact on the EU's global efforts to combat piracy. Let us hope that this is a firm and concrete commitment and not mere formal statements. The entire Italian Parliament follows the evolution of the affair with assiduousness and great concern, also in view of the serious consequences that could derive from this unfortunate precedent in terms of the certainty of international law and the effectiveness of the action given in support of peace and security through the instrument of international missions, to which Italy contributes with conviction. For these reasons, the delegation of the Italian Parliament's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees, representative of all political forces, was right at the end of January to go to Delhi, where it met the diplomatic representatives of some European countries, together with the head of the European Union delegation, renewing the readiness to start a channel of parliamentary diplomacy that helps to speed up the positive solution of the dispute even if, as is known, no representative of the Indian institutions had the courtesy and good sense to meet the delegation; an attitude, this of the Indian authorities, irritating, abusive and unacceptable closure to us. We therefore feel the need to proceed without delay in compliance with international law and that the military should be assured of all the guarantees of the rule of law, starting from the possibility that they can immediately return to their country, taking into account that for two years they have been subject to a measure of restriction of personal freedom in the absence of a reliable head of attribution. Therefore, Madam Minister, on behalf of the New Right Centre Group, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks for your timely presence in this House and once again express the commitment of our parliamentarians and the readiness for any initiative that the Government intends to take to achieve a positive solution to the delicate issue, putting first the interest of the life and destiny of our sailors but, not least, the proud defence of the dignity of our nation and our noble tradition of commitment and distinction in international missions of peace. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u24	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister, thank you for being here today to report on the events of the two Navy rifles despite very short notice. It is a signal of attention to Parliament that I welcome, but which I personally am not surprised by, recognizing to it from the beginning of its Dicastery a particular sensitivity in this regard. I am afraid, however, that this is the only positive note of these last days on this case. We all feel - I hope - a duty, a moral imperative towards the two innocent protagonists, and I refer to the chief of the first class Massimiliano Latorre and to the second class leader Salvatore Girone, who dress with honour the uniform of our Navy (the first for 30 years and the second for 17), our experienced sailors and already participating in numerous international missions. I was lucky enough to know them personally and appreciated their dignity and sense of duty. I repeat that they are innocent, because, in addition to the fair guarantee that must be reserved for any accused person, in their case it is clear that India cannot charge them with any charge, because the reconstruction of the facts completely excludes them from any involvement in the death of the two Indian citizens on board the Saint Antony fishing vessel. As we now know, their initial arrest in Kerala was used for mere electoral purposes in that Indian State; today instead the Government of the Indian Federal State, torn apart by internal struggles between its ministers, relies on an infamous accusation (terrorism) to cover its impossibility to charge anything to our two Maroons. In this sense it must be understood the decision to want to apply its Act as this requires that the accused prove his innocence by reversing, with a legal abomination, the burden of proof. The promises of a fast and fair trial (fast and fair) on the Indian side have been revealed as a sailor's promise, despite being pronounced by the high offices of that country. Also our investigative journalism has long been busy and I wonder if in its management it has not been considered the documented reconstruction of the facts made by journalist Toni Capuozzo and Stefano Tronconi. Without retracing the whole story here, I believe that, in our considerations, we must not forget that we are dealing both with the honour of Italy, and that of two servants of the State and their innocence that, we hope, will be demonstrated in the appropriate fora, that is, the Italian jurisdiction or international arbitration. Because of its institutional duty and its clear inopportunity, let us avoid in this House resuming the past and pointing the finger, bearing responsibility: there will be time and way. Yesterday, the 5 Star Movement Group associated itself with the request of Senator Latorre and Senator Casini for the Government, in the person of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to clarify, as soon as possible, the profound dystonia between the words that you used no later than Tuesday in the joint hearing of the Foreign Affairs Committees and the defence of both branches of Parliament, with which you guaranteed us a strong involvement of the international community (the so-called internationalization of the matter), and the words of UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who brings this incredible story back to a merely bilateral issue between India and Italy. To be honest, on that occasion it represented, if I remember correctly, the risk of receiving from international partners both concrete and effective solidarity, as well as generic expressions of closeness and support. I had understood that these different positions could arise from so many different contexts; but honestly we did not expect, on the contrary, not only not to receive support for the legitimate Italian positions, but even, on the contrary, to feel the solidarity from the greatest exponent of the United Nations not already to Italy, but precisely to the country to which we oppose, namely India. Because Minister, in fact, this happened. Ban Ki-moon, putting this issue bilaterally, expressed solidarity with India and not Italy. Our indignation and surprise, you can imagine, is at most, indeed, skyrocketing. Yet the fight against piracy is a struggle that Italy has been leading for years: with the Ocean Shield mission, under the aegis of NATO, with the Atalanta mission, under the aegis of the European Union, and with the protection of Italian merchantmen, under the aegis of UNCLOS, which is unfortunately the one in which our Navy rifles were capsized two years ago. This struggle, which has many facets, is not receiving sufficient support from these three organizations. As is well known, the European Union, both at the level of the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, and the High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ashton, has expressed itself in a way, in my opinion, perhaps insufficient and certainly to be strengthened, but at least we have had a clear indication that we want to regard this as a European, international, multilateral and not already bilateral issue, as perhaps we thought at the beginning of the matter. I think, however, that this path must continue: the European Union, India's first trading partner, must assert its weight. I agree with those who, even in this House, talk about the need for more thoughtful and calm diplomatic attitudes, but diplomacy does not mean a lack of firmness. Firmness in this case must not be lacking in Italy's option and position. We know that India aspires to become a permanent member of the UN Security Council. We would be interested to know whether Ban Ki-moon's attitude is somehow linked to this result that India wants to achieve. In short, we would not want, in addition to so many internal political dynamics in India, to be further and negatively influenced by India's desire for greater international prestige, which no one should question, so not even by the United Nations and its highest representative. Italy, however, cannot remain firm, but it must demand a clear and firm position from the other countries of the European Union - some of which, among other things, are already permanent members of the UN Security Council - of the United States, which are perhaps the most important member of all, of the countries of NATO and perhaps also of Russia. As for NATO, yesterday we finally heard words of concern about this affair from Rasmussen, but a voice that has come soft, weak and that does not reassure us. Yet how strong is Italy's NATO commitment in terms of men - I wonder at this point how protected they are - military means and bases! It's sad to hear words so light and ambivalent by Rasmussen! Our traditional allies, namely the United States, hope to take a more decisive position, despite their well-known diplomatic difficulties with India. The work of internationalisation, which we, too, at parliamentary level, can promote with our peers in the national parliaments of Europe, and at European Parliament level, requires an ever-increasing commitment from the Government and all our highest positions in the State. Italy is at the side of our two rifles. The government shows us that, at least in this matter, it is leading the country in resolving the dispute, to bring home, with honor, our two Navy rifles. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u26	We greet the students of the Istituto tecnico economico - Enrico Tosi - of Busto Arsizio, in the province of Varese, who are following our works from the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to express my appreciation for the promptness, at least with respect to yesterday's request, of the Government to report to the House today, as well as to demand from the Foreign Commissions and the defence of the Senate and the House that it has accelerated at this stage of the events of our rifles. The parliamentary mission that has been carried out in recent days, which has seen many of us protagonists, has not been political tourism, and I also say this to my colleague from the League, who, moreover, has participated with Mr Pini in a useful and constructive way. This mission has served to avoid fragmented initiatives by each political force and thus to give a cohesive image of Parliament, Italy and its political forces at a time when cohesion does not abound even within the individual parties. It also served in the meetings we had with Presidents Grasso, Boldrini, Letta and Napolitano. A united and cohesive delegation, which at this time - I repeat - is not usual, has given all the institutions greater strength in order to be able to play their part. Yesterday in the Joint Defence and Foreign Commissions it happened to me first to raise the problem of the statements that Ban Ki-moon, Secretary General of the United Nations, had made - for us it was night and, therefore, their news, for reasons of time zone, appeared in the early hours of the morning on some Italian press bodies - showing an attitude of sufficiency towards Italy. I therefore put the question and made the request, not to boycott the measure on military missions - it expires in mid-March and there is plenty of time to discuss it and approve it - but to postpone the debate and ask for a comparison on the issue of gunmen that could be more useful. The decree, in any case, will be converted into law on time. The debate will serve to draw further attention to the international community, so I believe that we must first censor the attitude of the United Nations. I welcome the fact that Minister Bonino has made timely contacts. Allow me, Mr Bonino, to make a comment. Thank you for being here today. I've known her for a long time and I have respect for her. In all this, perhaps a greater incisiveness, even personal, of the Foreign Minister would have appreciated it. We have known her, not always sharing her positions, as a combative exponent of the political world on many causes that she has supported in Italy and abroad on duties and rights. They are more the causes that I have not shared - as you know - than those that I shared, but the style has always been for me, that I am a political militant, appreciable. On this matter probably a pinch of extra determination and decision would have served. Someone said to put a veil on the past. I share the initiative of President Casini that, at the end of each other, we must investigate the type of rules of engagement, the events that have occurred, why the ship has brought the maròs to land, how to combine military intervention with commercial activities that must also be protected, piracy and therefore on ships that face perilous seas. We'll discuss this in due course. However, the attitude of some governments remains disturbing. When the two Maròs returned to Italy during the Monti Government, the President of the Council took photographs, then left. Ministers of that government said that commercial reasons etched on the decisions, which also helped to assume Passera, that to what I see is going to found a new party (in this regard, I would invite the "Corriere della Sera" to prudence, since it has kept at baptism many of those political leaders destined for defeat in these years: I would therefore advise prudence on the launch of the Party of Passera, which is announced today in that newspaper). However, Passera, while waiting for funds to be started, also explains to us, as an irreconcilable Minister, how much he has affected the decision to send the Maròs back to India. It seems to me that in these weeks in Parliament we have been firmly saying the things that had to be said. We now want to remember, Minister Bonino, that we have 7,000 soldiers, between men and women, engaged in military missions around the world. The missions are about 26. We have paid a considerable human and economic cost. The UN respects the sacrifice of the Italian military that has also been dealt with on behalf of the UN in many parts of the world! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The correction of course - if any - of the Secretary General of the United Nations (in fact, Minister Bonino told us about this interview) was a good thing. I regret, Mr Bonino, that the President-in-Office of the Council - as I said yesterday in the Chamber, on behalf of our Group, Senator Carraro - missed an opportunity in Sochi. It is true that the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games was taking place, but it is not often the case that so many international authorities are involved. There was also Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations. President Letta took part in events and ceremonies together with the Secretary General of the United Nations on February 7 for five, six hours. He could have taken the opportunity. I don't know, because I don't have any records or records, but I wouldn't want you telling him about the pains that Matteo Renzi creates. To us they create, instead, pain the injustices that suffer our military. So maybe that was a missed opportunity, too. We call for increased international action. We appreciated NATO's positions, the European Union's decision which we called for from Parliament, but which also urged the Foreign Minister, the President of the Council, Mr Antonio Tajani, Vice-President of the European Commission (I would also like to mention his commitment to Barroso). We need to internationalise this. It's not a bilateral affair. We could raise our voices. We are not here to do "militaristic rhetoric," but those two soldiers acted under the aegis of an international mission. We cannot accept the application of the rules on terrorism by India and we must challenge this attitude at all levels! I also know that India is a country with a billion 200 million inhabitants, which is a great market, a great power, but by acting in this way India will never be able to deserve the seat of the UN Security Council to which it aspires. We also want to make it clear that elections and political events affect all countries. We, for example, are immersed in permanent congresses or recurring elections. India today is playing a complex electoral match that will end next spring. We cannot accept a blackmail of which we pay the consequences: the leader of the Congress, being Italian, if it is unbalanced towards Italy is attacked, the new emerging must be hard on Italy. We must internationalise this because Latorre and Girone cannot be held hostage by the internal feuds of India's policy. This is not acceptable. We claim our positions, even if yesterday I personally happened to be attacked with wisdom on the columns of the Republic by Barbara Spinelli citing articles according to which even in India, in Bengal, or I do not know where the claims of myself and others were contested. We want to have the esteem of our military, and Barbara Spinelli's disenchantment confirms that we are on the right and right side. Minister Bonino, leaving aside the events of the Government on which it would be easy, on a day like this, to mock and ironize (there will be other moments and other places to do so), you are here to carry out your function, on a day of particular political precariousness, and we appreciate it. We are here to draw the attention of the institutions and not to make political meetings. We want to formally challenge the decisions of the Indian authority and encourage the action of our Government to internationalize the matter and we want to chorusfully challenge the positions expressed by the UN in recent days and then corrected after the talks, hoping that after further statements, Ban Ki-moon's errors will be erased by an attitude of support for our determination. I also want to say that we will convert the decree-law on international missions, but when the debate on merit is held we will also say something about missions in the Indian Ocean. As Minister Bonino pointed out, two UN resolutions concern these types of missions. This is an important commitment of Italy and other countries. It's not a bilateral affair, it's an international affair. I would point out that in recent years our highest authorities have had many opportunities for talks. It seems that Merkel also called in occasion of the crisis of Government that you wished in Italy; We learned that Obama frequently called President Monti, of whom he followed the advice (in fact, the American budget also experienced dramatic moments during last summer, by asking President Monti for advice!). It is normal, therefore, that our Presidents of the Council and, even more so, the President of the Republic of Naples, who has an international authority that derives from an important and authoritative path in the Italian and European institutions, make their voice heard. On the other hand, the Heads of State and Government of the world share Italy's commitment to humanitarian missions and appreciated our sacrifice. We take part in those missions because we believe that it is appropriate for everyone to restore democracy and freedom in Afghanistan, Lebanon or elsewhere. There is no doubt, however, that we have supported an international policy of the Western world, which must take its stand at this point. So when we invite our institutions to dialogue at the highest level, I think they can. It has taken place for far more trivial reasons of internal and current policy and, therefore, this matter deserves further commitment. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank the Government for its intervention, while at the same time stressing that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees of the House and Senate are acting with cohesion and incisiveness. Yesterday we asked for this kind of opportunity to show that our nation is cohesive. I would add that our military and their families very much appreciated political and moral solidarity when we met them a few days ago; it is true that they are in the embassy, but they live in a state of uncertainty and know that they are victims of an intolerable internal political struggle in India. It is important, therefore, that they know that the Senate of the Republic has dedicated a space, not only to express formal solidarity, but also to give governments and our institutions further strength in the face of NATO, the European Union, the United States and the United Nations. The latter is an unnecessarily expensive apparatus and probably a prisoner of too many Third World drives to be able to settle international disputes: we all wanted an effective and decisive UN, but so many times the international community had to compensate for its shortcomings! We hope that Ban Ki-moon will make amends to his mistakes, apologize to Italy, respect the role of our country and Italian democracy and help us to close this dispute, which has lasted too long. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mr Bonino not only for coming here in good time, as has been said by all my colleagues, but also because his personal authority and the results of the effective diplomatic action of the last few days and the last hours - which he has been able to report to this House - have put our debate on a path of seriousness and in the right constructive spirit. We all have a fundamental objective: to resolve this crisis, first of all out of solidarity with our husbands, and not to aggravate it. The solution to this crisis requires the exercise of two virtues, of which Minister Bonino has shown, not only in these days, but in recent months: patience and firmness. Both these virtues must be exercised at the same time. In recent months perhaps the dimension of patience has prevailed when it was a question of facing an accusation of manslaughter, while it has inevitably prevailed and the dimension of firmness is prevailing when faced with the charge of terrorism. We can agree to discuss with India, even by accepting the lengths of its jurisdiction, knowing that we have little to teach on this side, unfortunately. We learned four years after the elections in Piedmont that the same were false, invalid, so we are the homeland of law, but perhaps we are not up to our ancestors, let's put it this way. In short, we do not have much to teach on this front to other countries, but certainly we cannot accept that our military mission, within the canons of the UN and the resolutions of the UN Security Council, is judged by a court, indeed by a Supreme Court of a country member of the UN, great world power (a great country that also has an extraordinary history of civilization behind) an act of terrorism. This cannot be accepted. So the mixture of patience and firmness changes according to what is the subject of the debate in the field. Patience and firmness must produce the fundamental result that - has been said several times in this House, and in Parliament in general - is to make this an international crisis. Italy, in fact, does not have an interest to defend, but at this moment it believes that a point of principle is violated in international law. It seems to me that this strategy of internationalization, with all the patience and firmness that requires a complex strategy such as this in agreeing with the international community (anyone who deals with foreign policy knows that it is not a simple thing), is producing important results, to the point that the gaffe - I would like to call it that - of the Secretary General of the United Nations on the fact that this would be an affair that falls within the bilateral agreements between Italy and India was an element, so to speak, that has paradoxically accelerated a clarification. In fact, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has been forced to deal with two facts: on the one hand, two Italian soldiers, belonging to a mission under the aegis of the United Nations, have been accused of being terrorists (and this fact, frankly, cannot be reduced to the rank of a dispute or bilateral dispute); on the other hand, 28 European countries and an international organization such as NATO, which is one of the operational arms of the United Nations in so many missions at international level, have recognized that there is a serious problem and that this has an international and multilateral nature. So I would like us in this House, as I believe the tenor of today's debate has emerged, to come out definitively from the dry areas in which all too often the debate on foreign policy in Italy ends up sanding. We are a country that is constantly oscillating between self-pity and volietalism: we call ourselves Italy, and honestly I find it extravagant that this expression, so to speak self-ridden, has been repeated in this House by a Group that defines itself for the independence of Padania. We are Italy and we call ourselves Italy, but it wants to break the kidneys to India. So, either one or the other, or maybe neither. The more seriously we are Italy, one of the great European countries, and we have a foreign policy. We've had it for over half a century, we've had it since World War II, and we've had so many good governments and so many bad governments in our history. But why should we not all make the most of the fact that we have an important and serious foreign policy? Let a senator elected in Valsugana tell him: a certain Alcide De Gasperi was the main founder of this foreign policy of ours, who has some firm points that fortunately every time come back useful, and we see that they are the principles within which we must move and they are principles that also produce effective results, if we know how to pursue them with patience and firmness. As it happens, today we are trying to internationalise the issue of the Maroons by leveraging on the European Union (the European Union itself which is often the subject of our volious absenteeism: instead, the European Union is the fundamental space of our foreign policy; if there is no Europe, neither are we, in the world, as there is no European country in the world without the European Union, as Romano Prodi reminds us all the time) and NATO, that is, the strategic alliance with the United States of America, the other fundamental and fundamental choice of our country's foreign policy, and it happens that NATO is also the other lever on which we are acting for the internationalization of the crisis. Then there is the United Nations Organization, in which you can stand with your back straight and you can also take the phone and - pass me Minister Bonino the expression not diplomatic - tell him four to Ban Ki-moon, because on that occasion, on that occasion he deserved it, because we are Italy, because we are a country that believes in the UN (we also have a Minister who has an onusian history of all respect) and we are a country that is so convinced, so deeply within the United Nations, that it is - as has been remembered by many colleagues - one of the protagonists of one of the fundamental activities of the United Nations such as peacekeeping: our country is the leader of peacekeeping at the level of the United Nations. Then let us stop, ladies and gentlemen (I believe that in this debate we really have given a breakthrough in this matter), swinging between self-pity and volition. Our foreign policy exists, it is a foreign policy that bypasses governments, which at the moment has been well represented by a good and great minister like what we have at the moment. I believe that on this path we can face the crisis of the Maròs with seriousness, composure and concreteness, trying to bring home the result. If there is the unity of Parliament and of the country on this objective and on the effectiveness of the action of the Government and our diplomacy, I think that the results will come, and we can look with confidence not only to the success of this affair of the Maròs, but also to our role in Europe and in the world. [[Applause from the PD, PI and SCPI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u29	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whom we thank for the immediate willingness to come to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u32	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we believe that the events that took place yesterday afternoon, which are the natural consequence of what has happened these days, are of unprecedented seriousness. Yesterday afternoon, the President-in-Office of the Council presented to the press, not to Parliament, a new government programme. We believe that a President-in-Office of the Council who has received confidence from this Parliament on the basis of a programme that has been voted by the Chambers - not by the 5 Star Movement, but by the other political forces present here - cannot change the government programme without communicating it and without passing through a vote of confidence within Parliament itself. What is happening is really very serious, because we Italians are suffering the internal and personal beatings of the Democratic Party today and, yesterday, of another political force. We believe that, in this particular case, the headquarters of the PD in via del Nazareno is becoming the third Chamber, and Parliament cannot remain unarmed in the face of such attitudes. We formally ask you, Mr President, to invite the Government, in the person of the President of the Council, to immediately inform our Assembly of the new government programme and to verify whether or not a trust relationship exists. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement, pursuant to Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure, will reserve the presentation in that forum of acts of direction aimed at revealing the real intentions of this Assembly, in the light of the sun and in front of all Italians. The Government must gain or not gain confidence in Parliament and not in other forums or in press conferences. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u33	The next item is the illustration of motions 1-00125, presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators, and 1-00213, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, on the MUOS satellite telecommunications system. I call Senator Santangelo to explain motion No 125.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the MUOS (Mobile user objective system) is a satellite communication system of the American Navy consisting of five satellites and four earth stations scattered around the world, one of which is being built in Italy, in Sicily, near the Municipality of Niscemi, where three mega antennas with a diameter of 18 metres and a height of 150 metres have been made. Let me explain better: such antennas would be like thirty five-storey buildings placed one above the top, with a height above the dome of St. Peter. So think of what kind of structure they're building. This system has an action radius of 130 kilometers for a total of 2,059 square meters of cementification. To make it operational, three antennas have already been installed which, to date, are not in operation. The range of action will mainly affect a population of 30,000 inhabitants and includes the municipalities of Niscemi, Gela, Vittoria, Caltagirone, Piazza Armerina, Butera, Riesi; areas already defined at high risk of environmental crisis. The MUOS will be built - think carefully - within the Sughereta nature reserve of Niscemi, inserted in the network "Natura 2000" as a site of Community interest, pursuant to the European directive called Habitats. All this has been achieved in the dark and without taking into account the positions and situations experienced by citizens in those areas which are of course extremely concerned about the health and environmental risks arising from this large structure. The reassurance of ARPA Sicilia (Regional Environment Protection Agency), which made a series of surveys on the emission of electromagnetic waves, was judged totally insufficient by some scholars of the best Italian universities, as the data was acquired through inadequate and unsuitable instruments. In order to prevent the implementation of MUOS, thousands and thousands of citizens have expressed themselves in an absolutely peaceful manner, in all ways and in all the relevant fora, forming themselves in several committees, including those of the "No MUOS" and "Momme No MUOS" (Mother No MUOS). In March 2013, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of the Mothers no MUOS, concerned about the health of their children, was awarded, in Rome, the 'Women peace and the environment' award. At the same time, in Niscemi, other mothers tried to show their no to the realization of the MUOS, trying to block the entry of the workers among the soldiers during the change of guard: on that occasion there were several struggles, with some wounded among the same moms. The mothers of Niscemi and citizens of the entire area are affected by exposure to electromagnetic fields, with repercussions on the health and environment in which they live. The MUOS of Niscemi - as it happened for incinerators, for the TAV in Val di Susa or for drilling in the Mediterranean, is once again the result of governmental choices made without listening to the opinion of the citizens, which are, however, those who get sick - who die and live constantly and daily the problems related to this huge structure. I would like to remind you here that the range of action of the MUOS in Niscemi will also cover the territory of Gela, that is, an area already largely affected by pollution due to the petrochemical plant, which has brought and continues to bring mourning and suffering to the inhabitants of the city. I would also remind you that the prolonged exposure to electromagnetic fields caused by MUOS, which is of enormous intensity, is detrimental to the development of cancers and leukemias and the people most exposed, Mr President, are children and the elderly, although, in the long run, all citizens may have such problems. The presence of MUOS, in fact, will have deleterious effects also on the ecosystem of the Sughereta of Niscemi and the Bosco of Santo Pietro, besides having a potential impact also on the agricultural sector and on the crops of the area, given the high influence of electromagnetic fields. It is a truly sustainable situation. I would point out that the motion we are debating today, which sees me as the first signatory, was tabled by me in July 2013, but only today has it found room in this House, where I regret, moreover, that there are very few - perhaps even for other commitments - my fellow senators present. Finally, I would like to point out that the same administrative procedure relating to MUOS was totally unacceptable: after the initial authorisation for implementation was granted, the same procedure was subsequently withdrawn. I must say that, from this point of view, the governor of Sicily himself, Crocetta, has created a lot of confusion, especially among the citizens, who have not had the right reference. Mr President, with the hope that all the other political forces can also converge on our position, we want to say in this House that we are not in a dry halt to the realization of this work, which will turn a wonderful island like Sicily into a large radar centre, with very unacceptable consequences for all citizens. We therefore very much hope that, during the vote, there will be the right sensitivity on the part of everyone to understand this enormous problem. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u35	I call Senator De Petris to explain motion 213.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u36	Mr President, with regard to the issue of MUOS, it is good to make a number of clarifications, not least in relation to the debate we had just held. First of all, this is a very high frequency satellite radio telecommunications system of the U.S. Navy and not NATO (this is already a first issue of not secondary importance among what we put in our motion) and will be used to co-ordinate extensively all U.S. military systems located in every part of the planet and to drive weapon systems such as aircraft without pilots. First question: the Americans decide not to install it inside the military base of Sigonella because the studies say that the beams of electromagnetic waves have a capacity that interferes with the equipment placed on aircraft in flight and at the same military airport of Sigonella (not to mention the airports of Comiso and Fontanarossa). Instead, they choose Niscemi and a land falling within the nature reserve oriented called Sughereta di Niscemi, inserted in the ecological network "Natura 2000" as a Site of Community importance (SIC), which is located about six kilometers away from the inhabited center of the village of Niscemi and about two kilometers from the first urban agglomerations. This is not indifferent, because, I remember what I said earlier, Americans do not choose Sigonella precisely because of the intensity and extent of electromagnetic waves. The No MUOS committees, the first ones from the outset, express great concern about the consequences of the installation of this system on the health and safety of the inhabitants and on the environment, so not only generically about military servitude. Among other things, they refer to a 2011 study by the Politecnico di Torino, carried out by professors Zucchetti and Coraddu, in which we talk about possible, serious consequences for the health of citizens living within a radius of 20 kilometers from the installation site. The Municipality of Niscemi asks the Ministry of Defense for clear and precise indications on the real effects of electromagnetic waves and in March 2009 the appointment of a technical-scientific committee for the evaluation of the documentation submitted on the MUOS project. On 21 December 2012, the section before the TAR in Palermo, within the framework of the proceedings, ordered the appointment of a verifier in the person of the principal of the Engineering Faculty of the University of Rome (La Sapienza) to declare the effects and impact of the electromagnetic emissions generated by the MUOS plant. This verification, filed on 27 June 2013, confirmed that all studies and data based on regional authorisations were erroneous and unreliable, stressing that the risks to the population and to instrumental interference with neighbouring airports were not adequately assessed (I would like to remind Ustica), while the negative environmental impact related to electromagnetic waves emitted by the plant is certain. Meanwhile, the Sicilian Region on March 29, 2013 revokes the environmental authorisations granted for the realization of the MUOS. Then I withdraw the revocation, with an alleged agreement with the Minister of Defence, which made the resumption of the work of realization of the MUOS subordinate to the positive opinion of a commission formed by the Higher Institute of Health. Now, I believe that the Senate House should discuss this matter in depth, because this is not a question that is generally linked to the impact of a work - which, among other things, is considered strategic by Italy and I will return to it - but because, once again, there is an issue that Parliament must address once and for all. When I said at the beginning that we are talking about an American military installation and not about NATO, this means that it does not come from the NATO Treaty but is the result of an agreement between the Italian Government and the United States. Mr President, on this I believe that our Constitution is quite clear: there should have been prior authorisation under Articles 80 and 87 of our Constitution. This is not a question of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty; it is a bilateral military agreement between two countries. Therefore, all authorisations based on the simplified procedure cannot be applied to the question of the base, because it is a base of the United States and therefore does not derive from the NATO Treaty. The use of the simplified procedure for all the operations carried out - this, among other things, is one of the objects of the motion - was not possible in our opinion. It should have been Parliament's prior authorisation, following a debate in Parliament itself. When I said that this system will coordinate all the various bases and systems that the United States has all over the world, this means that it could also be used in military actions where our country has nothing to do with it. Let us remember the case of Sigonella: even under the NATO Treaty Italy may not grant the use of military bases on its territory, as happened perhaps only at the time of the Sigonella affair. In this case, however, having used the simplified procedure, we find ourselves in a situation that would be absolutely out of respect not only for Article 11 of the Constitution, but - I repeat - also for Articles 80 and 87, very precise and very clear. Among other things, I would like to quote a reply from the Minister of Defence Mauro to a parliamentary question put to the House on this subject. To the questioner, Mr Palazzotto, who asked what legitimacy the Minister had to challenge the revocations of the environmental authorizations made by the Sicilian Region (all disputes on revocation and counter-revocation), the Minister replied that he acted for a specific interest of the State, being also a strategic work for Italy, which is absolutely not possible, not even using the simplified procedure (which we consider absolutely wrong) that was used to sign the agreement with the United States. Among other things, the Minister continues by saying that this system will represent, if completed, subject to the results of the study of the Higher Institute of Health, a strategic system of satellite communication which can also be used by the Italian Armed Forces, in implementation of the principle of mutual assistance in the field of NATO. Such statements are absolutely not true and appear absolutely unproven, even from the agreements that have given rise to the location of the MUOS in our country. These inaccuracies, in our view, seem aimed not to make it appear that the Ministry of Defence has signed and applied bilateral agreements that we consider illegitimate, because they are formalized outside the procedures governed by Articles 80 and 87 of the Constitution, thus depriving Parliament of its absolute prerogative in international politics: the authorization to ratify the agreements. Among other things, this satellite system is military: it will guide the weapon systems - as I said at the beginning - and, therefore, it can also be used in conflicts in which Italy itself could be placed in positions not only of non-belligerence, pursuant to Article 11 of the Constitution, but even in opposition to our own interests. For this reason, we ask the Government, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to suspend the implementation of any bilateral agreement on the implementation of the MUOS system on the basis of Niscemi and to put back to Parliament, for the purpose of prior approval, any agreement on this matter, pursuant to Articles 80 and 87 of the Constitution, after informing the Chambers of the actual characteristics and conditions of use of the transmission system and of the costs which, among other things, are borne by the Italian Government. Therefore, we ask the Government to proceed immediately - this is the request that we make with motion 213 - to suspend the execution and the continuation of the work for the installation of such a system. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u37	The continuation of the debate on motions for resolutions will take place at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u40	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of this moment and of your willingness to give an announcement of a question that I have tabled, about a huge problem that concerns an important territory of Sicily, that of the Province of Ragusa, which I have the honour to represent in this House: once again, for the umpteenth, new oil drillings are expected in this territory. It is a precious territory for its history, because it is a cradle of culture, recognized by UNESCO as a site to protect and protect for future generations, and it is truly incredible that we continue to grant permits to drill and destroy this heritage, which is not only ours, but also belongs to the generations that will come after us. It continues to drill a territory that is a natural reserve and includes the Mediterranean maquis, in whose borders and rivers live precious animal species. It is a site that has finally found its vocation and this is recognized, not only at the island level, but by the whole country, and not only thanks to fiction, but because those who come to know that territory fall in love with it: I think of the many foreigners who are investing there, buying houses and land, because they fall in love with those territories. Finally, just when this new reinterpretation arrives, when you understand the value of all this, well, you again grant drilling permits in a territory that will come out completely defaced. Forgive me for saying all this with passion, but I do not believe that the Senate House and our Government can remain insensitive when people are asked to self-determine themselves, to make their own choices, to indicate the path of possible development for the moment and for the future, and then at the same time authorizes the violence, the defacement of a territory that can no longer bear and that has already given. We have already given and you, Mr President, are well aware of this. Here everyone knows Priolo and Gela (and compared to what has just been said about MUOS as a Group we will intervene later). Do you really want to burn what has been invented and built by man in so many years? Do we really want to throw it away? Who do you want to choose more as a tourist destination a territory where, while swimming and a child takes a bath, plays with the bucket on the beach and makes its castles, as we have all done, are drilling next door? Who do you want me to come to this territory anymore? Nobody! Everyone will make other choices. Once again we abdicate, do we renounce the sustainable and possible development of an island that needs this? Do we now do so that, with work, dignity, recognition of what we have, we are a patrimony of humanity? Scicli, in fact, has sites that have been recognized as important to the whole world and we risk throwing all this away. I remember in fact that when you have the honour of being recognized, when a community is recognized by the whole world as home of treasures, you must keep them and guard them: recognition is not eternal, but must be maintained and guarded and I believe that drilling is certainly not the best method and the most serious system to maintain this site. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, PI and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u41	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the students of the Liceo Linguistico "Piazzi-Perpenti" of Sondrio, who followed our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-191.ana.u42	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.13 a.m.
