ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u1	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u2	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u3	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u4	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 12.07 p.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u7	I communicate to the Assembly that the President of the Republic, by letter of 18 October 2014, has communicated that by decree on the same date, countersigned by the President of the Council of Ministers, has appointed judges of the Constitutional Court Professor Daria De Pretis, ordinary of administrative law at the University of Trento, and Professor Nicolò Zanon, ordinary of constitutional law at the University of Milan.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u8	The next item is the government's information on recent alluvial events and the discussion of related motions 1-00178 (text 2) presented by Senator Di Biagio and other senators, 1-00253, presented by Senator Fucksia and other senators, 1-00308 (text 2), presented by Senator Ruta and other senators, 1-00314, presented by Senator Tarquinio and other senators, 1-00316 (text 2), presented by Senator Donno and other senators, 1-00324, presented by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, 1-00325, presented by Senator Bruni and other senators, and 1-00326, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, on soil protection. I call Mr Galletti, Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Land and the Sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to take this opportunity to renew the condolences of the entire Government and my staff (thinking to represent the sentiment of all of you) for the victims of the wave of bad weather that continued to rage on our peninsula until a few days ago. Our thoughts go to all those who have experienced those terrible moments and who have seen their commercial, industrial and agricultural activities brought to their knees by the devastating force of the flood. [[Applause from the PI Group]] As I have already told the House only a few days ago, the problems of hydrogeological failure are very important: it is from their final resolution that the safety of citizens, their quality of life and their hopes, in short, the future of the whole country depends. It is no longer acceptable that in a civil society as modern and well-structured as ours, the consequence of a storm often becomes a catastrophe for entire communities, with innocent victims and enormous difficulties to return to normal life. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u10	I beg your pardon, Minister. I must say that I am a little sorry to have to call this House to attention and to silence in the face of the serious events we are discussing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u11	[[Applause from the PD, Mixed SEL and PI Groups]] I ask you, Minister, to continue your speech, Mr Galletti, Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Thank you, Madam President. The theme that we are dealing with today therefore offers many ideas for reflection for all: none of us, for our respective responsibilities, can think of eluding them, because they call each of us to a deep reflection on the behaviours kept, on what has happened up to now and, above all, on what can be done to reverse the course. Let's start with prevention, because investing in prevention means saving lives, protecting the territory, as well as leading to substantial savings for the state. We need a profound change of mind: local administrations, for example, must have the courage and seriousness, which have often been lacking, to ban construction in areas with high hydrogeological risk. It is necessary to restore the places where it was built in violation of the basic laws of nature, artificially diverting streams or, even, building on those courses: these practices must no longer be repeated. We need money investments for ordinary and periodic maintenance - I repeat, ordinary and periodic - of hives and sewer pipes, with their entrances. Everyone is called to play their part - local authorities and the central state - because in the field of prevention the precautions are never enough to avoid accidents like those already seen and that for years have been repeated dramatically, perhaps because they are not predictable - of course! - or maybe because we've underestimated them for too long. I now come to describe the warning system regarding Genoa. The weather event of considerable intensity that hit North Italy was characterized by temporal phenomena also very localized that, starting from Liguria, on the day of October 7, subsequently affected Piedmont, Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany, Friuli-Venezia Giulia and, more marginally, Lombardy, Veneto and Upper Lazio, causing overall widespread flooding, exodus of numerous water streams and slopes. I would remind you that the national alert system for hydrogeological and hydraulic risk for civil protection purposes is governed by the directive of the President of the Council of Ministers of 27 February 2004, in line with the division between State and Regions of competences on prevention and forecasting activities. The national alert system is in the responsibility of the Regions, both with regard to the evaluation of the conditions for the issue of weather notices and newsletters and of hydrogeological and hydraulic criticalities in the technical structure called Regional Functional Centre, and in relation to the procedures and modalities of issuing and dissemination of alert messages for the purposes of activation at the various levels - regional, provincial and municipal - of the civil protection system in charge of the President of the Region. The Civil Protection Department, through the central functional centre, ensures the coordination of the system at national level and performs operational and functional subsidiarity functions, in justified cases where the Regional Functional Centres are unable to carry out the service because they are not activated or not operational, even temporarily. On the basis of these national guidelines, the Regions of Liguria, Piedmont, Emilia-Romagna, Veneto and Tuscany have regulated their regional alert activities with regional resolutions according to which they have full responsibility for the alerting activity, both in the issue of weather warnings and notices of hydrogeological and hydraulic criticality regarding the regional territory. It is pointed out, instead, that Friuli-Venezia Giulia is at the moment the only Region, among those involved by the weather event in question, that has not yet perfected the regional requirements necessary for full autonomy in the management of the regional alert system for hydrogeological and hydraulic risk. During the period concerned, according to the above-mentioned legislation, each Decentralised Functional Centre of the Regions concerned issued its own regional meteorological notices received by six notices of national adverse weather conditions valid from 8 October and until the morning of 16 October, covering the entire evolution of the phenomenon. In particular, the Central Functional Centre issued two notices of adverse weather conditions for the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region, on 12 and 14 October, in view of the fact that the decentralised Functional Centre, as I have already mentioned, is not yet formally active in that region. In view of the weather forecasts, each Autonomous Regional Functional Centre has assessed, in full responsibility, the possible critical scenarios on its territory. These scenarios have been transposed into national critical bulletins issued daily by the Civil Protection Department and made public on its institutional website. The bad weather that hit the Regions of Northern Italy on October 9th, moving subsequently also in central Italy, lasted approximately until October 14th. This wave of bad weather, unfortunately, also recorded a toll of victims: one in Genoa on the night between 9 and 10 October; two on the Maremmana, in Grossetano; another victim in Trieste for a landslide. The facts are well known: the flood and flooding of the rivers have brought along a large mass of mud that has invested many urban centers, where in some cases the evacuation of entire families has been necessary, causing serious damage to public and private structures and crops. On one thing we all agree: the causes of the current condition of hydrogeological failure must be sought, as well as in the effects dependent on climate change, in the design errors that have led, very often, to the regimentation and intubation of the watercourses and the excessive consumption of soil due to building speculation and urbanization without rules that have radically transformed the morphology of the soils. To come to the more specific facts of Genoa, in the evening of October 9, 2014, between 21 and 24, were recorded particularly intense precipitations but very localized that, due to the temporal and spatial characteristics, are not predictable today through the weather models available. In particular, it is evident that the maximum cumulative hourly was recorded in Genoa and that it exceeded 130 millimeters per hour. The precipitation caused the rapid rise of all the watercourses of the province of Genoa, causing the flooding in several places on the same evening. The most significant and sudden increases were recorded on Bisagno, which in about two hours, from 22 to 24, recorded an increase in the hydrometric level above 3,5 meters, exceeding the maximum alert threshold, equal to 4.2 meters, and reaching the hydrometric altitude of 5.6 meters, with the consequent exondation in the city area. Against this, considering the intensification of the rains, already from 22,30 hours of 9 October, at the prefecture of Genoa was convened a unit of crisis that has maintained continuous and constant contacts, in relation to the evolution of the situation, with the Region and the mayors of the municipalities concerned by the disturbance. At 23.30 the river Bisagno is exonerated in the area between Marassi and the Foce, which caused the death of a man. The deployment of forces on the territories concerned was impressive. Since 11 October he has also seen the competition of military of the Army, who, on indication of the prefecture, were destined to support directly the activity of the Fire Departments. These forces, together with the State Forestry Corps, monitored the watercourses and bridges in the areas most exposed to risk, in order to identify the situations in need of immediate intervention. Very valuable and highly professional was the contribution of the Forces of the Order, who carried out a widespread anti-dismantling activity, proceeding to the arrest of 22 persons caught in flagrant crime. As a result of the damage caused to buildings by heavy rain, 224 people were evacuated, 56 of whom were hospitalized at facilities made available to the municipal authorities, while the others were housed with relatives. It is now known to all that the main cause of the damage caused by the flood is to be linked to the intubation of the river Bisagno, which occurred in the twenties of the last century, which already in 2011 had caused similar emergencies. I'm not gonna sit here and repeat how much he already knows about everyone. The intervention, planned for a long time, in order to increase the scope and therefore the safety of the covered section of the river Bisagno a la Foce, has not been carried out in relation to the time that has become necessary for the treatment of certain actions brought to the TAR by undertakings excluded from the relevant invitation to tender. As for the storm in Maremma, at about 17 o'clock last 14 October the provincial commander of the firemen of Grosseto signalled to the competent prefecture an emergency for violent and sudden rain in the area La Sgrilla, in Marsiliana, in the municipality of Manciano. During the meeting at the Coordination Centre, promptly installed in the single operating room of the Provincial Civil Protection, it was reported that in the previous hours there were abundant rainfalls, which had affected the southern central belt of the Province of Grosseto, in particular the territory of the Municipalities of Orbetello, Manciano and Magliano in Tuscany. The phenomenon, already intensifying from the early afternoon hours, led to a rapid rise in the level of alert relative to the river Albegna - which in the evening overclimbed in the locality Marsiliana - and to the sudden saturation of the secondary water grid persistent in the affected area. The mayor of Orbetello, in particular, constituted the Municipal Operating Centre and ordered the evacuation of all the houses located in the area of the municipal territory that are included between the left bank of the river Albegna and the torrent Magione. The evacuation involved about 40 people, who spent the night at the sports hall in Orbetello, while three families were housed at a local hotel. Some sections of the road, including provincial road No 101, were quickly closed in the section between the bridge over the Sgrilla stream for about three kilometres. At around 21, after the water level of the river Fosso Poggio Capraio, a tributary of the river Albegna, had significantly retired upstream of the Marsiliana, a car partially covered with mud and water was found in Sgrilla, with on board the exanimous bodies - presumably due to drowning - of two sisters. On the day of the next 15 October, after the first aid phase to the population, the interventions focused on verifying the damage to infrastructure and buildings, both public and private. The situation was constantly monitored by the Coordination Assistance Centre, which remained active until the evening of 16 October. About the cloud in Parmense, on Monday 13 October, the phase of attention for hydrogeological and hydraulic criticality - concerning, moreover, the entire Emilia-Romagna Region - has rapidly evolved with the activation, around 16, of the phase of alarm limited to the Province of Parma for the flood of the Parma and Baganza streams. Consistent information, at the same time received from the managers of the Interregional Agency of the River Po and the Technical Service of the basins of the tributaries of the Po, led to the opening of the unified operating room of civil protection and of the Coordination Centre rescue, which at 5 p.m. met in plenary session under the coordination of the prefecture of Parma. In that place emerged the need to control the full dread of the river Parma in the capital and, subsequently, downstream of the same. Around 6.30 p.m., the predicted watercourse reached the height of full water in the city, equal to 3.92 meters (an absolute measure never recorded before), however contained by the timely and effective controlled release maneuvers operated on the expansion chest in Marano, upstream of the city, without which the hydrometric level would have been quite different, with disastrous consequences for Parma and its inhabitants. The immediate but temporary restoration, by means of bags of sand and tarpaulins, of the defense side of the railway bridge, damaged by the flood, was arranged, and some critical findings were taken into account in the peripheral districts of the capital placed at the confluence of the two streams. In particular, Baganza was partially exondated in peripheral and confined areas, leading to the evacuation of two families as well as the guests on the ground floor of a nursing home that were transported to the upper floors. On the other hand, all the bridges of the city, except one, remained open; the underpasses at risk were guarded; the road system, even congested, was practicable and the railway line was active. The subsequent indications from the hydraulic bodies required to evaluate with extreme attention the repercussions downstream, in particular in the municipalities of Torrile, Mezzani and Colorno. In fact, the first projections suggested a further emergent phase in Colorno, with flooding of the town and the eighteenth-century palace due to a full wave expected at 0.30 hours. In the light of this forecast, it was possible to find and transfer to the locality very quickly plundering and ground-moving machines as well as the personnel of the regional mobile column of civil protection. Around 3.30 am the emergency came to cease for the passage of the full flood without the feared flooding, also thanks to the timely and massive operations of plundering and liberation of the ancient bridge present there from branches, trunks and various debris to eliminate any obstacle to the outflow of the water. Subsequently, the situation that had arisen for the limited exondation of Baganza emerged in its totality and ensured that, between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. on day 13, about 300 millimeters of rain had fallen on the Parma and Baganza valleys, equal to more than a third of the usual rainfall recorded over a whole year on the same territory. It had been an unprecedented event that had led to an increase in the hydrometric levels of the homonymous streams whose flow rate had almost fivefold in just over an hour. For the removal of the mud, in addition to all the heavy vehicles put on the field and the approximately 400 civil protection volunteers, operating in total until the last days, spontaneously joined the students of the high schools of the capital. About the storm in Trieste, in the night between Tuesday 14th and Wednesday 15th October a rainy precipitation of very strong intensity fell on the Province of Trieste. The rains have caused flooding in many areas of the capital - including the central piazza dell'Unità d'Italia and the prospiciente promenade - and the nearby Municipality of Muggia, with consequent blocking of the circulation on some important roads, including a stretch of the state road n. 202 and the stretch of the provincial road n. 14 that reaches the state border. According to data from the Regional Meteorological Observatory, over four or five hours, rain fell past 123 millimeters in Muggia and 115 millimeters in the Julian capital. In view of the duration and intensity of the precipitation, this would have been the most significant event of the last twenty years in the Province. Houses, basements and shops of the two city centers were affected by the floods and, in Trieste, the opera house Giuseppe Verdi, the major hospital, the local morgue and the subway of the railway station. The fire department's intervention was immediate. The seven operational teams in the province were engaged throughout the night and during the following day by almost 200 calls for flooding homes, cellars, garages and shops, as well as for checking the static stability of buildings, fences and slopes. Unfortunately, the cloud has caused a victim in the municipality of Muggia, hit by a flow of mud and debris. The landslide, coming from the slope behind the house, knocked down the walls of one of the edges of the house, filling the premises with about five, six cubic meters of muddy material. The mass of mud, trees, shrubs and debris, which poured over the house, has also invaded the public road in front of it, curving in the elevator at the service of the house that it has been implucing. An investigation by the judiciary was launched on the episode, to ascertain any responsibility for disassembling the slope. The static checks of the area affected by the landslide were carried out by the technicians of the Civil Protection of the Autonomous Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, to the result of which it was not considered necessary to evacuate the inhabitants of the buildings of the area. The situation has slowly normalized during the day of Wednesday 15, also thanks to the interruption of precipitation. As for the initiatives put in place to deal with the hydrogeological failure, the issue of the contrast to the hydrogeological failure is at the heart of the government's political agenda since its establishment. The Government has set up, in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, a special mission structure against the hydrogeological failure and for the development of water infrastructure, with the specific task of giving a strong acceleration to the implementation of the interventions of security of the territory, the immediate and targeted use of the funds available still not spent, and of supporting the new programming of resources for the European cycle 2014-2020. For the same purpose, the so-called competitiveness decree has entrusted the responsibility for the realization of interventions to the Presidents of the Regions, as extraordinary commissioners delegates, assigning them the ownership of the special accounts with which to manage the funds. The Governors were also entrusted with further authorisation powers, with the aim of simplifying and speeding up the procedures for securing the territory. Decree-Law No 133 of 2014 has made ordinary the assignment to the Presidents of Region of functions for the interventions of mitigation of the risk of hydrogeological failure and, at the same time, has started a process of reconnaissance of the state of implementation of all the actions financed also on date before 2009 in order to proceed to the revocation of the economic resources not yet used, with the objective to channel the same on equally urgent but immediately cantierabile interventions. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, the Government's action follows two lines of action. Firstly, the recovery of resources allocated since 1998 to the various levels of government, aimed at hydrogeological failure and not yet used. Secondly, the programming of new resources from the new cycle of the Development and Cohesion Fund 2014-2020. Again, the objective is to give a significant and effective acceleration to the works in this field. By June of this year, the planned but not yet completed resources started at the yard amounted to EUR 2,312 million, of which EUR 308 million for operations planned before 2009, EUR 785 million for regional operational plans and EUR 1,219 million from the 2009-2010 programme agreements. In the programming of the Development and Cohesion Funds 2014-2020, on the basis of the indications of the immediate interventions that meet the requirements of Law No 147 of 2013 inserted by the Regions in the information system RENDIS, for a total amount estimated in about 7 billion euros, the Ministry of the environment has made a request of more than 4,5 billion with forecast of regional co-financing of the residual amount of approximately 2,5 billion euros. An amount of around €1,100 million was also requested for soil protection measures coordinated with green infrastructure. To these sums is added the demand of 138 million euros previewed for the participations of defense of the ground inserted in the agreements of program signed with the Regions of the Center-North in 2010, that, to date, have not been allocated with CIPE resolution and have been only in part already anticipated for the amount of 50 million euros with budgetary resources own of the Ministry of the environment. The new seven-year programming, linked to the new cycle of the Development and Cohesion Funds 2014-2020, will be structured through a system of framework programme agreements between the State and the individual Regions, with a governance that includes, also for the coming years, the Presidents of the Regions as Commissioners of Government. This will ensure the necessary transparency and operation both in the development phase of programme agreements - with particular reference to project collection, validation and selection activities, financial and technical monitoring - and in the management phase. With the reform of the Basin Authorities and the establishment of the River Districts, which the Government considers a priority, it aims to strengthen the role of the Water Basin Authorities as a reference point for research and technical and technological study carried out in the various scientific fora, internal and external to the public administration, in close collaboration and integration with the ISPRA, and, therefore, as a validation authority of the design of interventions against hydrogeological risk. Also with reference to the new programming, the guidelines for the collection of projects proposed by the Region and, therefore, for a technical selection that takes into account the cost-benefit analyses of the individual interventions, according to the European directive on floods. Dear senators, the hydrogeological disaster opens painful wounds in our country. From the first day of activity, this Government looks at the problem of the security of the territory as an absolute priority, as a moral duty towards the citizens, but at the same time as a complex path, which requires patience and seriousness. The events of these last weeks urge us to move forward, not to stop at the ballet of responsibilities, which must be verified with rigour and severity to the end, but which do not solve alone an Italian structural problem such as the fragility of its territory, aggravated by decades of carelessness and man's foolish choices. We want to move forward: to change the rules, to spend immediately and entirely the funds at our disposal, to plan new ones according to the needs of local communities. We want to simplify drastically procedures that make the necessary interventions difficult, to eliminate bureaucracies that block for a quirk an indispensable work for the safety of citizens. Unfortunately, we have too many examples of this. In my information I can certainly not forget how many other episodes of bad weather have hit Italy in these months, I think of the Gargano, Refrontolo in Veneto, Senigallia; there, as in the most recent misfortunes and in the most distant ones in time, we have seen citizens ready to roll up their sleeves to help those in difficulty, to help the neighbor, to rebuild where the flood had destroyed. I firmly believe that these great lessons of dignity, these examples of brotherhood and courage cannot leave us indifferent. I think it's rather a qualitative leap in all of us. That is what I am asking Parliament. We are talking about a subject that is too important to divide, to make the controversy and logics of partisanism prevail. I hope that the debate on the motions that have been tabled, which will follow my information, can be held in a constructive spirit, despite the diversity of views, and taking into account the importance of a common, immediate response to a national problem. The citizens are asking us for answers and our reaction must be swift and of absolute responsibility. For my part, I can guarantee that the Government is present and will do everything in its power to overcome this challenge and regain the confidence of the people affected by adversity. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u12	We greet and welcome to the Senate the students and students of the middle school "Fresa-Pascoli" of Nocera Superiore, in the Province of Salerno, who are following our works from the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u13	Let us turn to the illustration of the motions presented. I call Senator Di Biagio to explain motion 178 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u14	Madam President, kind Minister, thank you for the full evidence and information you have presented in your speech, a guarantee of the attention of the Government to the topic, also through the targeted interventions announced on an issue that presents profiles of great criticality. In our country, unfortunately, this issue no longer represents - I say it provocatively - an emergency, because the emergency is something sudden and unexpected and, tendingly, in time. In the case of the hydrogeological failure, instead, we are faced with a structural characteristic of our territory, so we face cyclically, or rather seasonally, emergent states determined by landslides, floods and floods, which do not resolve - we know - with a cure of the emergency, which remains only an aspect - of course important - of the problem itself. We have long known that our soil is vulnerable. The Italian soil is vulnerable for various reasons, which relate, on the one hand, to a human intervention too often reckless and to an equally irresponsible carelessness, and, on the other hand, to the current climate changes that affect the entire planet. The policies of attention to the government of the territory are, in this perspective, fundamental and indispensable both for the correct and balanced environmental development of the country, and for the not negligible consequences that the environmental events of calamitous have on the territory itself and on the citizenship. As I pointed out in the motion at my first signature, the data are very clear: there are more than 29,000 square kilometers of national territory that present high aspects of hydrogeological criticality. More than 10 million people live in inhabited settlements built on these areas, while more than 40 percent of the municipalities have areas of high seismic risk. In this way, the dramatic emergency taking place on almost all of the national territory, the consequences of which, in terms of loss of human lives and economic damage, are known to all. However, this vulnerability situation is not only an Italian feature. As highlighted in all the motions submitted, there are many policy actions defined in the European framework on the subject. As early as 2009, the European Commission adopted the White Paper "Adjustment to Climate Change: Towards a European Framework for Action." More recently, on 20 November 2013, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Decision No 1386 on a general Union environmental action programme up to 2020, entitled "Living well within the limits of our planet'. The Decision highlights the significant challenges arising from non-sustainable land use throughout the Union and reiterates specific objectives to be achieved by 2020 on environmental protection, as well as the need to ensure investment in support of environmental and climate policies. As you have also pointed out, Minister, the National Strategy for adapting to climate change, which in recent days has come to the examination of the State-Regions Conference, for serious environmental protection in a key to sustainability, has long been drawn up. This protection must be articulated in a wide-ranging investment network that affects the different levels of criticality; it is necessary that they are properly implemented at national level by the Member States. For this reason, too, by sharing and appreciating the commitment made by the Government and by you, Minister, on this issue, we wanted to strengthen the positive intentions expressed on this subject, pointing out specific commitments, which want to support an approach that - I repeat - we appreciate and share. Our motion therefore commits the Government, in the first place, to devote resources to the implementation of the extraordinary plan of interventions for the safety and redevelopment of the national territory and of the public and private housing exposed - unfortunately - to seismic and hydrogeological risk. In fact, as you yourself pointed out, we need resources. Secondly, coordinated initiatives are needed and, also on this, the Government has shown attention, defining a directional cabin; it needs coordination with all the actors involved - i.e. the regions and local authorities - that can define a plan of works, at least twenty years old, that takes into account - clearly - also the forecasts of the National Strategy of adaptation to climate change and that provides for the safety of the national territory through a full estimate of the areas to intervene, of the works and of the related costs, as well as the identification of the interventions on the basis of technical indices that determine its priority. However, it is also necessary to provide for a reasonable annual allocation of resources for the optimisation of the national territory and, for this reason, we have requested an annual allocation of resources and the evaluation of an intervention aimed at binding a share of the state budget to the establishment of a guarantee fund for the economic activities existing in the territory object of seismic and hydrogeological event. All these measures can find appropriate articulation in the 2015 Stability Act, which is at the door. Among the legislative review measures, it would also be appropriate to promote a review of the provisions on controls on the behaviour of individual citizens, but also of public administrations, including the introduction of sanctioning mechanisms in the event of non-compliance by public administrations, and also to develop an efficient system of combating abuse and savage edification. The legislative review should also cover the procedural process of the works, in order to allow in short time the realization of those interventions of pre-eminent interest for the protection of public safety and of the territory. In this context, the Government's commitment must certainly be directed towards fully implementing the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy, providing adequate funding and operational coordination powers for the Ministry of the Environment. Finally, it is necessary to strengthen the link with Europe and, in this sense, the Italian Presidency is a great opportunity to pay close attention to the issue, urging the adoption of effective and effective measures, aimed, for example, at defining in Europe the organic and permanent exclusion of all interventions for hydrogeological reorganization from the Stability Pact, as essential infrastructure for the development and security of the country, overcoming those impediments that too often hinder the action and effectiveness of the Government. There is a clear path of actions to be undertaken, on which we commit the Government and assure our commitment to the Government itself and to all political forces who want to put themselves at the service of the common good in this framework. So, as you said, Minister, we will be constructive and, for this reason, I should like to point out that we are already ready for a joint motion which can give citizens the necessary signal of unity in the face of a problem which concerns everyone and on which we are all called to bear responsibility. [[Applause from the PI, PD and SCP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u15	I call Senator Fucksia to explain motion 253.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u16	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2013, natural disasters resulted in 22,000 deaths worldwide, with estimated damage of around 119 billion dollars. In Italy, between 1963 and 2012, 782 municipalities suffered floods and landslides, which caused more than 6,000 deaths including deaths, wounded and missing, and more than 420,000 displaced and homeless (CNR data), with an average cost of 0.2 percent of annual GDP (OECD 2012 data). The recent episodes of Genoa, Parma, Tuscany, Veneto and other places are only the epilogue of a long list of floods that only in this 2014 have caused already 13 victims; of these, three occurred during the flood of Senigallia last May 3 when, due to intense rain, occurred the break of the right bank of the river Misa and, above all, the overflow of the river Triponzio, which determined a tremendous wave of water and mud that hit the south of the city, in particular several fractions, countryside and much of the valley bottom, with flooding of roads and considerable damage to homes, businesses, schools and health facilities. Overall there were 99.355,000 euros of damage. Unfortunately, the facts described do not represent, for Senigallia, a novelty. Senigallia is vulnerable to rain. I quote a few lines from a page in the newspaper "La Stampa" in Turin, September 13, 1955. Following a flood, from the casinos of Ostro for 11 kilometers there is a sea of water and mud. Casine di Ostro, Bettolelle, Vallone, Borgo Bicchia, Bassa di Ripe, Brugnetto, Cinnella, Senigallia present a spectacle of equal desolation. The Turin newspaper continues remembering also the death of a person and an ecatombe of animals and adds that "tens of houses have been evacuated in haste while many anxious people have fled to the top of the buildings to escape the water". Gentlemen, a newspaper from the 1950s describes the same scenes of destruction and death as today. This means only one thing: since then little or nothing has changed. In fact, if anything has changed, it's been worse. In the last report of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), on soil consumption in Italy, in our country there is a land consumption of 70 hectares per day. More than seven square meters of green per second disappear! In this context the Marche Region in particular recorded one of the highest data, reaching 10.2% of the area consumed. In the 1960s in the Marches, the agricultural area covered 92 percent of the regional territory, today only 69 percent. We have increased from 900,000 hectares of agricultural land to 671,000: a negative balance of 229,000 hectares in favour of cement and sheds, today in many cases empty and unused. Over the past fifty years there has been a 240 - percent increase in the cemented area in the Marches, compared with a 15 - percent increase in the population. The data is commented on by itself. He's cemented himself more than he needs. To complete the picture, I remember that, in addition to bad speculative building, the Marche are among the 10 regions with the highest number of corporate failures, feeding considerably, with 379 failures in 2014, the pressing pace of the 61 companies per day, over two hours at national level that disappear from the market. There is not only the senseless anthropization of the territory to the detriment of the river areas; there are, besides the abuses, also the lack of rules, apart from those already contained in the Royal Decree No. 523 of 1904 where it was well specified that the golenal areas, those which normally the rivers fill when they are in full, must be left clear. It was not necessary, therefore, to establish us neither productive activities nor housing. But in addition to that, there are also the inadequacy of the competent offices, where no one puts his face and takes responsibility for it, with executives and officials engaged in taking 2 percent of incentive without the responsible spirit of the good father of the family in science and conscience, and doing works to justify expenses and not to do what would be most useful and logical. Managers who, in order to design their own house, call other professionals, who would not even be able to design the dog's bed, but who put their hands on bridges and palaces and judge the work of others. Result: According to Legambiente, 99 percent of the Marche Municipalities are classified as hydrogeological risk. The simulation of the theory is something else than a done thing. In Marche there is a lack of regional urban law that serves as a framework for soil protection and hydraulic invariance. The decisions are left to improvisation (no urban law for twelve years, then maybe they will do it a month after the next regional elections). A concrete example of this disorderly policy: the Giano River in Fabriano. If the city of Fabriano itself exists, it is due to its presence. For centuries the city has absorbed its characteristics, drawing lifeblood and labor force: settlements of paper mills, cones, forges, vegetable gardens and many other activities. Fabriano took shape and modeled around his river. Then this indissoluble thread with the city broke. The city turned its back on the river, reaching its grave. Now work has begun to bring it back to light. It is not only a matter of beauty, landscape, culture and history: it is a very important signal that prevents the damage of hydrogeological failure caused by cementification and forced manipulation of nature. The rivers must be left in peace and flow into their beehives. In Fabriano the Committee was formed three years ago to discover the Giano, whose motto is "The river is life," we revive Fabriano. Well, if we succeed in achieving something, it will be thanks to dozens and dozens of citizens and serious professionals who are committed to understanding and proposing solutions, asking without having an answer. These are the voices unheard in the silence that precedes every flood, are the past, the story that is ignored until the tragedy arrives and emergencies are mobilized. But - we know well - this is a problem that affects the whole country from North to South, with over six million citizens in areas at risk of hydrogeology. The failure can only be remedied by a policy of land improvement, redevelopment and respect. There is no need for concrete gabbions or walls: every element of sclerotization of the territory carries an increased hydrogeological risk. We will turn the page on soil protection and prevention of hydrogeological risk only when the issue will be addressed three hundred sixty-five days a year, and not - as it is punctually happening - only after the tragedies, with the theater of the hindsight, of which the pits are full! After every calamity, with the resonance of the media, phase 1 starts, the post-event one, where dramas, emotions, the exchange of generalized accusations, requests for help, meaningless justifications, the assumption of commitments that will never be completed and the allocation of money that suddenly are available. Then? Then comes phase 2, the one with no microphones and cameras off. But also the one where there's money to handle. My colleagues probably know that, precisely because of the frequent flooding of the river Misa, since the 1980s, with the then resources of the FIO (Invest and Employment Fund) were allocated about 16 billion of the old lire for the project of the Misa expansion and rolling chests. The project was planned by the Aquater company of the ENI group, but never realized, hostage of the institutional ping pong. Follow me: after a phase of first regional management, the same Region delegates the Municipality of Senigallia. The Municipality, after years of stalemate, returns the delegation of the realization of the work to the Region. Subsequently the Marche Region sends the delegation to the Province of Ancona. This in 2009 finally approves the final project (in fact, it is another project, with a cost of 130,000 euros). In 2010, the environmental impact assessment procedure, which ends the following year, begins in 2011. Now we are at the end of 2014, and nothing has been achieved. In the meantime, in May, it reaches out to the river and causes three deaths and 100 million damage! Now here we are again, in this macabre game of goose, to pass again from the road. President Renzi, who always likes to quote Germany as an enlightened example to follow, forgets to look in Berlin also with regard to environmental policies and protection of the territory. The government of Merkel, in fact, has indicated a great objective on the subject: to reach zero consumption of territory in 2050. What about Italy? Here, although there has been no Minister of the Environment in recent years who has not shouted, especially in the face of disasters already happened, how urgent a law is, still nothing. The 5 Star Movement has presented a bill that provides for the zeroing of soil consumption, there are also other proposals; how about to schedule them, a good time? It's crazy to have to start over every time, to disaster. Faced with reasonable, operational, appropriate proposals for the protection of the territory, the 5 Star Movement will support them. In the face of anti-environmentalist measures such as the unblocking Italy (or sphascia Italy), which says yes to drilling and deregulation for soil consumption, we can only oppose to overflow. In the meantime, with this motion, we call for the Government to commit itself: firstly, to provide contributions for the repair, restoration or reconstruction of damaged buildings; secondly, to exclude from the Stability Pact resources to cope with the flood emergency (in this regard, I express solidarity with Enrico Rossi, young Mayor of Cartoceto, a country of 8,000 inhabitants in the province of Pesaro and Urbino, who shouted: "I do not want another Genoa", last week it remained hoisted on a crane on hunger strike, to signal to everyone the delay in the beginning of the works of reconstruction of the city walls, damaged by a flood of two years ago: delay due precisely to the Stability Pact, bureaucratic pastures, judicial appeals); third, to prepare a national program of security of the territory, fourth, to strengthen the coordination of the various bodies and bodies that have competence in the maintenance of the territory, fifth, to transfer the resources from the emergency to simplified prevention. They are long-term objectives shared with certain funding. Enough with rising estimates, enough with appeals and counter-criticism and endless stories without happy endings. Last but not least, Italy participates in many multilateral banks, including the Council of Europe's Development Bank, which we reserve a percentage share of about 16%, one of the highest among all states. Nevertheless, of the 28 projects approved in 2012 by the Board of Directors of the Bank, for a total of almost 2 billion euros, none concerned Italy. Think of it: among the areas of intervention of this institute, environmental or ecological disasters are explicitly included. With this motion, the Government undertakes to evaluate the opening of a credit line in favour of the territories of the Marches affected by the flood. A palliative, since - according to estimates of the plans of hydrogeological order - to secure the national territory would take at least 40 billion. Our President-in-Office's slides are now well known to be always very clear and incisive. But unfortunately they struggle to become real images. What happened, for example, to this beautiful slide with which at its debut at Palazzo Chigi had promised a billion and a half euros for the protection of the territory? [[Senator Fucksia shows a paper bearing the inscription "The economy carried out - Terra firma, 1.5 billion for the protection of the territory - Mission Unit since 1 April." Applause from Senator Bisinella]] I therefore ask you today to follow this slide, which is not of the 5 Star Movement but of President Renzi, and to approve this motion, because Senigallia, the Marches, the whole of Italy, can no longer afford the luxury of waiting. [[Applause from the 5 Star Movement and Senator Bisinella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u17	I call Senator Ruta to explain motion 308 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u18	Madam President, I should like to begin by making a few premises. In September 2006, the European Commission adopted a thematic strategy for soil protection and a proposal for a framework directive on soil, aimed at ensuring its sustainable use and protecting its fundamental environmental, socio-economic and cultural functions. Secondly, in November 2007, the European Parliament approved, at first reading, the proposal for a framework directive on soil with a majority of about two thirds, but a minority prevented progress in the Council, despite the support of more than 20 Member States. Unfortunately, in the last eight years there has been little progress on European soil policy and the degradation of this limited resource continues in all European countries. Recently, the European Commission, despite its commitment to achieving soil protection, withdrew from its agenda the proposal for a framework directive on soil; while the European Parliament and the Council adopted Decision No 1386 of 20 November 2013 on the VII Environment Action Programme up to 2020 - Living well within the limits of our planet - which is a declaration of intent binding on the environment. This Decision underlines that soil degradation, fragmentation and non-sustainable use in the Union are jeopardising the provision of several important ecosystem services, threatening biodiversity and increasing Europe's vulnerability to climate change, natural disasters and desertification. The European Union Biodiversity Strategy envisages a new and ambitious plan to halt the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services in the Union by 2020 and new Millennium Sustainable Development Goals with which Europe intends to send a message on the universality of the principles of sustainable development. The Europe 2020 strategy, endorsed by the European Council in 2010 and currently under review, highlights, inter alia, the need to create the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. European Commission President Juncker also promised to launch a €300 billion public and private investment plan for the Union's new economic strategy by February 2015. In this strategy it would be necessary and appropriate to stress the importance of soil as an economic resource, both in terms of its productivity and food security of the Union, and because its defence has a fundamental role to fight the hydrogeological failure and reduce the very high costs that its unwise use has produced to date, both in Italy and in other European countries; I would also like to point out that soil protection contributes to ensuring food safety and agricultural productivity, the two underlying elements of the common agricultural policy financed by the Union, in the medium and long term. Moreover, the possibility of having common principles and a uniform European regulatory framework to define what is meant by sustainable land use would ensure greater protection of European environmental quality in all sectors and better soil management would allow for the articulation of research programmes at national and European level, optimising the use of funds for research and development, avoiding possible market distortions related to the different requirements, burdens and obligations in the Member States. Soil is a limited and substantially non-renewable resource, supporting the planet's life cycle; it has many essential ecosystem functions, such as food and biomass production, carbon storage and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere, filtering and buffering pollutants, creating habitats for biodiversity, supplying raw materials. It is one of the key components contributing to the richness of the European landscape and its cultural heritage. Soil is a natural resource and a common good to protect for future generations, to keep its social, economic and environmental functions intact; unanimous is the consensus of scientists and experts on the need to guarantee to the ground the same level of protection reserved for other environmental matrixes such as air or water, because the irreplaceable functions it carries out are crucial for the survival of people and ecosystems. Increasing parts of European soil continue to be seriously, and in many cases permanently, degraded with significant consequent costs, assessed by the European Commission in 2006, in the order of about EUR 38 billion per year. The phenomenon of soil waterproofing (with the effect that water flows superficially overwhelming everything on its path with disastrous consequences) and the phenomenon of soil consumption and degradation in Europe and Italy (the ISTAT census indicates that more than 300,000 hectares of agricultural land have been lost from 2000 to 2010) have grown exponentially, while the previous processes of industrialization and land management have left hundreds of thousands of contaminated sites in the territory of the European Union. On 4 October 2013, the Senate was also approved an agenda with which the Government undertook, in particular, to take initiatives of competence to ensure that additional resources were foreseen in the Stability Act for 2014 to be allocated to interventions of prevention from the hydrogeological risk and ordinary maintenance of the territory, identifying the financial mechanism able to guarantee its continuity every year, as well as to adopt initiatives to make changes to the regulatory framework in force in the unitary logic of hydrogeological defense, integrated water management and water management, assuming the initiatives of its own competence aimed at overcoming the current situation of fragmentation of land protection policies and of the national territory, simplifying the governance system. Moreover the fragility of the Italian territory is documented: the data supplied by the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea classify about 10 percent of the national territory with high hydrogeological criticality, that is at risk of floods, landslides and avalanches; the two thirds of the exposed areas at risk concern the urban centers, the infrastructures and the productive areas; more generally, and with different intensity, the risk of landslides and floods covers the whole national territory: 89 percent of the municipalities are subject to hydrogeological risk and 5.8 million Italians live under such threat. According to ISTAT data, the trend of soil consumption in our country has grown at impressive rates, equal to 244,000 hectares per year of soil devoured by cement and asphalt. In recent decades, there has been a continuous growth in urbanization, the spread of a often uncontrolled cementification, and the subtraction of their natural destination of floodable areas and of free, agricultural and wooded areas, which are instead principals for the keeping of the Italian territory, of which a very high price is paid whenever particularly intense rains fall on the country; a phenomenon that, due to the current climate change, is destined to intensify in the coming years. Climate change is no longer a future forecast, but a given of the existing one, which has changed forever what was once called the Mediterranean climate. According to the latest studies, including the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change (IPCC) and the European Environment Agency, the Mediterranean region will have to cope with particularly negative impacts caused by climate change in the coming decades. Our country is among the most vulnerable regions. The fragility of our territory, adding to the repetition of particularly intense atmospheric events, has caused the loss of numerous human lives and considerable damage, as has been dramatically verified, in recent weeks, in many Italian regions, among which the Liguria, now, despite it, the paradigm of what is happening in almost all the country. European-level initiatives to support national, regional and local climate change adaptation policies must be combined with the essential actions to mitigate and reduce climate-related gases. Italy is among the countries that are preparing a national strategy for adapting to climate change. The processing was initiated in July 2012 by the Ministry of the Environment and the process of acquiring the basic information ended in July 2014. During the Senate session n. 323 of 2 October 2014, in response to some immediate questions, the Minister of the Environment had the opportunity to underline to the Assembly that the available scientific data confirm that our country is particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, both those in place and, above all, those expected in the coming years, with negative effects on all environmental and socio-economic systems. In order to prepare the country and increase the resilience of natural and socio-economic systems, a complex and complex work has been carried out to identify the impacts, vulnerability and criticality resulting from climate change. The result of this long work will have to be condensed into the national strategy for adaptation to climate change, the formal adoption of which is expected to take place by October 2014. In this context, it is noted that the Government's intention to include in the Stability Act for 2015 the allocation of adequate resources to counter the hydrogeological failure and to unlock the existing ones is considered the need for an extraordinary commitment. In this regard, it is recalled that the withdrawal of the proposal for a framework directive on soil from the European Commission's agenda has prompted soil scientists to promote a petition, the first signatory Professor Fabio Terribile, who to date has collected more than 1,400 entries from scholars and researchers from European universities, academies and research institutes to ask the President of the Council of Ministers Matteo Renzi, as President of the Council of the European Union, to work for a new and immediate initiative aimed at the approval of the European framework directive for the protection and sustainable management of soil, also in view of the proclamation by the General Assembly of the United Nations of the World Soil Day on 5 December 2015, the international year of soils and the theme of Expo 2015 on the diet of the planet. The current Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is therefore a great opportunity to open a new road for the European Land Directive and therefore the motion commits the Government to take action, during the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in the Commission to open a close debate and resume the work of conciliation on the proposal for a framework directive on soil, so that the European Union can quickly reach the adoption of an incisive legislation aimed at protecting the soil and maintaining its capacity to carry out environmental, socio-economic and cultural functions. The motion also commits the Government to encouraging, in the appropriate European fora, within the Italian Presidency, the closure of the negotiations on the 2030 package with targets for reducing emissions, energy efficiency and the development of the production of energy from renewable sources, including the 40% reduction of climate emissions and to present, within the foreseen time, the National Strategy of adaptation to climate change and to report in Parliament on the results of the work carried out, as well as on the actions planned and those carried out to this end. It also commits the Government to take initiatives to allow the use of resources for land protection, prevention and maintenance interventions of the territory to be excluded from the financial balance relevant to the verification of compliance with the Internal Stability Pact, in order to allow the investment by local authorities in activities and works that have the primary aim of protecting the lives of citizens and protecting the socio-economic fabric of the territories concerned; to promote through the initiatives of competence, a reform of governance widespread in the field of hydrogeological risk and adaptation, giving full implementation to the current legislation, clarifying the tasks of the various technical and scientific institutions, eliminating the role of the various local authorities involved, coordinating local authorities, regions and central administration in planning for strategic macro-zones, such as urban areas, coastal areas, mountain areas, and ensuring a simplification of procedures and the necessary technical support to local authorities; to promote, through every useful initiative and with the provision of appropriate incentives and facilities, the role of territorial principals, national agricultural systems and green infrastructure in the action to reduce hydrogeological risk, through the recovery of abandoned land and investing in the return to agriculture of the young generations, and the provision of environmental management, the role of land and to promote the conservation of the existing works, and the role of the conservation of land and conservation of land and conservation of land. The motion contains commitments to provide for the Department of National Civil Protection, which plays an essential role in the increasingly frequent emergency situations that occur in our country due to floods, landslides and floods, the allocation of adequate resources to meet the different needs and to ensure, in favor of the Presidents of the Regions, in the functions of the extraordinary commissioners delegates for the realization of interventions to mitigate the hydrogeological risk, powers and resources adapted to the concrete and rapid realization of the integrated actions aimed at the safety of the territory, the reduction of the risk, the protection and the recovery of ecosystems and biodiversity... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ruta, I invite you to conclude. RUTA (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President. In addition, the resources necessary for the refreshment of citizens and local administrations hard hit by the calamitous events that have occurred over the past few weeks, in order to adequately address the difficult emergency situation and the rapid return to normality. It also calls for a commitment to promote, through every initiative of competence, the rapid approval of the draft law on the protection of the soil currently under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies such as the bill on the use and sustainable management of the soil assigned to the joint examination of the permanent committees 13a (territory, environment, environmental goods) and 9a (agriculture and agro-food production) of the Senate and to allocate, in the first useful measure, and in particular with the next law of stability for 2015, all the resources necessary for the realization of an extraordinary plan for the protection of the soil and the start of the set of works aimed at the mitigation of the hydrogeological risk and the safety of the Italian territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Tarquinio to explain motion 314.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u19	Minister, it is embarrassing to have to intervene for an area of Italy, the Gargano, in a context like what we live in the whole country for what happened in many other areas. It is dramatic, uncomfortable, but I would first of all like to make a general speech. We all have been complaining for twenty-five years and we continue to say that this is a tragedy, but nothing is done. It's everyone's fault, it's nobody's fault, but the problem is, and it's dramatic, very serious. We are all aware that we must intervene seriously with exceptional resources, putting aside other issues, because on this issue we play the future of the country. Italy is beginning to be no longer credible even for the structure of its territory, for the disruptions that affect the entire country. Perhaps we do not realize that, when we pursue employment, work and so on, if we allocate resources to a serious issue like this, we will solve both problems. At the same time, however, I must complain to you, who is Minister, but first of all is representative of the Government, that even today on the Gargano has not been declared the state of emergency or that of natural disaster, although the problems have occurred before the others. It is a lament without any localistic or regionalistic accent: I am simply disconcerted, because it is not possible that this happened. The fact that it will happen tomorrow morning or Thursday does not save the Government from responsibilities. I emphasize that the Region has done its part, and it has done it all. It is truly incredible to forget these people, as well as Genoa or any other area of the country. You yourself, Minister, as far as I know, have been to the affected territories of Gargano, you have been to San Marco in Lamis. The responsibilities of the administrations, in general, there are all, on the Gargano as in other parts of Italy, but they affect other bodies of the State. There are investigations into this for manslaughter at the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Foggia, which I do not know what they will lead to. But we have a duty to intervene. This part of Apulian territory is totally devastated, as you know. Agriculture is the most damaged, beyond the infrastructure as such: tomato production is virtually zero, despite the fact that in the province of Foggia there is at least 50% of Italian tomato production. No way! Even today there is no declaration of the state of natural disaster; therefore, there can be no reduced contributions, there can be no suspension or reduction in relation to agricultural credit; neither has the suspension of the type of levy for other activities been declared. It is such a situation that it has incredible and I put it before it, of course not shouting. I am shocked: I come from his own ancient school, politically speaking, so I am surprised that all this happened. The catwalk was there (I'm not talking about his, but about others): on the Gargano there was a race from everyone, but the next day they all disappeared, except the Region. I give credit to the Region that has done everything that belonged to it. For the Gargano there are funds: there are 156 million euros that are there, in the special funds of the Region; it is only necessary to clarify whether the responsibilities of the non-use belong to the Ministry or to the Region itself. I repeat that they are available, they are dying, like so many other money, like the resources, equal to 1.6 billion, about which Senator Fucksia has spoken, that they are still available; we have not activated even the 180 million that concerned the part before, the 30 million of 2014. You have made another structure in the Presidency of the Council, which has even become an obstacle and further delays the solution of the problems. I would like to make a sincere appeal to you, in addition to the approval of the motion for my first signature and those relating to other realities and beyond the fact that we are witnessing incredible situations: amendments have been tabled to the Chamber of Deputies by Apulian Members to fix at least the sums to be allocated to the Gargano, but these amendments have been rejected as inadmissible in the Italian unblocking measure. It is clear that we will resume them, but we would like certainties, beyond - I repeat - the approval of the motion; we would like to understand exactly for the Gargano, for Genoa and for all the other areas, what will be foreseen in the bill of stability; we would like certain moments, certain figures. You can't play on this anymore. Let's forget who ruled for 30 years. Today answers those who rule. And those who govern, since they speak so much, must also do much. It has to do a lot, in fact and in the data. This is what we expect, and this is what people expect, beyond any consideration. Of walkways, as far as Foggia is concerned, I haven't done any. I have tried from the first moment to move with motions and amendments, trying to bring those who have to do their duty and their part. To date, however, for that territory, only the Puglia Region has done the part. Minister, I have also heard you speak of regional co-financing. But, with all the affection, if we do not overcome some issues, some Regions will not be able to co-finance anything. I already note that we are talking about the elimination of the Stability Pact for the Municipalities and I hope that this will also apply to the Regions themselves, otherwise we are not there. We must take it seriously, and not make a useless list of a thousand problems and possible responsibilities, which is of no use to anyone. People, in the field of hydrogeological failure in Italy, are waiting for answers. Words and chatter are no longer of use to anyone. Even the minute of silence that every time there is a victim we see in this House becomes almost ridiculous, compared to the many victims. And I'm also referring to the induced victims, because these people are being abandoned. At a time like this, of the crisis of the country, we do not respond with concrete, real, immediate acts, and with certainties that give the real times of some intervention. And if not, honestly there is something to be disconcerted about. I speak for the Gargano, but I make the situation of Genoa and other areas mine. I try to be Italian and not to represent only a part of Italy. But I just want to tell you that this part of Gargano has been shocked to see the inertia of a government that, to date, has not issued the declaration of the state of calamity and emergency. What steps is the government taking towards the European Union to recover money from the European fund? There's no news. Are we moving or are we limited to the continuous list of troubles and the denunciation of the tragedy, without which nothing happens? I make an invitation and an appeal. I hope that there are certainties in the law of stability. Otherwise, this situation would really be unbelievable, and people would be absolutely right to kick us all out, including myself. In fact, one has the impression that everyone plays on misfortunes, that everyone is insensitive. It's not like that. Let us not foment the squares; let us speak in the proper places; let us not demagogie and let us not seek clientele, which are useless, whether they come from opposition or from the majority. But I expect, at a time like this, truths and certainties, and will have all my, and our, collaboration. I expect that in its future reply and in the possible unitary motion that will be made. It must, however, be a realistic motion, which seriously commits the Government and which contains certain and irrefutable data, that are then brought back within the law of stability, with certainties of the sums, everywhere destined, as well as the modalities of their use and the expected times. This is the real message that I send back to you. I have little more to say: seriousness on the part of everyone, but in particular on the part of those who govern us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PI groups and Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u20	I call Senator Donno, to explain motion 316 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u21	Madam President, it is a long list of dramatic phenomena of hydrogeological failure and violent floods, which have alternated in a syncopated succession just before and following the arrival of autumn: finally, the flood in Maremma, and, going back in time, the flooding and flooding of Parma, Alexandria, Genoa, Imola and Alta Romagna, to arrive at the apocalyptic scenery of Gargano. This motion, although it was tabled before the most recent events mentioned and specifically concerns the Gargano, acts, in its contents, as a reminder and at the same time as a warning. Madam President, I would ask you to draw the Minister's attention. If he speaks on the phone, he will not be able to deal with the motions later.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u22	I agree. I invite the Minister to listen to the senator's speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u23	WOMAN (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. This motion, as I said, is a reminder and also a warning for the realization of a common plan, which places a firm point, from the point of view of protection and aid, towards all those who, humanly and materially, have suffered these tragic and irreversible circumstances. The past 5 and 6 September, in Gargano, there has been an alluvial event with catastrophic dimensions: two deaths, hundreds of wounded, about 300 million euros of damage. Many in those days were the (your) catwalks, the selfies and the tweets, but nothing, I repeat, nothing concrete was done by the government to really help the citizens who suffered the events. The film is always the same: at the turning off of the spotlight and the lights of the political limelight, the media promises of the moment, as well as the pathetic parades of hypocrisy, come to an end in order to give way to the grotesque ripple of responsibility and, finally, to the condemnation of oblivion and forgetfulness of a territory torn from within, pierced to death. In addition to the widely understood citizenship, the most penalized band was that of the farmers: there has been a ruinous impoverishment of the land, rendered sterile and probably polluted by the disastrous and dragging power of the water, as well as very serious damage to the crops and olive groves, the green gold of Puglia. Entire crops of various species literally swallowed by the mud. Added to this is the mockery of insurance policies: before the calamitous event, many farmers, but also simple citizens (and this applies everywhere, throughout Italy), had concluded insurance policies including damages for natural disasters and atmospheric events. However, in spite of the reasonable and urgent need for protection and refreshment, at the time of the claim for compensation, the policyholders received the refusal of the reference insurance companies, due to the non-formal declaration of natural disaster of the competent institutions. Many municipalities have been hit in the Gargano: in Peschici the town beach has disappeared and the tourist villages have been literally disemboweled; not to mention the stadium Maggiano, whose infrastructure pours into a condition to say the least ruinous. Ulse and Kalena, two important territorial canals, have invested the bay of Peschici, carrying to sea everything: slag, shrubs, debris, scrap of all kinds, pieces of real estate, waste of all kinds. In San Marco in Lamis there were dozens of landslides, hundreds of displaced. In Vico del Gargano, the estimated damage was about 40 million euros and the scenario was chilling: blocked roads, non-existent roads, as well as a disastrous compromise of the precious citrus groves and local olive groves. Rodi Garganico, Vieste, Carpino, Rignano Garganico, San Giovanni Rotondo, San Menaio, Cagnano Varano: villages reduced to heaps of mud and debris, destined for isolation due to landslides and road blocks. The list of culprits is very long and the actions carried out in the hours immediately following the water bomb - as you called it - have been inadequate and untimely. The government, as proof of its pathological inadequacy, made only announcements and proclamations, without concluding anything. And this neglect refers, with memory, to the sad past: the situation of discomfort and abandonment in Emilia after the earthquake of 2012, L'Aquila and the terrible earthquake of 2009. Not to mention even more events dating back to time, more precisely 1997, with the earthquakes of Umbria, a region where there is still - absurdly - an emergency situation, almost twenty years later. Even the unacceptable alluvial events of the Gargano could be avoided: it would have been enough to visit the normative section of the website dissostopuglia.it to understand that the damage could at least be predicted and limited. As a demonstration of the existence of a substantial danger, in November 2010, between the Puglia Region and the Ministry of the Environment, a programme agreement was signed for the programming and financing of urgent and priority interventions for the mitigation of hydrogeological risk. The location of the interventions invested mostly the areas affected in September, namely the province of Foggia, between the Gargano and the Dauni Mountains, with the forecast of an appropriation of approximately 210 million euros. Well, in four years it has never been possible to convene the Conference of Services to gather the necessary documentation to start the works of mitigation of the hydrogeological failure. Still at a territorial level, the news released by the press has not been comforting. While last 9 September the Apulian Regional Council asked the Government to initiate procedures for the state of emergency, the regional authorities made known the necessary amounts for the support of the expenses already incurred for the urgent activities of safety, for the restoration of both the damaged infrastructures and the drainage grid, as well as those concerning the damages to the private and productive activities: a colossal amount equal to a total of 274 million euros. As if that were not enough, in relation to the whole issue, it also emerged the reasonable existence of criminal elements and Foggia's attorney opened an official file on manslaughter, manslaughter, violations of urban laws and omission of office acts. It is absolutely necessary to find those responsible, who cannot and must not remain unpunished. On 19 September last, the government promised that it would deal with the matter, but neither in the Council of Ministers of 19 September nor in the subsequent ones, even mention was made of the Gargano and the terrible flood that hit it. Yet, ironically, the Council of Ministers of that same day had dealt with the foggiano, but not in the desired terms, rather dealing with the construction and operation of wind power plants: it was thinking of the construction of wind farms and not the disaster of the Gargano. That's crazy. Gargano, in essence, has been removed from Renzi's list of priorities. He took it all back into the facts, earning himself the title of champion of rhetoric from scrambled. The statements made on September 13 sound, in fact, like real tricks to the backs: We must value what is beautiful in Italy and again: I won't leave you alone, the government will do its part. But when? Eighty euros to those who already have the money, eighty euros to future moms and eighty face of bronze! That's the truth. A vast area of the Mezzogiorno, severely damaged by an unexpected and problematic calamitous event, is waiting for urgent public funding. An estimated EUR 274 million is needed. Proclamations of facade without any consistency. Solidarity does not surround the emergency, nor does it heal the territory. It is time for the Commission to take real action. We need a real commitment. In the first place, and first of all, it is necessary to carry out a serious, thorough, reliable, but above all univocal reconnaissance of the damages that has suffered every single Municipality of the territory of Gargano. An investigation, this, which must not only be carried out with the use of every useful power in the possession of the Executive, but must also be done in immediate times: 30 days from the approval of this motion, and no more. Secondly, all the funds needed to restore damaged infrastructure must be allocated, both at national and European level, with a related assessment of the use of the Armed Forces. The priority must be given to civil housing, roads, bridges and all those structures that can accelerate the revival of productive activities, put to the test by what has happened. In this sense, it is essential to draw on the National Emergency Fund, with a simultaneous start to work which must be completed clearly and precisely: 60 days for start-up and 180 days for completion. Thirdly, there is an unbreakable need to have a reclamation, rehabilitation and maintenance plan for the canals. As my time is running out, I will announce that I will hand over the full text of my speech to the Presidency. In any case, I think it is appropriate to point out the incipit of every point. As a fourth point, the Commission must use all the powers at its disposal to fully implement the programme agreement of 25 November 2010, the one signed between the Ministry of the Environment and the Puglia Region. As a fifth point, it is essential to create a special tax relief scheme for people affected by disasters, through appropriate and effective action towards the Revenue and Equitalia Agency. In the sixth point there is the time factor: we ask for a strict respect for the timing of implementation of all the interventions described so far. As a seventh point, the Government will have to provide for exclusion from the internal stability pact for works planned by municipalities and regions. That's what you ask, what you have to do. There are thousands of people, families, small entrepreneurs, farmers, who are asking for and waiting for concrete help. Turning to the other side could be an unforgivable mistake. Do you feel like doing it again? Do you feel like stepping on all these people? If you feel sorry for yourself, do not vote for this motion. Don't vote for anything. Keep going like tanks. Sooner or later your conscience will ask you why. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u24	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the full text of your speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. I refer to the continuation of the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the related motions on the protection of the soil at another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u27	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking half, if I may say so, on a point of order, on a personal note and on a point of order. I would like to inform the House today that I have made a request to the Presidency Council of the European Union to ensure that the sanction of the deploration which was to be imposed on me on 14 October last year is lifted or cancelled. For this sanction there is no form of appeal in our national law, in stark contrast to constitutional jurisprudence and - most important - with the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. Having said that, which is clearly not the content of my speech, I would ask you, Madam President, to be able to attach to the report of the sitting a copy of the note which I have sent, in which all the innumerable violations of the Rules of Procedure which, in one way or another, have characterized the decision to impose a sanction not provided for in our law, in stark contrast to Article 7 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as Article 25 of the Constitution. In the letter, which I hand over to the Presidency to be attached, all the macroscopic procedural violations are expressly indicated. I would like to make this request in order to avoid tedious reading of a text which can only be referred to those willing who, in the case of tomorrow, intend to read it. Having said that, Madam President, I come to my request. I formally request that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure be convened in order to decide on the correct interpretation of Rules 12, 66 and 67 of the Rules of Procedure, in the light of the procedure followed by the Council of President in imposing the above-mentioned sanction. Why do I say that? From the reading of the Rules of Procedure - it certainly does not require a scientist or an apprentice of the law to say so - certain circumstances emerge. As for the first - and I shall begin quickly to conclude - the Presidency Council has no competence to impose censures on the events that have taken place in this House. Secondly, the procedure provides for the recall of the order, first, and the censorship, later, as a time of contestation of the accusations. This is so true that the senator concerned is guaranteed the right to intervene immediately to justify it. Precisely on the basis of those justifications, the President of the Senate, the only person entitled to exercise the power of order and censure for the facts committed in the Chamber, may, at his sole discretion, revoke the measure. I believe that, to keep quiet about other things, it is absolutely necessary to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Someone will shake their shoulders thinking: "What, at the end of the day, is a lamentation; it doesn't exist, what importance it can have," and so on. This, however, can be said by those who have a low regard for their own person. I strongly demonstrate that in disciplinary proceedings the rules must be respected punctually, not because I have (probably have it) a particular consideration of my person, but because, at the moment of letting free the power, whatever it is, to imagine and impose sanctions outside of any rule of law (despite the constitutional cover that assists the matter), inevitably affects the autonomy and freedom of individual parliamentarians. If tomorrow, for example, I were to address someone with the term 'useful idiot', would this be disciplinaryly sanctionable or would it be covered by the European Court of Human Rights which, in the case of Eon against France, considers this statement absolutely unappreciable, being legitimate exercise of the right of criticism? If we do not put rules to the exercise of disciplinary power, the freedom and autonomy of all the Members present here would obviously be undermined. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and Misto-SEL]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u28	The Presidency takes note of what you have said and authorizes you to attach to the report of the sitting the note you referred to.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u31	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I agree with Senator Palma's request that I also add a note to the documents, sent to all the members of the Presidency Council, with which I have limited myself briefly to highlighting the violations of the Rules of Procedure which have been put in place in the context of the motion of censure which was communicated to me at the last sitting of the 14th. I believe that the reasons are basically the same and, therefore, I just refer to the reasons set out by President Nitto Palma, but I would like to make a clarification. President Palma was right when he remembered that someone said, shrugging their shoulders, that in the end there was nothing wrong with censorship. I have no problem saying that these words were addressed to me by Vice-President Gasparri, who urged me not to be sorry, reminding me that in his political career he has received several complaints, and therefore considers little to be the target of a censure measure. I do not know the sensibilities of Senator Gasparri, but I know mine and I cannot imagine being the recipient of a measure, however, disciplinary that goes to harm my goodness and my stature as a politician without being given the opportunity to defend myself. What President Palma says is extremely correct, and I say it in a much simpler way: if the Presidency has the power to remove a number of senators from the Chamber or, in any case, to impose disciplinary sanctions that provide for the removal from the Chamber, this can alter the balance of political forces in Parliament. Some of the last measures have passed with a small majority. Well, as would be the case with a careful and studied examination of the measures and the outcome of the votes, the assumption by the Presidency and the Bureau of this power is likely to alter the balance of political forces in Parliament. I have presented this note, as well as undoubtedly to protect my goodness, also so that it does not remain in this Senate precedents and practices that can seriously and seriously compromise the progress of the work. That chair, President, is becoming, in my opinion, contagious. It is not by chance that even the impeccable, the majestic, the authoritative President Calderoli, to whom goes the recognition and appreciation of the entire Senate of the Republic, even she, at the last session, at the end of my speech in the discussion of the bill of conversion of the decree-law, let herself go to a comment, for the unusual truth and completely free. I believe that that chair authorizes you, Madam President, and all those who govern the House, but never go beyond the powers that the Rules of Procedure, the law, our country and the State attribute to you. I therefore believe that criticism of an intervention, and whether or not it was pleasing, is not possible for a President and I am concerned about this virus which is perhaps spreading within the framework of the Presidency Council. I do not know, but perhaps many of the components do not have the scientific expertise to read these brief notes, which have been prepared by my study staff; I do not know if they have adequate scientific tools, but in that case they document themselves and ask experts and, after they have had any clarification, they express their opinions. Before that moment, before understanding and knowing things, they refrain from doing so, so that they can give the Presidency Council the authority it deserves from the scientific point of view as well. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u32	The Presidency authorizes you to attach your note. I just want to make it clear that fortunately the Constitution guarantees to every citizen, regardless of their qualifications, that they can participate in the elections in this country and that there are also full competences in the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u35	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we join the chorus of hope and congratulations from all over the world for the Nobel Peace Prize awarded on 10 October to the seventeen-year-old Pakistani Malala Yousafzai. Already last year we had listened to his quiet and incisive words spoken at the UN in favour of education and children around the world without distinction of sex. For her ideas she was made the object of a terrible ambush taut by the Taliban, who shot her in the head. She miraculously survived, even though today she lives with a titanium plaque on her skull. The brutal attack immediately did not scratch one gram of its battle force in favour of the freedom of women and the education of all children. He gave evidence of this in front of the UN. He understood that the pen is stronger than the sword and that extremists are afraid of books and women. The award of the Nobel Prize was communicated to her in the classroom as she followed a chemistry lesson. He received congratulations from his teachers and comrades, and resumed his studies. She declared herself surprised at the award of the Nobel Prize, but also honored, proud and proud to be the first young woman to receive it. We thank Malala for reminding us that fate is in our hands. An example for all, especially for those who are losing the importance of universal values: peace and justice, overwhelmed by a society that gives more space to women half-cover than to a girl already woman. You have received congratulations from the Pope and the Italian Government, so I think it is appropriate that you also hear words of congratulation and sharing from this Chamber of the Senate and from Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u36	Thank you, Senator. The presidency of the Senate certainly supports the congratulations on this important fact. We all applauded the award of the Nobel Prize to Malala.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u39	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, today I have a story to tell about cyberbullying, which has been the victim of an overweight girl whom I will call Giusy, so as not to mention her name. I went to read the definition of cyberbullying, which is precisely defined as "any digital communication published or sent by a minor for the purpose of intimidating, embarrassing or hitting in any other way another minor." Well, in this case, alas, it is not a minor, but a "major" and I am here to speak for the last, because we are the saviour of the people against the arrogance of the mighty on duty. I read the message of Dad, who told what happened to his daughter: Politics and especially those politicians who play institutional roles should be an example for young people and fight to defend themselves against abuse and abuse. Yesterday my daughter, just 13 years old, posted a tweet in defense of Fedez, which has been the subject of attacks by Mr Gasparri and vice president of the Senate. The father continues by pointing out that: In this tweet my daughter simply tried to defend her idol, apostrophated by the honorable as a "colored thing." Obviously in the mind of a 13-year-old fan this offense was very serious, to the point that she herself tweeted: "Dear Gasparri, the colored thing is a clean and humble person unlike you that you are dirty and you believe it because you are a congressman." These are strong words on the part of a little girl, who thus considered to defend her idol, guilty of having realized the opening letters of the event "Italy 5 stars," emphasizing how a senator to attack her used her media force and her institutional power. Mr Gasparri, the father reports, replied with the following tweet to the girl: Less drugs, more diets, mischief. The father stated that he felt obliged to write a letter to Mr Gasparri. This gentleman called him "honorable"! "Dear" - I will not read the word "honorable" - first of all I wanted to say that my daughter fortunately does not use drugs. On the other hand, being a child could not make use of it since it mostly spends the time guarded by us parents. Ever since she was born, I have been trying to teach her respect for people and other people's ideas, just as I try to teach her how to defend her ideas and freedom with her teeth. I know, my daughter is overweight, just as I am overweight, but this, believe me, does not authorize you or anyone else to use this physical defect to make it the subject of ridicule. The message actually continues, but I do not go any further in reading. You, Mr President, were all too kind and kind to offer me time in this House, but I wanted to give voice to the latter, because they very often have no voice. In this regard I recall the time when the fiefs and barons were present, who with their strength oppressed and crushed the people even by committing unclean and deplorable acts. Fortunately we are not at that time, however, I do not know why, but this case brings back to my mind scenes of that reality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u40	I am sure that Senator Gasparri, as well as Vice President of the Senate, will have the opportunity to clarify his position on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u43	VACCIANO (M5S). Madam President, it is a few days ago the news of the arrest of six directors of the Green Holding SpA Group on the charge of peculate, for having appropriated 30 million euros set aside for the rehabilitation, the so-called post-mortem, of one half of the landfill of Latina, managed by Indeco, a company controlled precisely by Green Holding SpA. The other half of the Pontina landfill is managed by Ecoambiente, creature of the garbage magnate Manlio Cerroni, arrested last January together with the managing director. Two companies, eight arrests. With this intervention I intend to solicit the answer to the act of inspection union 4-00909, deposited on 25 September 2013, centered precisely on the Indeco company, its dubious management of the landfill, its co-responsibility in the pollution of the aquifer for the weakening of the network of wells placed to control the area. There was also a great deal of concern about the inclusion of the Latina landfill in the infringement procedure already opened for the Malagrotta landfill because of the barbaric practice carried out by Indeco of the landfill of such as, i.e. undifferentiated and untreated garbage, contrary to regional, national and Community laws. Just last week the European Court declared Italy also failing for the two landfills of Latina (Indeco and Ecoambiente) located in Borgo Montello, for the burial of shredded waste and the failure to stabilize the organic fraction, endangering the environment and human health. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President of the Region of Lazio Zingaretti, for having made statements following this report of condemnation, with which he reassures his voters and associates because, according to him, the savage spill at Indeco did not continue beyond 1 August 2012, expiry of the deadline set in the reasoned opinion of the European Court. Too bad that I myself am an eyewitness of outlawings at the Indeco plants well beyond the time limit considered by Community justice, as also reported on the act of inspection union for which I intervened. It is not necessary to trust only my word, since there are several videos on the net that testify to all this and constitute incontrovertible proof: I do not wear a jacket and tie, but I am the one who appears in the videos. In conclusion, to start giving answers I believe that it is an act due to those citizens who, in addition to being mocked by politicians and entrepreneurs, are those who materially live in contact with water, soil and polluted air. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u46	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on a matter which, to date, does not seem to have found a precise definition but, above all, a solution that takes account of the interests involved. I refer, in particular, to what emerged following the act of inspection union 4-00961, in the kind of written question proposed by Mr Bulgarelli, together with other senators - including myself - on 8 October 2013 and addressed to the Ministers of Labour and Social Policy, Equal Opportunities and Youth Policy, Foreign Affairs, Regional Affairs and Local Self-Government. The question in question, in fact, took note of how the Alisei NGO, in possession of the so-called suitability for the management of cooperation and development projects, in 2002 had activated a social building project in ways of assisted self-construction called "A roof for all" with the aim of offering a solution to the emergency housing of young Italian and foreign families with scarce economic resources. Moreover, what was meant by "self-construction" and "assisted," that is, on the one hand, a building initiative in which the house is built through the work of the future owners, men and women, even without experience in this field, who during their free time are on the construction site in order to build the house with their own hands, opposing the lack of availability of economic resources their own constructive capacity and their own free time; on the other hand, the presence of a permanent organization with the task of overseeing the project and ensuring the correct implementation of the constructive process. On that occasion, the House was reminded of the alleged responsibility of the Alisei NGO for the distraction of money in over a dozen sites in Italy for the self-construction of the project "A roof for all" and about the failure of other international projects of international cooperation, financed by public funds: moreover, this was how the protagonists of history, the self-constructors and the vice president of the cooperative "Mani Unite" were expressed. It was echoed, therefore, to the case raised in 2012 thanks to the obstinacy of the families of self-builders of Filetto (Ravenna), united in the cooperative Mani Unite, who, after having worked for more than two years to the realization of their houses and have been cheated for the disappearance of Alisei with much of the money necessary to finish the works, decided not to lose the hope of seeing one day recognized their rights and to occupy for 94 days and nights the dilapidated skeletons of the houses. There was also a light on the major irregularities committed by the Alisei NGO in relation to a considerable number of international and national projects, as well as a whole series of investigations and inspections undertaken against it and which, in some cases, led to the issuance of injunctions and or the withdrawal of contributions granted to it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, I assume you're soliciting an answer and not reading what you've already filed for the record. I'm telling you this out of fairness. Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Yeah, I'm making a reminder. If anything, Madam President, I leave the text to the record, because I would like it to be reported in full. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, you're authorized to do so. Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). From now on, the NGO Alisei will no longer be able to receive public funds to operate abroad, but what will happen to the families of Filetto self-builders gathered in the joint Mani cooperative is not known. The news concerning this case, in fact, tell us of meetings with the mayor of Ravenna, legal paths undertaken by all the involved subjects (the Municipality of Ravenna, Alisei, Banca etica and the cooperative Mani Unite) but of no definition of the matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish, Senator. Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). We would therefore like to have an answer and we are waiting for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We will ask for that answer. Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-334.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 14.04 a.m.
