ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the 11 September afternoon sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u3	I communicate that on 12 September 2014 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Justice: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law no. 132 of 12 September 2014 concerning urgent measures for dejurisdiction and other interventions for the definition of the backwardness in the matter of civil process" (1612).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u4	I note that Parliament is convened at 6 p.m. for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and two members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The sitting will therefore be closed at the end of the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u5	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the lines of implementation of the government programme. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have ten minutes available. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President for agreeing to the parliamentaryisation of the debate over the thousand days, the process of reform that the Government wants to offer to the attention of Parliament in order to allow us and our country to change not only the situation of this legislature, but also and above all the direction of the coming months, in a particularly delicate international and European framework. I said to change the approach of this legislature because the first reference must go to what happened in the first days, in the first weeks and in the first months of the work of this Parliament: stalemate on the election of the President of the Republic, difficulties in forming a government, difficulties in identifying a clear political majority following the election result and the consequences of it. To this was added the decision of the Constitutional Court, which intervened by changing the basic principle of electoral law and in fact making necessary a path of institutional and electoral reforms that already politics had repeatedly identified but which no one had actually achieved. Here, therefore, the priority, the urgency, the emergency of identifying a path of institutional and constitutional reforms was accompanied by the observation of the economic difficulties of our country. Until a few months ago, we could well say that the world was running, that the eurozone was running and that Italy was rolling; today the world is running a little less, corracchia, the eurozone is essentially firm, stagnant, and should reflect on itself and on the policies adopted so far. Italy has stopped the fall, objectively, but it is completely insufficient compared to the needs that our country expresses. Today, politics must stop chasing the ghosts of the past and take back a horizon, a vision, a planning, a breath, and that allows Italy not to live crushed on the emergencies of everyday life but can return to consider the future no longer as a threat as an opportunity. I said that the numbers are no longer devastating as before: in 2012 the government closed the solar year with -2,4%; in 2013, nine months ago, we were at -1,9 percent; the 0,2 accompanied by the sign "less" that we recorded in the first six months of 2014, is obviously completely insufficient. It may be enough to say that the path of fall has been interrupted but it cannot be enough to start again. In the coming months we will reasonably return to have the sign "+" ahead, but it will not be enough to grow a few decimal places: we are not simply here to change the sign from "-0," "to a "+0," "we are here - this is the meaning of the bet of this legislature - to leave the mark indelible on the organization of the State, on the freedom of enterprises, on the guarantees of the workers and above all on the great educational issue that must concern not only the aficionados or the workers, not only the teachers or the union representatives, but must first of all concern the women and men, the families of Italy and the ability of our country to continue, or better, more correctly, to return to make the school the point of restart of Italy. So, if this is true, having modified our external communicative message is not the result of a change of strategy, but it is as if in the first six months we had built the frame of the puzzle and in the next thousand days we had the desire to fill this puzzle with the missing pieces. It may be argued that this is not the right strategy and someone may argue that it would be necessary to vote. It is a position that we respect; in some respects it might even be, from a strictly utilitarian point of view, a good idea. But we believe that before the needs of a political party or a ruling group the interest of the country comes and that therefore any evaluation of the electoral transition must be preceded by the ability of this Parliament to decide what to do in the next three years. If this Parliament is in a position to try to make the right move and change things that have not been changed over the last few years, we are making a commitment here to take on a legislative horizon rather than a limited horizon. We ask here to get used to the concept of voting with the natural deadline of February 2018, preceded by the end of the thousand-day journey to the end of May 2017 and by an electoral campaign phase that allows political groups to reorganise themselves on the basis of the new electoral law and evaluations of the programmes that will be made. In short, in other words: we are not afraid of neither the judgment of the Italians, nor of the tight confrontation, of the "body to body" on all the individual themes; but we think that today, for Italy and for the Italians, it is correct to set up a reasoning that leads us to 2018, provided that we put in place the reforms necessary to modify not only the institutional and constitutional structures, but also the public administration, the tax, the justice, the work and that extraordinary educational issue that goes from civil rights to the management of RAI and the priorities for university and research. This is the meaning of the thousand-day program. We have a duty: to tell what we want to do and how we want to take Italy out of the sandbox in which it is located. And we have a right: to say that we make it strong not so much of an electoral legitimacy, because legitimacy gives it the Constitution and not the electoral result, but freed from a consensus that in the country has not equal since 1958 and that no political party has ever obtained in Europe during the passage of 25 May. There is therefore a priority today: to be able to withstand the impact of the hope that the elections of 25 May brought to this Senate and to the Chamber of Deputies and to ensure that the government uses that electoral dividend not for the purpose of curling up or interrogating, but to try to make a profound change in the daily lives of the people and our people. It is clear that, if this principle is shared, we must first say thanks to those senators and senators who, also fighting against a widespread feeling of tiredness and resignation, have written, in the last days of July and the first days of August, an extraordinarily important and relevant page in the life of our institutions, approving at first reading a constitutional reform that goes back, in its origin and in its strength (then you can share it or not) to seventy years of political-institutional debate. Those who know constitutional law and are not an expert on Sundays of these matters know perfectly well that, from the constituent Assembly, the Constitutionalists themselves discussed for a long time whether or not to accept a perfect bicameralism. And the choice that was made in that circumstance was not linked to a high and ideal compromise, but to a synthesis at least: on the one hand there were those who wanted the second Chamber as Chamber of Professions; on the other hand who wanted the second Chamber as Chamber of Territorial Autonomies. The perfect bicameralism was then a compromise of results and was not the ideal choice of the Constituent: just read the preparatory work of the Constituent to be aware of it and just be consistent with the debate of the last thirty years to understand that there is nothing authoritarian in the turning point that provides a different relationship between the powers and a different relationship between the Regions and the central state. Then you can share or not, and this is another speech, but you can't think of defining authoritarian a project and at the same time judge its execution slowed down: it is a sort of slow-motion coup, a sort of authoritarian drift with the moviola that is not credible in the eyes of anyone, less than ever of those citizens who have asked us to change. However, that is not the point for which I want to thank you first of all. The first point for which I would like to thank you is the symbolic value that that vote has meant and in some way expressed: at a time when the political class, starting from the Senate of the Republic and the senators and senators, agrees to question itself, gives the extraordinary message of good example to the citizens and citizens to whom we are saying, with the thousand-day program, that the time of retirement is over. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The retirement time is over for whom? It is over the time of the annuity for that trade unionist who thinks that it is not possible to halve union permits in the public employment; it is over the time of the annuity for those executives who think that you cannot put a roof on the superstips; it is over the time of the annuity for those magistrates who think that the 45-day working suspension is an insurmountable taboo; it is over the time of the annuity for those companies in the good living room that are convinced that the capitalism of relationship saves Italy, when it is only an open, fresh and finally willing Italy to welcome a profound innovation that will take our country out of the crisis in which we are. Therefore, the vote of the Senate in August this year was particularly important for the meaning it represents, as well as for the contents: the meaning of a country that sees the political class capable, for good and evil, of changing itself. I would like to start from this feeling of gratitude to tell everyone and everyone first of all that the Government - which I have the honour to preside over and of which I have the honour to be a part (and that yesterday, even symbolically, it chose to be with our children in the school benches to say that the educational one is the priority from which we depart) - must first say to itself that the power of income is over. Today we are full of interesting discussions on many intriguing sociological and geopolitical analyses. There are those who think - and I am absolutely willing to give course to this reading - that we have as a constituency, as a point of reference and strength a group of experts, commentators and editorialists who are explaining that everything is bad and that we will never be able to save this country. They are the "professionals of tartina" - as we have defined them - those who jump from one conference to another and who in the last 25 years have not noticed the fact that the most pernicious crisis since the post-war period was coming. They are the same ones who, when the crisis came, underestimated the impact and extent of the crisis. They are the same ones who (after the 25 years of discussion) imagined to respond to this crisis that was not up to the challenges we faced. They are the same people who now want to deny us the right to try to change the country with the excellent excuse that they never made it. Well, I respect the professionals of tartina, but the constituency that represents us and which encourages us is not this. He is not of the supposed experts, but he is the one of those who get up early every morning and, probably not knowing by heart the analyses of these learned and illustrious commentators, he runs companies, continues to invest in the future of the country, he continues to break his back to give a future to a story that has been a success story: it is the history of small and medium-sized Italian enterprise and it is the history of families that, regardless of the comment and consent of the great editorials, continues to believe that Italy has a future page ahead of itself extraordinarily fascinating. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups]] This is the starting point. We don't think Italy is a normal country. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The pause - which, as a great expert would say, is the moment when music stops to reflect - served exactly to demonstrate to those who had the need and pleasure to intervene that they probably referred to themselves. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from Senator Crimes.]] Italy is not a normal country because the specialty, specificity, extraordinaryness and exceptionality of our country allow us, despite every negative comment, to have extraordinary performances. In fact, despite the crisis of recent years, our country sees incredible demonstrations of strength in the export, innovation, research and engineering sectors. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. What movie did you see? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Yet, those of us who are not closed in the Palace, but go to the places of difficulty, to Taranto, Termini Imerese, to Gela and goes into pain because he is accustomed to doing so, he is able to see and read in that experience, in those people, the deep desire to start again. IN MAY (PI). What do you know? What did your government do? [[Applause from the M5S and LNP-Aut groups.]] [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u7	Senator Di Maggio, I don't admit any interruptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u8	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. For me it is particularly effective to respond to supporters of the theory of degrowth that degrowth is happy only for those who have never seen a company close because the bank did not give trust! It is particularly happy to speak of degrowth in this way for those who in recent years have never crossed the pain of a cassintegrate! [[Applause from the PD, NCD and PI groups.]] [[Live protests from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). Shame! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It is especially easy to continue to talk about happy degrowth for those who imagine to find in North Korea or elsewhere the great road to success! We think that the political, cultural and economic method that we can offer to our country's attention is different. It is of course a political, cultural and economic model that is based on respect and ability to dialogue, not to interrupt, to listen and to have different opinions and then to confront to see who really takes the votes. What we propose is a political, cultural and economic model capable of respecting the pain, words and silence of those who live everyday life. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] We are in a position to offer these people a thousand-day journey that starts first and foremost from institutional and constitutional reforms. It starts from there, because we know that these are the litmus test of a model - the Italian model - that we want to offer, not so much to the attention of the European Union, but to the attention of our children. Indeed, as long as we continue to regard the European Union and Europe as something different from us, we will make the typical mistake of those who think that this institution is something else. For me Europe are the streets of Rome, Florence, Venice, Gela and Valle d'Aosta. It is not imaginable to think that Europe is something different from us. If we think that Europe is something different from us, kind senators, ladies and gentlemen, we are making the most serious mistakes: we deliver our future into the hands of the Portuguese Commissioner or the Minister of Lithuania; we deliver our future into the hands of a technocracy from which we can save only one gigantic bet in the name of politics. This bet in the name of politics is made by us, also in the belief that we must remedy mistakes of the past; even some authoritative colleagues in this House have sometimes voted for measures or taken note of decisions that have come more as an imposition, or perceived as such, by Europe than as a conviction on our part. No, I propose a different path: I propose that you vote on those reforms that are right for our children, not because Europe is asking us to do so. I do not propose that you vote for reforms because there is a subject outside us, technocratic, alien and alienating, which explains what we have to do: I ask you to vote for reforms, to choose reforms because they are primarily for ourselves. And I come to the merit of the reforms of the thousand days, starting not from the constitutional reform, on which I have already had the opportunity to indicate the stakes and their historical strength and - let me tell you - also the symbolic value they assumed. I am starting from the reform of the electoral law that will be the subject of your attention in this very House. We think that it is right to proceed quickly with the electoral law, and not because we need it to go and vote. We'd be forgetting the thousand-day journey. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). No! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I understand that someone may be afraid to vote; we do not, but we are interested in Italians and not our party. AIROLA (M5S). Let's vote, then! Tomorrow, let's vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet! Senator Airola! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It is particularly pleasurable to play this social role and to find that there are some of you who have not changed compared to the direct television that I attended in August. MORONESE (M5S). Neither do you! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. No, we have not changed, because we continue to think - as we said from the first day - that the reform of the electoral law is not an attempt to derail, sneak and go to vote, but is much more simply an act of dignity of the institutions. This Parliament (not in this House, because it happened in the Chamber of Deputies), in your presence, has listened to the words of the Head of State, who had been re-elected for a few hours, who said... MARTON (M5S). Another one of the good ones! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. ...that the reforms, on which a political class had committed itself and on which that political class had failed, were a moral obligation to ourselves and to the citizens. GIARRUSSO (M5S). That's right! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Well, that kind of commitment that Parliament has made in common sitting I feel I must also make mine. I believe that there is room in the Senate debate to verify what can be verified, to change what can be changed. No one, first of all the Government, can assume the right to think that the electoral law is that of our electoral law... MARTON (M5S). No! SANTANGELO (M5S). Put on the scotch! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. ...because the electoral law comes from discussion and dialogue. But in this context the electoral law to be approved immediately is first of all the ransom of the institutions and - let me say - the recovery of a dimension of dignity that unfortunately, at some moments, has failed. CRIMI (M5S). Thank you! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Constitutional reform and electoral reform are not enough. At the end of the thousand days we want Italy to become a major player in foreign policy. I understand that there are some of us who have different ideas about foreign policy. The Augustan debate has also shown this. [[Senator Crimi's comments.]] I was impressed, I was very impressed by the choir of criticism we received as a Government, and I personally, when on 16 July, during an extraordinary summit of the European Council, the proposal to close the first package of nominations was rejected by the 28 Member States. Many were the choirs and comments: comments in some cases enthusiastic about people who claimed that Telemaco had finally come home empty-handed. I've memorized the published titles about it. It was said that Italy would not get what it asked and someone wondered how to ask for foreign policy for Italy. It was argued that, in the situation of economic crisis that we are experiencing, Italy should have aimed at a Cabinet dealing with monetary or more likely commercial issues or of relevance however linked to economic spheres. It's a position I respect. I think differently. First of all, I think that Italy must return to its dignity in the European debate by saying, in the framework in which we are, that foreign policy is not simply a policy between states: it is much more than we could have imagined. Do we realize what has happened over the last few months? Are we aware of the seriousness of the situation in Libya, which also has repercussions in domestic policy? Think of the incredible number of migrants who are reaching our coasts and who for 97 percent come from that region, a region in which a bloody dictatorship has been overthrown, but where a return to normality has not been guaranteed and where the unity of the country itself is today in a situation of difficulty, despite the commendable effort of Italian diplomacy, which is the only one to maintain its garrison within an embassy in the city of Tripoli. Think again about what is happening in Tunisia, where we made our first official state visit. It is in Tunisia that the Arab Spring was born and it is in that country that between 2011 and 2012 the crisis situation has been determined that we all know, comparable to the current one in terms of migration and it is precisely in Tunisia that the first Constitution was launched today. Then there is Egypt, where the Italian Government was the first to visit and this is because we think that the Mediterranean is really the place where we can return to give a soul to Europe and it is really what Giorgio La Pira called the continuation of Lake Tiberias: we think it is really the place of our foreign policy. But this is not enough. Let us think of Syria, Iraq and the dramatic bet of the Islamic caliphate, with a turn of the same international community, which a year ago was on different positions. A dramatic situation in Iraq where, at the end of a dual military intervention, the Government of al-Maliki failed to solve the problems and today we all support the Government of al-Abadi. On 20 August - as the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees of the Chamber and Senate met, in the presence of the Ministre Mogherini and Pinotti - I was in Baghdad and Erbil. Allow me to express a personal consideration. I approached politics when in 1995 - someone knows what I mean - in Srebrenica a group of blue helmets witnessed helpless - or so is supposed - genocide in the literal sense of the term, with women separated from men, women raped in front of men and men killed in front of women. Then, a hundred kilometers from us, from our coasts, the silence of Europe, the Europe that was not there. This is the semester in which we are leading Europe. I would like to interrupt my holidays in order to go and bring, not the voice of the Italian Government, but the presence of the European institutions, where a genocide of proportions was being carried out if possible even more extensive from the point of view of numbers, not of quality, since it is certainly not possible to classify the pain of genocide. But how can one fail to realize that foreign policy is now absolutely crucial and decisive at a time when girls in Mossul are locked up and put in the availability of fighters simply because of another religion? [[Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] When Italian collaborators show you the images of children shot as prisoners in front of a wall - already killing a child is something that makes no sense - how can we fail to understand that, when we love politics and think that politics is a serious thing, we cannot make it barbaric and shameful in everyday polemic? [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCP Groups and Senator Buemi]] How can we fail to understand that that policy requires a foreign policy worthy of this name? How can we fail to understand that, when Europe chooses to have a foreign policy, it is a great cultural challenge, because there is within it the value of women, the dignity of respect for religions, the ability to have in its heart a value of civilization to offer? I believe that this is the role of Italy. At the end of the thousand days I would like Italy to return to this role in foreign policy. And if anyone can think that Federica Mogherini's choice is dictated by internal needs, because he has chosen to focus on foreign policy for a superficial and banal assessment, I respect this assessment; but I would like anyone who expresses a judgment on this to be aware of the enormous challenge that we have given ourselves and also the risk of failure that this challenge contains. At the end of the thousand days, I would like foreign policy not to be treated as a series B argument: when one of us goes to the heart of Africa, for example in Mozambique, as Carlo Calenda did, to make sure that the two contenders in the election campaign were made, as well as to manage export; when one of us goes to Angola or Congo or chooses Africa to go and retrieve a girl, Meriam, held in prison and forced to give birth there simply by virtue of her Christian faith; in short, when someone does these things, he is not doing them for an act of respect for the Government, but because he thinks that Italy in the world means civilization and beauty. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCP Groups.]] We do not come to this vocation and will never fail. At the end of the thousand days, I would like us to have a clear path of reform on the economic world that holds everything together, not just something. Authors - and I respect them, because I am a faithful reader of some of them - said that the order of priorities was wrong. It was wrong to make a decree-law at work and then a bill delegates, because everything had to be done together: it may be. Someone said it was wrong to make a decree-law on public administration and then a bill: it may be. I respect these opinions, but I would like to tell you that there is a strategy: perhaps I am not reassuring you, but terrifying in saying that, but there is a strategy in this. [[Senator Marton's comments.]] The thesis that animates us is that of those who say that either the reforms are all done together or nothing will be done. It is an element of assessment that has its own margin of danger, I realize it and I do not want to take the risk at all; moreover, a great pilot said that when everything is under control it means that you are going too slowly. I think that the element of strength we are offering to the attention of the political debate is not the fact that the Government has arrived of those who want to change everything, but I think that we must change everyone, at least a little; and changing all means that we cannot insert an element of novelty if we do not have the strength to change the tax, the public administration, the system of the world of work and that of justice. I will spend a few words on each of these topics, because I have been too long in the first part, and then I will try to close on the subjects of the school. The IRS: in the frame of the puzzle - what someone defines as "announcements" and which has produced, for the moment, the largest reduction of taxes ever made by a government in republican history - we chose to give 10 million Italians - to 11, for the truth - the equivalent of 80 euros (and I say the equivalent because, in the range from 10 to 11 million, the margin is slightly narrower, as there is a sort of progressive reduction of 80 euros between the 10th and 11th million). However, it is an intervention that has its own strength and whose effects are very questionable and debated: someone says that it is an operation that is of no use; someone else says that it does not relaunch consumption; someone else still says that it was a mistake and that it was necessary to intervene on other types of taxation. These are positions that we all have a duty to respect and I admire those who have the truth in their pockets, even among you: I belong to the category of those who experience ideas, they are convinced of it, they open up to discussion and then go forward in that direction, because they think that the coherence between the announcement and the commitment is what characterizes a politician (it is probably my training as an administrator to tell me this). Well, the 80 euros are a reality, while they were considered an unworkable and indefatigable announcement: first there were no covers, then there were, but there would have been no extension; then they would have only arrived at the end of the election, but, after the elections, at the end of the year; then it was said there would not be for 2015. Now it seems to me that the judgment is shared: the 80 euros are there. What, though, is 80 euros for those who earn less than 1,500 euros per month? Are they an economic stimulus to consumption? Undeniable, but that is not the starting point. First of all, they are the symbol of a phenomenon of social justice. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Unemployed! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. A social justice for which I am absolutely convinced that it is fundamental to insist because in recent years a part of the population has paid the cost of the crisis much more than the rest; it is the part of the population that we call the middle class that, from 2000 to 2015, has seen the erosion of the personal purchasing power and the space of maneuvering, has seen the increase of the rates, in some cases up to 50%, and, at the same time, has not seen the increase of the wages. The 80 euros are then first and foremost a recognition of social justice, but they are also an indication of an economic model. I read authoritative commentators who explain to us that we should do like Spain. I respect Spain, the Spaniards, their extraordinary passion and their extraordinary culture, but I think I say here, in front of Parliament, in front of the Senate of the Republic, that those who propose for Italy a Spanish model, in my opinion - let me say it with the expression of a great American writer - slap the air. To a country like ours, which is suffering the record unemployment of 12.6 percent - which doubled in ten years' time, because until a few years ago it was 7 percent - and which is living on its own skin the scars of unemployment, how do we propose as a model a country that has a 25% unemployment? [[Applause from Senator Buemi's PD and PIE groups.]] How do you propose as a model a country that plays on the reduction of wages, imagining to transform the economy, reducing the weight of traditional manufacturing and perhaps doing those products without? I believe that Italy must continue to invest in its own manufacture. I believe that Italy can make products that nobody does; high quality products, which can affect the globalisation market that grows and reaches 800 million new consumers, without lowering wages (I remember that lowering labour costs is another matter) and without reducing the worker to constantly pursue an economic model of development for which there will always be someone who does without what everyone does. In this sense, the tax bet we have created is that of the 10% reduction in IRAP which - my business friends say - is a first step, but it is still insufficient: absolutely true, at a time of tax pressure, like what we have, how do we deny that 10% is only the beginning? However, it is a beginning that is in contrast to the past. This is the first time that IRAP has been reduced and this is the first time that the tax wedge has been knocked down not already for the individual entrepreneur, but for the worker; I remember that it had already happened in another way with the Government led by Romano Prodi. At the end of the thousand days we will have not only a tax that costs less, but also a tax - you will allow me - simpler. In these years the complication that has arisen from the tax system needs a simplification of which all of you, gentlemen of the Senate, are well aware, having approved a law delegation of reform of the tax system and simplification of the same, to which the Government has undertaken to follow with the decrees delegated that we will bring to the attention of the Commissions - as we have already begun to do and will do in the coming months - arriving to the tax return precompiled, to the simplification of the tax and, more generally, to a system in which it is clearer what is paid and the forms with which it is done. Is that enough? No, there is another element and I say it here, to the Senate, because, in fact, I forgot in the House (it is good to say that the mechanism of double speech is unfortunately not always simple; however the next time I report on the European Council, I will do it first to the Senate, so you will forgive me, but I do not have to lie to you here). I did not speak to the House this morning about something that I find very important and that the Senate and the House will discuss starting from the law of stability: spending review is not simply a cut in spending; it is first and foremost a revision of it. When we commit ourselves to rethinking EUR 20 billion on a total budget of more than EUR 800 billion, we are hitting a percentage that barely reaches 3% of the total budget value and will not necessarily lead to total expenditure reduction. It may happen that some voices are allocated differently. If we decide to invest in aerospace, because we believe that it is an important sector, education or a further 10% reduction in IRAP or the possibility of intervening differently on social shock absorbers - which we must do - it is clear that part of the expenditure review is not only cut by the same but is reallocated. Therefore, the revision of expenditure, which we will present with the 2015 Stability Act, will be of fundamental importance. We believe it is essential that this process is linked to the process of reviewing the world of work, labour law and the labour market. There are two principles, which I believe are fundamental, to be affirmed and defended. The first is that those who imagine creating jobs simply through reforms, whether structural or simply linked to the world of work, do not see reality. It is not simply a rule that creates jobs: this has never been the case, this will never be the case. We need an industrial policy. It is useless to change the rules of the labour market game if the Italian steel ridge, from Taranto to Genoa, passing through Terni and Piombino, fails. It is useless to talk about labour market reform if the context of the business, of the index of comfort for those who want to invest is made complicated by local government or a civil justice system whose times are triple compared to other countries. It is also true - and I say this to one part of the left - that it is not sustainable for those who say that defending the current system of labour law is the most left-wing thing there is and for a very simple reason. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCpI Groups]] The very simple reason is one: this system of labour law is, in my opinion, the more unjust and unfair there is today in Italy. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCP Groups.]] Also for a very simple reason, let me say it without going to play a derby among us. What does the world of work mean today? Today, if you're 30 years old and you're a mom, if you're an employee, you have the right to motherhood, if you're a VAT number, you have no rights. If, on the other hand, you are a young man or a 50-year-old person who loses his job, if you work in a company that can reach one of the various integration funds, you have protection, if you simply work in a shop or in a small business you are cut off from everything. Faced with the same situation and the same company, perhaps with the protections referred to in Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, if you find a court that follows a certain line, you have more chance of reintegrating, if you find a court that has a different line you have no room. In two provinces of my region I observed that the ratio of cases of reinstatement was 33 percent in one and 85 percent in the other. It is therefore clear that the labour law system needs to be radically changed. But this must be done in a dimension in which centrality cannot be attributed to ideological derby, but to a very simple mechanism: to change the system of social shock absorbers, making them simpler, fairer and more universal; to simplify the rules, which today amount to more than 2000 norms and which can become less than 100 in a very simple and clear way; to be in the condition of guaranteeing uniform and identical forms of protection and, at the same time, to do so in a very short time. We respect the current debate and believe that it can have the outlets that Parliament will decide, the most natural. But we also know that we have a commitment: in 2015 we must start with the new structure of social shock absorbers (for which, with Minister Padoan, we have recovered resources), and at the same time we must give a message, not already to Europe, not already to subjects outside of us, but first of all to ourselves, saying that no ideological discussion can stop what today is a priority, because if we are 12.6 percent of unemployment and more than 42 percent of youth unemployment, we cannot give answers that are not concrete and pragmatic. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). And what are they? Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. It is clear that the ability of companies to invest is not exhausted in the simplicity of the labour market. Today Italian civil justice has a backlog of 5,200,000 files. We started with the telematic civil process (and I do not think it scandalizes anyone if I say that, since 30 July, we will have the first data from tomorrow, because rightly there has been the working suspension, which just as rightly we will go to reduce, as it is natural and obvious that it is), but I believe that the reorganization of the civil justice system, for which a decree-law was presented to the attention of Parliament and some draft laws will follow, is the way in which we want to make peace to the Italians with the justice system, after twenty years in which, even for the responsibility of politics, a furious clash has occurred. I would like to say here, very clearly, that this also concerns, not the way in which the magistrates act, but the way in which public opinion responds to the legitimate and free actions of the magistrates. Let me explain: we who have also presented a draft law on the reform of civil liability are here today, in the front line, to say that we will fight in all fora and all fora, to defend the law, autonomy, freedom and independence of judges. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And we do it without even having to applaud, because this is inscribed in our DNA: I don't mean the DNA of a political party, it doesn't matter going back to Montesquieu to tell us that. With the same clarity, with the same tranquility and with the same force, let's say that when a magistrate opens an investigation, arrive at the preventive judgment by media, political or public opinion, immediately, on the basis of the registration in the register of suspects, it is an act of barbarity that we have always condemned in all fora. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCpI Groups]] We say that, with our political side, when it came to authorising the arrest of one of us, we voted in favour (not in this House, but in that of our colleagues in the House). We say so, with great determination and consistency. But we also say it aware that when a warranty notice arrives to the head of a company that is the twenty-second in the world and the first in Italy, that it employs tens of thousands of people, that it has tens of billions of turnover, that it is present all over the world... CANDIANI (LN-Aut). That he's your friend! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. ...the idea of giving the message that a scoop, videoocytophoneed to some newspaper editor, involves the end of that company is not worthy of a civil country and a great country of this world! [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCpI Groups]] This is what I demand as a strength, because I took the insults in this House and in the Chamber of Deputies when our Government said that it would defend the political position of an investigated person, because, kind senators, dear senators, the Constitution is not an optional one, which we carry only at a few moments! [[Ironic applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). It's about time! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. The Constitution, on which some of us have studied and which I see has led some of you - at last - to become passionate and even to grasp its fundamental points, says that you are innocent until you have passed judgment in court. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] TAVERNA (M5S). She also says that work is a right! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. From this point of view, we will be inflexible with ourselves, because we respect the investigations, but we wait for the sentences, which a certain culture would like to deny and cause to fail. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Comments of Senator Taverna]] At the end of a thousand days, of course, and I go very quickly to the conclusion... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). No, come on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet, colleagues. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. We leave him a couple of YouTube videos, so they practice. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u9	President Renzi, no one has the right to speak at this moment other than you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u10	Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Thank you, ma'am, very kind. I was saying that at the end of the thousand days there will be many new things that we want to put to the attention and that I think it would be very interesting to go deeper, chapter by chapter. I would like to discuss with you how digitisation will change public administration. In these years - I look at some local administrator who knows better than I do - we have limited ourselves to considering digitisation only as intervention on the existing. In reality, in the public administration, digitization should be the tool through which to anticipate the future, in which to build a cloud of services that exceeds the very concept of certificate and that allows you not to stay in a waiting room in the municipality to wait for your own number to have the identity card, perhaps sending furiously or going on social networks, but to use that same tool to have it directly at home without needing a complicated iter. I could go on, tell them how we want on the third sector... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group. Protests from the PD Group. Call the president back.]] I urge the Senators of the Democratic Party to remember that we also play a social role and therefore not to worry if there are any interruptions: we have this additional task for which we are well prepared to help! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Candiani]] Let us consider the importance of the third sector. Today we have 4,900,000 Italians serving, volunteering, offering assistance and building solidarity networks. This reality makes the third sector, in fact, the first in Italy and it should, in the debate on the law of stability, have a much greater attention and within and at the end of the thousand days a capacity to be much more central than what we have done to date. As well as it will be for the novelties that you will see from this law of stability in the cultural and tourism sectors, on which we also began to intervene also in the decree unblocks Italy, choosing to say a definitive word on many issues that were open for some time, even taking insults (I personally, I gladly take the insult). When we go to say that an infrastructural work, strategic in a framework of energy crisis like what we know (which seems to me quite obvious must arrive in Puglia because you have never seen a pipeline that starts from Azerbaijan and arrives in Liguria), a fundamental public work, with a dangerous diameter of 90 cm, must finally find an outlet, we run the risk of being insulted; but the unblocking Italy has been done exactly to solve this type of problem! [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's go get the gas at home! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. However, at the end of the thousand days all the reforms that we have paid attention to and which we have talked about so far will be useless, if there is not the largest of the reforms, which unfortunately cannot only concern those involved in the work. I am referring to the reform of the educational system rather than of the school, to the idea that in the everyday life of experience we do not leave to the unions or teachers the task of discussing the future of the school and not because we do not esteem them, but because we think that the future of the school or speaks of a society or does not speak of anyone. Talking about the future of school what does it mean? It certainly means spending two months in all schools: we will go home for home and school for school to present the 136 pages of the project "Good school" to listen with Minister Giannini to the answers to the questionnaire of children, teachers and families, to discuss with them a school system in which, as long as a teacher devotes time to educating a spirit to know a poetry, to learn music or to enjoy an hour of physical education, there will be no lost days. As long as there is a teacher who, despite the climate of contempt for the teaching staff, will continue to keep up the page of hope in our country's school and not just the page of anger; as long as there will be schools like the one we left yesterday, the school in the Brancaccio district dedicated to a giant of our time, Father Pino Puglisi [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI and SCpI Groups]] , a school that that priest had asked the Municipality of Palermo as a priority over the parish, because he knew it was the starting point for his community; as long as there will be such people in the schools, we will have a duty to work for the future of our country. Of course, even making commitments. The 149,000 teachers have a right to the State. The state has a commitment to those who are enrolled in the failing rankings, and we will take them within the school system, but changing the rules of the game and saying that the merit in the school is a value: it is a value for the children, that we must educate to do better. We must ensure that they try to do better first of all than themselves. But it is also a value for teachers, identifying formulas. When we - and I am referring in particular to my political side - fight a battle for autonomy, we must also know that, if we do not find the appropriate instruments, starting from a different use of the principals and from a different relationship of the school with the territory, we will not go anywhere. I see some of you who have been city councilmen and who, therefore, know this subject well. At the end of the thousand days there will therefore be an Italy that will be able to recover the time it has lost. At the end of the thousand days there will be an Italy that can do what in twenty years has not been done. Of course, those who, in these twenty years, have failed to carry out the reforms of which we are talking today, have all the titles to hope that we do not succeed, but the element that we carry in, as a fundamental element, is the unitary design that we have offered to your attention and on which we ask for your collaboration. It is a unitary design, which holds together a model of country in which we come back to think that for our children tomorrow can no longer be something that inspires terror, but it must be the place where physically we can build a different hope. I said: to withstand the impact of hope. I do not know what your affections, the people who are close to you and who you know in your college, tell you in daily life. I don't know what they say to you, but I read the letters that come to me. I read the invitations of the people who come to me: there is a huge question of politics; there is a gigantic question of women and men asking if, at last, we can do what we have been waiting for years to do. It's our turn. It will be our responsibility to have failed in the event of defeat. It will be Italy's victory, in case of success. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI and SCPI Groups. The Senators of the LN-Aut Group show some ice cream cones.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u11	I call on the senators of the North League to avoid these unspeakable demonstrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u12	VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Buffoons! Buffoons!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u13	I beg the Assistants and Senators to intervene. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] I ask the League's Parent Company to bring the order back to its Group, giving first of all a good example. (Parliamentary assistants comply with the President's invitation.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u14	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, fellow senators [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u15	I call on the senators to take their seats or leave the Chamber if they do not want to hear Mr Susta's speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u16	Sunta (SPI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you because at such a delicate stage in Italian, European and international political life, you have given Parliament the opportunity to launch a four-month period which will rightly require the Chambers to make a supplementary effort in relation to what has already been done in recent months, in order to tackle - I would say almost assault - the outstanding or not completely resolved issues that hinder the recovery of our economy, thus enabling Italy to fully exercise the presidency of the European Union and to face as a protagonist - since we are also leading European foreign policy - the many crises that are going through the world. More than on the verge of a world war this is a world (especially in the Middle East and Africa) in search of new balances: it has to deal with interests, identities, protagonists stifled by the fragile balance achieved by the great Western powers in the aftermath of the First and Second World Wars, never completely accepted by the deep belly of the Arab world and imposed on an Africa that still suffers from colonialism. A new balance that no longer sees in the USA, despite the resistance of the last days, the gendarme of the planet, and in which Russia does not renounce the logic that for fifty years has guided the other half of the sky, heavily conditioning the future of Europe and the relations between it and those countries (Ukraine, the Caucasian Republics) that have had new contacts with the European institutions to sign new agreements. Our thousand days, our hopes for growth, our European and international protagonism are unfolding in this scenario, and they call on Government and Parliament to assume unprecedented responsibilities. Civic choice, Mr. President Renzi, wants to indulge his determination and courage in wanting to sink the scalpel into the sick body of our country; we want to indulge his haste, because a thousand days are few if we just think of delays, omissions, waste and missed opportunities and accumulated in these twenty years. Two out of all: the advantages deriving from the introduction of the euro on the cost of public debt and the higher revenues, daughters of the greatest sacrifices, in terms of taxes and taxes, asked of the Italians. All this must be remedied, and we ask that within the thousand days indicated there be a reasonable, effective and fast term, in order to face the structural reforms that the country needs. It gives absolute priority to these reforms: to approve them, especially those on the labour market, on justice, on the reduction of public spending, on school, would be a strong and precise signal that, beyond the announcements (which must now belong to the initial political-programmatic phase of this experience of Government, that we must leave behind us), make it clear that it has changed in concrete course compared to the too many political bonds, union, corporate, that hold back the growth of the country and that they push it towards a resigned and stagnant drift, according to logic of caste privilege that do not belong only to politics. Priority and urgency must be given to the economy, development and competitiveness of the Italian system in Europe and in the world. We greatly appreciated the confirmation, which we heard in his speech, of the Government's commitment to finally give Italy a new labour code, and with it a new right that is really the right of all workers and not only, as today, half of them. The overcoming of the current regime of true apartheid in the world of Italian work, combined with the drastic simplification of legislation that is one of the most complicated and at the same time one of the least effective in Europe, has always been among the priority objectives of Civic Choice, which has taken responsibility to show with its own draft laws how concretely these objectives can be achieved in a short time. One single recommendation is to allow us to address them in this regard, Mr President: do not let the paddles nestled in ministerial structures translate these objectives into the political or bureaucratic one that only serves to cover up the intentions of reform. (Senator Biinella approaches the benches of the government and gives the President of the Council a fake ice cream cone). We remain convinced that only by releasing the energy and potential of our productive system, especially the private one, will we be able to revive employment and, with it, income and consumption. It is okay to duel with those in Brussels who believe that the policy of rigour is a mystic to venerate in itself; but rigour in the public accounts, containment and return from public debt and incentives to demand or are held together, or a country like Italy, at the first breeze of a new and aggressive financial speculation, risks being brought to its knees. The gap between us and the rest of Europe is the child of our evils, of the structural reforms that have not been made. This is where we must attack the constraints that today prevent us from growing. We know well that an innovative country needs institutions adapted to change and capable of responding promptly to the challenges that this world and this time bring to us. That is why we want to support institutional reforms and electoral reform. But the priority goes to the reforms at this time, because, for example, the good school proposed by Minister Giannini and by you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, really serves to make the country grow and finally young people return to being at the centre of the idea of the future, of a school that makes it its capacity to combine merit and need. These are the most immediate battles, the ones from which you will understand if there is really the will to change the country and if this Parliament is able to support it. We also know that delegated laws and all structural reforms require a tenacious and patient commitment to implementation and that on this path they will encounter resistance and opposition, inside and outside Parliament, inside and outside politics; therefore the cohesion of the majority will have to be manifested with even greater attention and determination in these fateful thousand days. Of course, the reality of governing is more difficult and more complicated than eternal electoral campaigns, whether public or housewives, and all, the government first and foremost, we must know that the time of credit openings is over. I come to say that it is also good to create oppositions that make us descend from the virtual to the real. But, all in all, this is good, because reality must be faced with chest and face open. This government was born to mark a turning point. We have not forgotten the passage, full of tensions for PD and beyond, from the Led Government to this Government. But it is precisely by going with the mind to that difficult passage that we find the reason for what we must, as a government and as a majority, do together today. That change of pace, that awareness of the urgency of having to act were and are the foundational reason of this majority, which accepted (not without effort in many of its components) that turning point so that it could express all its potentialities. We are aware that an entire ruling class, for the vast majority who are not responsible for the mistakes of the last 20 years, starting with you, Mr President, wants to support the change you are proposing, and we at Civic Choice, who are the frontier of reforms without, without, but without, we will be sincerely and surely at your side. [[Applause from the SCPI and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u18	Mr President Grasso, Mr Renzi, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my fellow senators, it is certainly not easy to pursue the country's growth and efficiency objectives if economic forecasts are always revised downwards, yet, Mr Renzi, I am convinced that everyone's commitment to work in this House, also because of the different positions of majority or opposition, so that the country can start to grow again and that the data at the end of the day are better than the data at the budget. The Government has a very difficult task, certainly, in the face of an economic crisis that seems never to end; But the government must not be alone, because there is the broadest willingness on the part of the whole Parliament not only to share the choices, but also to be able to make the right suggestions. We are convinced, however, that the crisis is still a possibility, not just a temporary event, no matter how long, from which to escape. We believe that we can achieve a new spring through GDP growth and the reduction of unemployment and poverty; through increased competitiveness, the attraction of foreign investment; through the organic and global development of the tourism industry; through an efficient labour market and a streamlined and transparent public administration; through efficient use of European funds; through short processes and legal certainty. You have presented a tight programme, undoubtedly full-bodied and broad-ranging, which has defined a thousand days of reforms. A thousand days that are not a time limit, but the beginning of a new birth: we could say of an Italian economic spring, but also of a regeneration of social and political relationships, where the dimension of collaboration, of constructive dialectics, of a policy that is therefore inclusive and not exclusive, can represent the figure and the real work on which to build, not alone and each of us, but together. Our Group can therefore only support this ambitious programme, a programme which aims to bring Italy back to its role in Europe and in the world. If we succeed in implementing the programme that you have presented for Italy - and you will certainly be able to trust in all our support - we will finally be able to develop that potential that already has in itself. As you, Mr President, pointed out both in the House this morning and in the Senate this afternoon, we are convinced that Italy should not deny its specific characteristics, but rather start from them, starting from its not being a "normal" country, rather - as has been repeatedly pointed out and shared by us - a "special" country. I would therefore like to highlight two aspects, the first of which I will try to deal with very quickly. First of all, Mr President, the time has come for each of us, as we have at other times, to follow the words and I believe that the facts are already there: the first tangible signs we experienced in this House a few days ago, on 8 August last. The change in Italy cannot only be played - this is something that is particularly clear to us - in Parliament's classrooms; it must start from them in order to extend to the whole economic and social structure. Thank you - as I have already said - for highlighting the Senate's work on constitutional reform. In the Senate we were able to give up our prerogatives. It is the beginning, but it is not enough, nor does it satisfy us so much, because the road is still long and we must pursue it with enthusiasm, decision and will: enthusiasm decision and will that belong only, as human characteristics, to those who believe deeply in an idea. We therefore need the commitment of all Italians, each in his/her own competence, each in his/her own institution. An example for everyone: we have approved, with Law No 125 of 30 October 2013, the Agency for Territorial Cohesion. The aim of the Agency is to be the driving force behind a broader strategy that sees all administrations engaged in a common effort to make the best use of the European Structural Funds and thus make a significant contribution to the economic and social recovery of the whole country. Unfortunately, the Agency is not yet operational, but the first signs tell us that it will soon be able to develop it. The second subject, Mr President, is particularly dear to me and to all of us: we must have the courage - which you have already shown in recent months in addressing this House and other fora too - to speak explicitly of poverty and fragility. The fight against poverty and inequality must be the guiding thread of all public policies, of all the reforms we are talking about today. The goal of growth must therefore be accompanied by poverty reduction, because poverty and fragility are closely linked to the absence of employment and reducing poverty also means making the labour market more efficient. The social exclusion, unfortunately still so widely represented, generated by the absence of employment, prevents the growth of domestic demand. The most worrying fact is that of social inclusion. According to a European study, Italy is in 24th place (out of 28): worse than us are only Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania and Greece. That is why I would like to stress the importance of labour market reform in the work delegation (or jobs act). We consider this measure to be of absolute importance. In addition to the revival of the economy, we must take work as a means of growth, as a means of getting out of poverty and social exclusion, as a driving force for development. To this end, a system could be imagined based on funding from the European Social Fund, bringing together policies of reintegration into work with guidance, training and accompanying work accompanied by temporary occupations in which to involve the third sector with an important role. We therefore think of targeted income support measures linked to socially relevant programmes in a productive way. In the time available to us, we cannot make any further comments because of the intervention that you have brought to our attention. However, if I am given the opportunity, I would like to make a final or rather penultimate reflection (to reserve a further margin for intervention) in relation to foreign policy. You have rightly spoken of Italy's role in foreign policy. I believe that on this occasion it is right on our part, not for institutional reasons, but for a deep feeling, to renew the wish to Minister Mogherini for his commitment at European level, which will therefore be further wide-ranging. I believe that this role must be played without shyness and boldness. We must make our voice heard in the theatres of crisis, not only because they concern us, but because of what Italy represents, as you said. We need long-term initiatives, a long thought (not a short thought, as someone else might say) that patiently weeds the torn fabric of the Middle East, for example. There is an investment to be made that goes beyond us: we need a drawing. It's not enough to react shot-to-shot. In short, it is not enough to think of our little peace; we need the boldness to lay the foundations for a great peace in the Mediterranean and Eastern Europe. I would like to conclude my speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, on one last point (I have reserved the opportunity to give a final thought). I believe that all our commitment and all that of the Government and of every Member and citizen must be essentially aimed at giving an answer to two realities that challenge us and question us: the thousands of deaths that have found their last destination in the Mediterranean Sea and the many young people who desperately try to find a place in the world of work and who, in the greatest difficulty, are forced to emigrate. I believe that these realities need a firm and firm response, which can only be attributed to the high institutional responsibility of a President of the Council of Ministers and Members of Parliament. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you feel that you are not alone in this tough battle. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups and from the government benches]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u19	Senator Ferrara Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u20	Mr. President, the hundred days were... (The President of the Council spoke with Senator Romani Paolo.) The time is at my disposal, Mr President, and I can also use it in stages of silence, but let me give myself the prerogative and also the presumption of addressing the President of the Council. The conferences are done this way, as President Renzi taught us also at the "Leopolda": you go, you say what you have to say and you hear the others; there will be many interventions out of place and then someone gives an idea. It is the law of democracy and, therefore, with a little patience let us all listen to each other. The hundred days - I said - had been invented for Napoleon and this is already a somewhat presumptuous comparison. Today, the President makes a thousand these hundred days. But as at the time it was not to say three months, because in a sense it was too plebeous for an emperor, today it is like not saying three years, which is the normality of the remaining legislature. In short, President Renzi with this invention is from Encyclopedia Treccani, whose novella will quote him as one of the greatest communicators in the history of the world and therefore, no doubt, of Italy. But in this way, with the ability to communicate alone, it looks like a whole movie, as a colleague has just said. On the other hand, our president Renzi is a bit cinephile: already at four o'clock in the morning, when the movie "La grande bellezza" won the Oscar, he made a tweet writing that he was happy about it. Jep, the interpreter of "La grande bellezza" (The Great Beauty), said that at the age of sixty-five he was convinced that, after a certain age, it was not worth wasting time doing things that you don't want to do. President Renzi is very young. I'm from 1954, so I turned 60. At my age I think like Jep: I don't want to make any more speeches that I don't want to do and, therefore, I don't want to make any more speeches that are, in my part of the opponent, too much warlike or too harsh. And again: I don't want to go across the barricade and make too flattering or too cautious speeches. Today I want to say the things I think and please listen to me to the end, because the things I think are in contradiction as well as the essence of our Group. The LAG Group - the President will recall - is mixed and in it there are senators who vote for trust and others who do not vote for it. And with the permission of my fellow Senators in the Group, who have generously granted it to me, I tell you what I think. I think that we Members of Parliament and Italy are in a very strange situation: after about 20 years of being on a road in which we governed, good or bad, a citizen chosen by the people, we now have you, who was not chosen by the people, but was voted by us and became President of the Council at 39 years of age. I already told President Napolitano - you know very well - and it has never been said in this House: the only one who succeeded before was Benito, but he had been first Member and also a soldier at the front and had waged war. You, Mr President, were mayor and, as uniform, you only wore scouts. Yeah, he was mayor of Florence, and he's proud of it. But how can we not say then that, if this is the only merit, even the mayors of Messina, Catania, Bari or Verona have, precisely for this reason, the title of the President of the Council. "Stay calm," she said to Letta and immediately after the patatrac. Be patient: I'm not totally mad at you, and at the last I'll say good things. But at this moment, Mr President, I would not buy a car used by you - for goodness sake - not because you lack honesty, but because I would have the doubt that you know its size. But there is a problem in Italy: the problem is that to sell cars, President Renzi, at this moment it is only you and, therefore, either we buy it from you or we walk. Then let's see this car together. Let us see these reforms. Let's see, President, the measures you want to take to improve the country. We, President, are first of all Italians. We want to be servants of the State and we hope, as and better than you, for the good of the country. But for the sake of charity, just for the sake of the Fatherland, we need more professionalism. We cannot attend decree-laws published after 15 days: either those decrees were not urgent or were written too badly and, in both cases, this is disturbing. We cannot see a pop-up of promised interventions that seem to be more confusing than clear in the public administration. We can't hear about basic school arrangements. At the same time - we thank you for the lesson of constitutional law - when we talk about constitutional reforms, we say that we do not need anyone, and whoever talks about it and wants to give us advice is just a wig. We cannot read indiscretions about measures of the economy that are racked up and contradictory, in which we seek too miraculously to combine rigour and assistance. Yesterday you went to Mondello, near my house, to say how miracles are done in 48 hours: those measures yes, they would be miracles! We cannot hear statements that are contrary to the logic of conciliation and then read sophisticated and sophisticated amendments that recreate conciliation. At the same time, however, President Renzi, we can only be absolutely dismayed by his conviction and his determination: she is extremely determined and convinced and for this reason has a remarkable success. We can only be dismayed by his energy and can only be disarmed by his, though gross, transparent honesty. So let's go ahead, without forgetting to remind you of the diversity of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, as usual in its completely oblivioned interventions, since it has also allowed to reduce the state participation to European spending, thus limiting the opportunities of infrastructural equalization: mah, mah and mah again! In conclusion, President, if between political convenience and electoral shortcut you have chosen the country, we, although vigilant and critical, want to be with you, because being with you means being with Italy. But do not abuse and, saying that you are not being blackmailed, do not blackmail Parliament in turn. I do not accept blackmail - my story is long enough, the first time I was elected to Corleone, the second in Brancaccio, where you were yesterday, and of blackmail not suffered I have great experience - and they do not accept blackmail even the Senators of the Group Grandi Autonomie e Libertà. In any case, with all my heart, I wish you good work, President. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zeller. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u22	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats shares its policy guidelines and the prospect of the natural expiry of the legislature as a horizon for government action. It is a realistic perspective for us for the timing, as well as consistent with the Government's reformist intention in constitutional, institutional and economic matters. The Senate, as you acknowledged, has been able to assume a constitutional reform in the first place that will lead to the overcoming of equal bicameralism. Although, in our view, a somewhat less centralistic view of the reform of Title V would have been desirable, the Senate's yes to constitutional reform is undoubtedly an important political step. At the same time, as the Group for the Autonomies, we have always set economic reforms as a priority. There is a strong demand for reforms and flexibility, without which there will be no growth whose lack afflicts our country in the first place, strongly conditioned by the recession. The reform process on which your Government has committed itself in Europe is the only possible and credible choice for Italy to request and propose a turning point in Europe. We are aware that, in the absence of growth, it is not possible to meet the objectives of public finance and the reduction of public debt. The failure of austerity policy, only austerity, is before everyone's eyes. This policy has helped bring the eurozone, and in particular Italy, into a situation of unprecedented deflation. We also share your assessment that Italy has interrupted the fall, but that this is not enough. We need to grow, because the decline has serious social and economic consequences and without growth it will not even be possible to implement its ambitious programme or even less the reduction of the huge debt. With the policy of cuts alone it is possible to respect - in the short term, perhaps - the ceiling of 3%, but for a long time the country's economy is damaged. As an Autonomy Group we have indicated labour market reform as the country's real priority: the delegation to the Government must therefore be broad, because only in this way will it be possible to put hand to the Workers' Statute, in order to update it with respect to the new requirements. The model for us is the reforms of Chancellor Schröder of 2003, who have made the great sick man of Europe such as Germany ten years ago, a country that enjoys prosperity. Schröder has introduced courageous reforms of the labour market, even at the cost of unpopularity, which you too, Mr President, will risk by doing this reform. All this, however, has enabled Germany to reduce unemployment and to become a model again for how it dealt with the scourge of youth unemployment. In addition to reforms of public administration, tax, labour market and justice, we must also aim at simplifying the lives of citizens and businesses. From this point of view, it is important, in our view, not to allow - as has been the case so far - Community directives to be taken up by ministerial bureaucracies as a pretext for always introducing new vexatory procedures, obligations and obligations (e.g. the absurd procedure for SISTRI or the excessively bureaucratic rules on occupational safety). Only then will Italy be able to become competitive again. Our consent to his programmatic indications for the thousand days renews a political pact on the part of our Group, which has always loyally supported its Government. The political pact presupposes that, on the part of the Government, there is a sharing of the need to strengthen the specialty of the autonomous regions of the Alps. In recent months we have worked well with your Government, with the undersecretaries Delrio and Bressa, with Minister Padoan and also in the Joint Committees, so that now there would be the conditions to give concrete implementation to our agreements. I am referring to the new financial system for Trento and Bolzano, to the agreement on the Stelvio Park and to the delegation relating to the administrative staff of justice, but also to the implementing rules on urban planning and retail trade, which we hope will be launched as soon as possible by your Government, and by the end of this year. The closure of the financial agreement and the agreement with the State for regional rail transport, as well as the unblocking of the implementing rules already approved by the Joint Commission, are also crucial for Valle D'Aosta. Finally, there must be a commitment in Europe by your Government and, in particular, by you personally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to the extension of the Brenner Motorway, which will finally free up resources for the financing of the Brenner Tunnel and its access routes, as well as a substantial increase in European co-financing. The realization of this strategic work is strongly supported by the populations interested in the territory (we do not do as in Val di Susa, where they contest that work, but we strongly support it, as you have seen during your visit to the yard). I conclude with a reflection: there is a strong demand for regionalism and autonomy in Europe, which cannot be underestimated, as shown by the referendums in Scotland and also in Catalonia. The outcome of these referendums may also have very strong repercussions here in Italy: for example, in our territory there are increasing pressures for separation from Italy, also fueled by the feeling of being in a state that does not offer the answers expected by the real economy, in particular for the border areas, which are more exposed to competition from other Community countries and also from Switzerland. The answer from the Government can only be the strengthening of autonomy and certainly not more centralism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are confident that your Government will soon give the answers, and on this basis, as an Autonomous-PSI Group, we reaffirm our strong support for your Government's action. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we first brought you a candy, a cone that recalls a well-known photograph that circulated a few days ago. In reality, however, there is nothing to smile about in this House. We brought it to her to remind her of one thing; it takes a healthy bath of humility. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have come to this House today - and we are wondering why - for information, and you have simply made for once again a series of announcements, of proclamations of a book of dreams of what will have to be realized, but without any substantial content. We in these classrooms, even today, expected to see concrete things, real acts, true reforms, to face the nodes that the country has, the real problems that citizens and businesses feel. I remind you, families can't take it anymore. We know these realities well and we know just as well the realities of companies that close and are forced to fire. We know the realities of the workers who have lost their jobs and who may be 50 years old and who are unable to take up their jobs. We know the realities of exodus who do not know how to live and must draw on the savings of a life. You forget about these categories instead. In this House we continue to hear nothing but talk and no real content. Yet the disappointing results of the second quarter are clear and certified; there are serious and serious doubts about the sustainability of the recovery throughout the euro area. This worries us and, above all, as emerged from yesterday's news, the OECD certifies that Italy is unfortunately the only country in the industrial area of the G7 to mark a step backwards, a terrible negative step equal to -0.4%. This means that unfortunately the Italian economy will remain at the stake throughout 2014 because the suffering of Italy has become more pronounced. What does all this mean, colleagues? We are now close to an economic and social collapse. All indicators mark a negative step. I would like to remind you of some of them; peak industrial production, rising unemployment, the third consecutive year of recession, the six million poor, a maximum public debt and a real deficit that is well over 3%. The companies you were talking about are suffocating for an increasingly exotic tax system and a bureaucracy that is increasingly inefficient. On the front of the fight against excessive bureaucracy in this country we have seen nothing in these years and nothing in these months when you are in the government. The leverage is blocked, there are mountains of loans in distress, and what do you always talk about with roboating announcements and proclamations? He tells us about the 80 euros in paycheck, which - I remind you - have not been used to increase consumption because they are largely compensated by all those extra taxes that citizens have to pay. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] On the debt front and on this front of Italy's suffering, which the OECD certifies to have become more pronounced, I remind you that in order to support those 80 euros and to cover them financially in some way, you went to Europe to demand that the public debt be increased by more than 40 billion euros. These chasms in the public accounts will be found next year, ladies and gentlemen, and who will pay? How are you going to make up for it? I would remind you, Mr President of the Council of Ministers, that the action taken by your ministers is not going to give the answers that this country expects; the main issue is work, employment. Since you took office - and, it is always worth remembering, not through a legitimate passage of participatory democracy, not through the election of citizens, but with a choice made by the secretariat of your party that defenestrated the previous Premier - in front of what we have seen being put on the field so far, we have seen nothing about the fight against unemployment. We have seen nothing about aid for economic recovery, aid for businesses, tax cuts and the tax wedge. The only way to free resources - and we of the North League always say so - is to drastically attack unproductive public spending, those pockets of waste and inefficiencies, present in many sectors, that would serve to free resources to be distributed immediately to businesses, to families: money in the pocket to people that so could really stimulate consumption and promote domestic demand. In this House you said that the main elements of your five-point government action are constitutional reform and reform of the electoral law. But look at the fact that citizens don't eat with the reform of the electoral law! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Businesses do not survive the reform of the electoral law or constitutional reform: an incredible pateracchio that will certainly create enormous damage to this country and will solve nothing on the expense side. And I remind you that only one first step was taken and we need four. I'll just tell you one thing. What you have put on the field are robotic chatter on the one hand, irreconcilable actions on the other, and hidden truths on the other side still. And the fact that we are most alarmed is that of public debt and the increase in public expenditure. What you're keeping, the truth that you're hiding from the Italians, is that there has been an increase, a tightening of taxes, of the tax burden. How? To the detriment of the local authorities and municipalities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The coverage of the 80 euros is found by TASI, which will be much heavier than the IMU and which you have completely poured into the responsibility of the poor mayors, who have to be collectors on behalf of a centralist and centralist state that costs, wastes and does not give the services they serve to the people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The municipalities are in disarray because with that money, in the form of local taxes, that citizens have to pay extra must compensate for the continuous cuts and transfers of the state for which they are unable to render the services. We have here a delegation of representatives of the small municipalities (which in these days will put in place an active garrison), who simply asks for a meeting, the possibility of sitting at a table to really understand the difficulties and the reality of those who live daily direct contact with citizens on the front of the rendering of local services. At least listen to them! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Do not reduce reforms from above, but listen to those who work on the territory constantly trying to run this country. I would also like to point out to you that where we have a sector that drives, that of export, with an economic and foreign policy absolutely reckless and unwise, you are doing very serious damage to our economy. I am talking about the absurd sanctions to Russia, which will cost as much as 1.8 billion euros to our export, in particular to that of the Veneto Region. I repeat, the only sector in recovery that is acting as a tow truck. In these days agricultural products that are no longer exportable are rotting in stores, entrepreneurs fire employees, farmers do not know how to do and orders are withdrawn thanks to a short-sighted and self-harmful action of its Government, which instead of defending Made in Italy is ready to succumb to the wishes of Merkel, a Europe of bankers and bureaucrats who do the interests of great trading powers and do not defend our products. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I am talking about Veneto because we are absolutely tired - and all citizens are realizing it as well as the productive categories and entrepreneurs - of being mocked. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Companione.]] We can no longer go on with this policy, a propaganda policy for electoral purposes. There must be a turning point, but we are seeing nothing about real reforms, about content - I repeat. I recall Veneto because the citizens of Veneto, Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna, the territories of the North that are driving the country, can no longer see the change of the state machine. If standard costs were finally to be applied, there would already be savings in expenditure on tax reductions. In these days and hours a great historic event is being celebrated in Scotland, a historic turning point, which will give Scottish citizens the opportunity to express themselves. In Veneto we ask for the same thing, namely the possibility that Venetian citizens can express themselves for independence and can still decide how they want to see their future. What have you done, Mr President-in-Office? He challenged the law approved by the Veneto Regional Council, which simply calls for the Venetians to speak. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is counter-trend with the push being made in Europe, where the air has already changed. I say to her that hers is a very serious mistake, a huge mistake, that she will pay and that she will make pay to the country, because it will only fuel the self-employed push and will create an ever greater meltdown among the citizens, who feel the State distant because instead of advancing in an evolved federalist form, it becomes increasingly centralist and centralist. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I shall end my speech on behalf of my Group by asking you just one thing. So far we have found nothing concrete, we are here and we try, where we can, to make our contribution, in every measure examined, in every Commission, to give a turning point to the country. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are telling you that you need fundamental reforms: you listen to advice from those who are really present on the ground. No more empty announcements and no more proclamations! Sorry to say, especially to a young man like me - indeed, she is even younger than me - but she has perfectly joined politics in the First Republic style: so much smoke, so much chatter and no concrete response. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u25	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is true that today we would have expected you to inform us of very different tone and substance, since in this sense you had also sent out signals in the newspapers and in the anticipations. We also thought that it would use this intervention in Parliament not to send out generic signals, but to make a very serious argument on European issues. On the other hand, the speech before which we have been hearing and which we have listened carefully, skimmed by rhetorical artifices, has been - alas - extremely poor in terms of substance, content and real projects over these thousand days. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have asked us, and above all you ask the country, for an act of faith. He repeated the words "at the end of the thousand days" continuously, but what is missing, in our opinion, is the explanation of how he hopes to achieve the objectives he indicated. It tells us: Trust us, because we started well and even if we are still far from the goal, things are already much better than before. We do not agree with this, because unfortunately - and I am sorry to say so - that is not the case. Today's OECD forecasts, which you have somewhat dodged, say that this year Italian GDP will be reduced by 0.4 per cent, instead of the increase of 0.5 per cent that had been predicted. This is one point less than expected and worse results than 2013. You say that we have stopped the fall, but I do not know if this happens because of a miraculous event or because, with the proposals you have presented, you think it is possible to build a more rosy forecast. We are the only European country that does not grow, even if we pay the very hard and socially devastating prices that are also paid in other European countries. You are somehow right when you say that we must not adapt to the Spanish model. But three years of sacrifices imposed by three different governments, including yours, have led only to a very violent surge and that seems irrepressible of the debt and the data of unemployment, while the weight of the fiscal pressure, and its unfair distribution, on which you have dwelt and on which I will return, has not diminished, has increased and has become unbearable. Things are not getting any better, Mr President. Things are still going very badly, and perhaps it could not be otherwise. She loves to extend on the immense gap between her government and the previous ones: we would like it to be true. Instead, when we move from appearance to substance, we actually record a strict continuity with previous governments, and we wouldn't want them to eventually share their failure outcomes. The European dogmas to be followed, with their tragic obtuseness, remain the same: the absolute priority of rigour and strenuous defense of those parameters that Romano Prodi himself called stupid rules at the time, perseverance in the short-sightedness that led Europe to follow a strategy opposed to that of the American Fed. This is exactly what we would have expected from his speech on the thousand days: a clear signal to Europe to support the unbreakableness of a drastic change of pace, starting with the overcoming and eliminating of the fiscal compact of that other tragic nonsense of the budget balance in the Constitution. We would have expected a real signal to free ourselves from the dogma that still requires us to put the problem of debt first instead of the problem of employment and poverty. We would have expected you to have the courage to say clearly that in the current situation, which has delineated throughout the eurozone and in particular in Italy, the 3% constraint can no longer be imposed or respected. To Europe, beyond tone, Mr Renzi, you have actually sent the usual message: we will do our homework, we will pursue balance of budget at all costs, we will not exceed 3%. This is not a point that can be addressed by asking Europe to beg for a little more flexibility, which is also being denied to us. We must review the parameters from top to bottom, tackle the knot in the golden rule, exclude from the calculation of public investments the school, the environment, research, innovation, small and medium-sized works against hydrogeological failure, renewable energies. In other words, ambitious and forward-looking strategies must be put in place, as we tried to do when, for example, we measured ourselves with the dramatic problem of employment, which was the real priority on which to measure the first two hundred days of government and the next thousand days. We have tried to put forward the proposal for a Green Work Plan, which would achieve the dual objective of safeguarding the territory and focusing on energy security, reopening the door to demand for work. Yes, as you have indicated, we must focus on Italian specificity, beauty and quality, but we must do so with concrete measures, not with easy rhetorical wishes or, worse, with measures that go in the opposite direction. You came here to talk to us about the specificity of Italy and the importance of changing a development model by focusing on quality and, in the end, what came out? For example, the decree unlocks Italy. What help will the quality of our territory and our specificity bring to the favors made to the builders or to the usual known of the motorway concessions, the relaunch of the drillings, the choice of an energy policy that is again centered on the more traditional sources, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), the obstinacy on the great works instead of the small and medium ones, that would lead to results much more effective in the matter of support to the local economies and the revival of the occupation? It is well known that one hundred million invested in small and medium-sized projects have a three times greater return on employment than the same investments in large works. But you know this data, ma'am. That is why we do not understand how different choices can be made. His formulas are the same that we have heard for years and that they have failed for years. The elimination of workers' rights continues to be imagined as a panacea, and part of its majority is still not enough! They will have no peace until they have poured salt on the ruins of Article 18 and of the total Workers' Statute. You denounce the differentiations that exist between workers, but the way to smooth this difference cannot be to eliminate guarantees to level down. This apartheid, as you have called it, must be smoothed out, but restoring principles of equality upwards, and not downwards. It must be tackled by broadening and making universal the system of social shock absorbers, with the introduction of guaranteed income. It must be fought by reducing the area of the precarious: do you know that we still have 44 types of precarious contracts? The precarious has grown more in our country than in other countries. You rightly said (but we all know) that it is not by reforming the labour market rules that create jobs. If that is not a statement made just to say, the way was not to intervene on the rules of the labour market by changing - I repeat - a system of rights down, not upwards. Apartheid, the double labour market, is clearly what we want to continue on. It is a matter of justice, but it is also a pragmatic issue. But do you not understand that continuing to be fierce about public and private workers means shooting oneself on the feet, because it inevitably leads to depressing the demand? In our country, social injustice is more fierce than in almost all the rest of Europe. The area of poverty has doubled. We have the absolute primacy of Europe as to the number of young people who do not work or study. Any economist not blinded by ideology could explain to her that without rebalancing this situation, without a drastic policy of redistribution of income that allows the mass of the population to face some expense, from the crisis you will not be able to get out. These are the knots waiting for you, waiting for the whole country. You have preferred to lift and claim posthumous successes: the 80 euros, which did not have the impact that you clearly propaganda; the reforms that translate only into delegations on delegations (let's think about the measure on public administration); the reform of the school, which certainly contains the commitment to assume 149,000 precarious, but meanwhile blocks for another year the contracts of the teachers and replaces the steps of seniority with those of competence. And then the constitutional reforms, whose only effect, let me say, Mr President, in this House where we have fought so hard, are to undermine popular sovereignty and introduce a Senate of nominees (other than a reduction in the political class!), moving from a perfect bicameralism to a messy bicameralism. And on guaranteeing, we are happy that she too rediscovers herself as guarantor. We would have liked (but we hope so) that guaranteeing was not only for some powerful nominated by you in public companies, but also for the weakest and the poorest. We would very much like to wish you luck, President, not for the good of your government, but for that of the country. But on this route, the one you tracked, you won't have any luck, and it won't take a thousand days to find out. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u27	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have sincerely appreciated the lines of commitment to change Italy in the thousand days before us and which you set out on behalf of the coalition government that presides. Anomalous coalition, of course, but whose anomaly proves to be happy whenever it converges different cultures and policies on the many elements of discontinuity that serve the nation for a new season of human development. His specific references, with particular regard to work and justice, extraordinarily sensitive themes in the particular political history of post-war Italy, comfort us and encourage us to continue in the laborious choice we made in the higher interest of the nation. It is not difficult to imagine if those considerations would have been allowed by a coalition of the united left, necessarily united in the preservation of the many anomalies that it itself has historically helped to produce and that today, together, we want to remove. The New Right Centre, as you know, is born from the strong thinking of the principles of national tradition and the related belief that development is the consequence of the widespread action of people and not of the State, to which they compete essential functions minimally managed in terms of expenses, taxes and rules. This thought leads us today to reaffirm the following essential elements so that the change of public instruments is substantial and the preservation of the principles of always is guaranteed; not the opposite, as others would like. First. The labour market is, not by chance, at the head of the considerations for Italy of the Monetary Fund, the OECD, the European Central Bank and the European Commission. In its reform we ask it to be consistent with its courageous statements of today and of the past days: finally transform the Workers' Statute into a new simplified single text, where the typical permanent contract is more convenient for all employers, and therefore also for the many unemployed or precarious. [[Applause from the NCD Group]] If there are still resistances, we are with you to make a decree-law, because we cannot wait passively nor fail the objective of the greater employment that good rules contribute to producing. [[Applause from the NCD Group]] Second. Justice becomes just if timely in time, predictable and respectful of the rights of defence in the medialy confidential manner, responsible for manifest errors. You used strong and clear words about the rule of law: new words on the left that we fully share. Third. The exercise of the powers to reorder the tax system must correspond for us to two objectives: the defense of the taxpayer from the imponderable action of the administration and a fairer taxation for the family that widens and owns the house, as for the enterprise that grows and assumes. Fourth. The primary task of the stability laws is to cut expenditure and taxes by meeting those commitments which the Union can make on the contextuality of structural reforms. The cost cut, after the use of the linear criterion, can now be achieved only according to standard costs and requirements for the large operating areas and according to reference prices for purchases. The New Right Centre wanted these criteria in the Constitutional Charter and therefore invites it to apply them firmly, as has already been the case with the Health Pact, even now to municipalities and the large black hole of local public service companies. Fifth. The reform of public administrations lacks an essential element for each of them to be taken into account: it lacks that economic accounting for cost centres which, while in keeping with traditional financial accounting, is the basis on which to build objectives and control results. Sixth. In the thousand days we share the possibility of measures that correspond to the new needs emerged in civil behavior, but with some stakes for us not negotiable: marriage - with its provisions - is of the natural couple only, the rights of minors to a growth in parental diversity come before the wishes of adults; the trafficking of every human element, from blood to organs to oocytes, must be banned; the National Health Service must remain institutionally oriented to life, never to death. Last but not least, we want to grow in security. In fact, we know that security is a condition for the same growth. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, continue in this regard along the path that has already been taken in recent months: pan-European and Western vision, an ironfight against organised crime and international terrorism, humanity towards those fleeing from conflicts and persecution, and the European defence of every border. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]] The necessary framework of every public policy is obviously also for us the reform of the State, starting with its fundamental Charter, its decision-making processes and its own democratic basis. We were certainly not shy in the reform process, because after thirty years we felt that the reconstruction of the trust relationship between citizens and institutions was at stake. But now the reform chosen for the Senate inevitably concentrates on the Chamber of Deputies the functions of the complete representation of the Italian people and the self-sufficiency of the majority of the Government. We therefore agree with the criteria you referred to, the second and the first, because the new electoral law cannot be drawn on the wishes of a single political actor, but not even on those of two. And the reconstruction of the Italian right centre, which we want, however, will have an unbearable precondition in the sharing of the basic rules of democratic representation. Mr President, thank you very much for the explicit and unambiguous commitments you have made and for the direction you have shown us. For this reason, we sincerely and with the commitments that result, wish you good work. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Marino Luigi and Santini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u29	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u30	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have today proudly claimed that Italy is not a country like everyone else, but is a special country. And of course it is. It's a very special country. I would, however, quite simply like a normal country, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because in a normal country you would not come here to defend the CEO of ENI, who is being investigated for international corruption. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In a normal country, Descalzi would resign and the Government would have applied to the Board of Directors of ENI the code of good repute and the causes of ineligibility and decadence of the members, as the Senate had asked in June last with a resolution. But you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tell us that those who want to send Descalzi home are against the workers of ENI and their families. That's disgusting, Mr. President-in-Office. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I here, President Renzi, assure you that I am absolutely not against the workers and their families, but that I am absolutely against the corrupt leaders who govern this and other companies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let him boast that he has appointed Descalzi, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. A normal country, dear President Renzi, would have finally resolved the gigantic conflict of interests that we have been carrying for a lifetime. We would therefore not have left that they are owners of banks, insurance companies and even large pieces of the organized distribution. We wouldn't have a few big businessmen hiding behind newspapers and TV and we wouldn't even have newspapers and TVs that act as a sounding board of the interests of these parties and their main representatives, as well as of the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And we would not yet have, in a normal country, President of the Renzi Council, few families (and always the same) who have in their hands large economic groups and large banks; we would not yet have the castes of notaries or pharmacists, those of architects and engineers, who are often the same who win contracts. Nor would there be, in a normal country, thousands of shops, trade names or refreshment points, agricultural owners, thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises choked by a banking system that no longer lends money, because the banks are much better off with financial speculation. This is the normal country I imagine. In a normal country - this you have trod him very heavily in your speech - the scourge of precariousness would be seriously addressed. Instead, you came to tell us that the country is divided between protected and unprotected, and you called them workers and citizens of series A and series B. Instead, it is time, in my opinion, to say goodbye to these differences, but seriously and not as you proposed. Let me make it clear that you want to bring the labour market down to a level with a reduction in protection for everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You said, President-in-Office of the Council, that for work the model is Germany, but you did not tell us and never reminds the Italian citizens that from this model will be excluded all the shock absorbers and all the protections that German workers enjoy. So, dear President-in-Office of the Council, you imagine that there are no A-series and B-series workers to equalise upwards, but only and all C-series workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President of the Council, I listened to you both in your speech to the House and, of course, in what you held here in the Senate of the Republic and I want to outline what we would do in a thousand days, with points in which we draw an Italy with a normal face: that normal Italy that everyone asks of us, but that in your speech I frankly could not see. First: in a thousand days we introduce the income of citizenship in Italy. It is not a utopia, President-in-Office of the Council. It is the only serious way for us to restore hope to all those who are now excluded from the labour market and who are unable to reach the end of the month. It is the only way to restore the dignity that has been taken from them. In short, it is a question of guaranteeing support to those on the margins of society, to those who are forced to leave our country, to those who do not find a solution and do not listen. What has the Government done to our attempts to introduce citizenship income into the various decrees and bills passing through this House? He always said no. And this is good for the citizens to know; it is not said by his Florentine mouth, I say it. In a thousand days, President-in-Office of the Council, we are changing immediate measures to relaunch small and medium-sized enterprises, ranging from the abolition of IRAP to the halting of VAT increases. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are not things we tell your government today: we have repeatedly proposed them here, but the majority - and not only the majority - have always said otherwise. In the meantime, however, we have moved autonomously, creating a guarantee fund for the small business, in which we have already donated over 6 million euros taken from our salaries. It does not appear to me that your revolutionary government has convinced the Members of your equally revolutionary party to do the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In a thousand days we give our country a serious anti-corruption law and reinstate the crime of fake in the budget. What do we do like this? We restore the rules and also help the economy and work. Indeed, corruption in this country eats EUR 10 billion of GDP per year (EUR 100 billion in the last ten years). Yes, it is. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know this very well, but, in keeping with the mythical Nazarene pact, with Berlusconi, you did not want to reach agreement in Parliament at all, and to date everything is virtually firm. In a thousand days, with our program, we would really abolish the Provinces, and not by pretending, as your Government did with the Delrio Decree-Law: your Government abolished only the Provinces elections, but the costs and expenses remained and increased, as well as the refunds remained. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Again, in a thousand days we will abolish Equitalia, which has become the armed arm of the Revenue Agency and, instead of pursuing the great evadors (which would be good and right), oppresses the little ones and the little ones by closing an eye on rich and powerful. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In conclusion, in a thousand days, always in our proposals, we would make a law on the conflict of interests that restores transparency to the institutions and makes them finally worthy of a modern country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You promised to make such a law in a hundred days, but I know you won't do it in 10,000 days. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In a thousand days we can try to really have a different, better Italy. I say this here, in this House, to my colleagues and I say it to the country: those who really want to change Italy can move forward, step forward, do not be afraid and try to share the points of this thousand-day programme. You said that your government has worked with great cooperation and sharing on many points and that reforms will all be done together or will not be done. I conclude by saying that I have seen another film, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that I have seen in this House a wall against a wall on constitutional and Senate reforms. If this government and the majority who support it want to continue with the wall against the wall they know that we are willing to continue here, they know that there are no fears: we are not afraid, not even to go to the elections after tomorrow. But if anyone really wants to change, we are the first to put the wall against the wall back on a dignified footing, but, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must forget the attitude that he has taken since he first set foot in this House. With that attitude your government will not go very far, I can assure you! [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u31	He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, six months ago you presented your Government and your programme to this House. He asked for the confidence of this House, but he had to tell us that he wanted to be the last President of the Council who asked for trust in this House. We have made, the Democratic Party and Forza Italia, an agreement on important and shared reforms, but also on this agreement you wanted to dictate a timetable and set a precise date to be respected: by August. Well, we in Forza Italia, when we make the agreements, respect them, even when the Senate is asked to self-form itself, even to fail in its role, in August. Today, however, we are faced with such dramatic events that we cannot limit ourselves to defining the period within which measures or proposals must be taken. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have returned to the deflation rate in 1959, to the investments in construction in 1967, to the purchase of houses in 1985, to the industrial production in 1986 and to the unemployment rate in 1998. Instead of moving forward, we're going back twenty-thirty years. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Meanwhile, near the doors of our home, we have a European war, a terrorist group that is becoming a state and a country in disarray - Libya - which becomes the funnel of emigration and an exodus of almost epochal peoples. A thousand days you ask us, President? In our opinion, 500 would be enough to give some answers and 107 of these are the ones that remain to you as European President. I propose five strong issues on which to open a serious debate in Parliament and in the country. The first theme is the debt attack. As always, even today, he has not mentioned this in his long report. But it's the country's main problem. It is the problem that always puts our representatives in Brussels in awe in every European debate. But apart from some declarations of goodwill on the privatisation of shares in public industrial assets, this drama, you and your government have never taken care of. The reasoning you have made is as simple as, to the evidence of the facts, wrong: you felt that Italian GDP could magically grow and that this growth, changing the debt-to-GDP ratio, solved the problem on its own. Unfortunately, that was not the case. In DEF 2014 - I would like to remind you that it is April this year and, therefore, goes back five months - you predicted miraculous growth of GDP (+0.8 this year, +1.5 for 2015), reinforced by the equally miraculous effects of the so-called reforms. You had predicted an increase in consumption, an increase in employment, and so on, dreaming. Today, however, there is a severe awakening and it is clear to all that the programmatic measures have had a completely irrelevant effect and that the Italian economy is increasingly far from leaving. There is no other solution, President Renzi, than to have the courage to seriously attack the debt. These days I have read 5 or 6 "recipes" to reduce the Italian public debt. Very modestly I would like to remind you that Forza Italia, on more than one occasion, has made several proposals, which could significantly reduce it: the sale of public goods, the sale of companies for state property concessions, the sale of assets, one-off transactions, such as the tax agreement with Switzerland. By the way, what happened to him? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Probably there are no miraculous solutions, so today I do not claim to sell our recipes as if they were miracles. But today Forza Italia strongly asks you to face with clarity and courage the reduction of debt, with a large public consultation of political forces, business organisations, banks and Italian society, from which can come a serious and shared agenda from which to start again, without wasting any more time. The second point is the reduction of labour taxes and tax reform. Reducing taxes seems to me to be possible - as you said this morning - in a decisive and sensitive way for everyone. The coverage is that of the spending review. By the way: do you want to give us a precise answer on the spending review? Seven billion were those of the good turning point of March this year; three billion were those of Cottarelli, as stated during the hearing in the 5th Commission, here in the Senate; four and a half billion were those foreseen by the DEF. President, a number, we just need one. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] One of those expressed by representatives of your Government and by the Commissioner at the spending review is enough. We ask you only one thing: the certainty that savings are used to cover a strong reduction in taxation on labour, and therefore for everyone. But we have another dream, President, a dream that might also interest you. Our dream is to have a simple and sure tax system, in which every citizen pays, know what to pay and be sure that everyone pays: flat tax. You, Mr President, have stopped your good intentions on tax reform. Actually, and if you'll allow me, they're not even that good. You have at your disposal the tax delegation law, and it will certainly not be the introduction of pre-compiled tax returns or the revision of the rules concerning VAT refunds to save Italy from the degenerations of its tax system. Our recipe is simpler, more radical and more courageous. It is a dream, of course, but it is also a choice, and a proposal certainly. It is called flat tax: a single tax rate, which is the same for all irrespective of income; a single personal and progressive deduction for weaker incomes. The result is: simplicity, reduction of evasion and avoidance, safeguard of progressiveness, efficiency and economicity, in the sense that the simplicity of the single tax and the only reduction allows families and businesses to do without recourse to the famous consultants who, at times, cost more than the taxes to be paid. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The third issue is labour reform. Mr President, your announced desire to reform the world of work is welcome and we appreciate it. Too bad it stops at a mere exercise of the will: the much-warned jobs act is nothing more than an almost infinite series of delegations, seasoned by vague, vague indications. We understand very well that you are hostage to your party and probably also to the unions - it is an old story - but we open a real and concrete discussion to bring to completion a real reform of the work, which brings Italy closer to the much-deserved German labour market, with the Hartz laws of Schroeder of 2003. Four qualifying points that, in our opinion, are absent in the jobs act: recruitment of the worker dismissed under Article 18 no longer mandatory and, as an alternative, a reasonable compensation and established by law; development of business and territorial bargaining, perhaps linking it to regional minimums; detaxation of productivity wages; promotion of apprenticeship contracts, which have always been talked about so much, but never find a definitive solution in the end. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] And I come to the fourth point, concerning the role of Italy in Europe. President. - You have spoken a lot about this this morning, more in the House than in the Senate - are you sure you did the right thing? I am referring to the choice of CFSP. We share the fact that you have long put the emphasis on the centrality of international politics today, which for too long has been on the margins of the Italian political debate. However, unlike Ashton, she did not become the first vice-president of the European Commission or vice-president of the vicar, as we read in some newspapers, a role obtained by the socialist, but Dutch - I repeat Dutch - Timmermans, while Katainen, the Finnish rigorist by definition, is vice-president and supervisor of all economic matters, de facto commissioner of the French Commissioner Moscovici, who should deal with the things that Katainen was dealing with first, but who then remained in a higher position. The German line of European rigor is also the Head of the Eurogroup, the Spanish Minister for Economic Affairs De Guindos, who walked for four hours in a laughing maritime location of Spain, together with Chancellor Angela Merkel. Finally, let us not forget - a small problem, but just as important - that the agricultural dossier is in the hands of the Irish Commissioner Hogan and it is well known - those who deal with agriculture know - how different the Irish agricultural model is from the Italian one. So I repeat the question, Mr President: are you sure that you have played your cards well? Are you sure you played our cards right? Let us not make instrumental controversy over the appointment of Minister Mogherini, to whom we wish good work and our good luck, because he will have to face firsthand a complex, frightening and dramatic scenario of international crises, on which I will address shortly. However, I believe that it is essential here to be sure of the weight that we must have in Europe to influence the choices of an economic policy that so far - as you said this morning - seems to have forgotten the main objective, which is growth. The fifth point concerns international crises and the Italian response to them. Libya, Ukraine, ISIS: these are three open fronts, three fronts on which Italy must be at the forefront, Minister Pinotti, and on which we have not yet seen its Government dictate a determined and determined policy of intervention. Our relationship with Libya is a historical and geographical link that has its roots in our history. But can we really think that the solution to the political problem of instability in the whole region and its first and direct effect, illegal immigration, is Frontex Plus? We are talking about a programme which will only start in November and which provides exclusively for patrol along the European coasts, with the limit of 30 nautical miles. And if a migrant boat is in trouble at 35 or 40 miles, what do we do? Of course, however, as we are now, we will go to rescue her: this is required by the fact that we are decent people and it is imposed by the international law of the Montego Bay Convention, so once again we will have to help those in danger and escort the boats of immigrants to the Italian coasts. This is what will happen and is happening now. We will simply passively and bureaucratically record arrivals, one by one, perhaps we will be able to give them a name, bearing alone the high costs of reception centres, administrative organisation and public security. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Yet the solution had already indicated it by the Berlusconi Government: political agreements with the countries from which migrants embark and the construction - I repeat - of reception camps created under the aegis of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees there, on the sands from where they leave [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Davico]] : and this can only happen under conditions of absolute security, and I know that Minister Pinotti understands me. Here we could make the distinctions between those who emigrate for economic reasons, those who need political asylum to save their lives and those who can constitute a real danger to our lives, as dangerous terrorist infiltrators, or rather, infiltrated terrorists. Let me ask a simple question about Ukraine: is it true that we are arming Ukrainians? [[Minds of dissent by Minister Pinotti.]] Is it true we're sending helmets and bulletproof vests? [[Minds of assent by Minister Pinotti.]] Maybe I do. The thread that links Italy to Russia sees, on the one hand, our energy supply and, on the other hand, an important share of the export of our products. It is the same thread that brought Russia back to the table of the greats on 28 May 2002, ending the opposition that characterized the years of the Cold War, inaugurated a new unified vision of the world balances and has as its primary objective the common fight against the common enemy: terrorism. Are we sure, President Renzi, that we want to lose a fundamental ally today, that a terrorist organization has made itself a state, and that we want to recreate that rift that we can no longer even call the Cold War? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] I conclude with ISIS: al-Baghdadi, the caliph, led the evolution from a terrorist group to a real political project. ISIS not only proposes terror to the West, but today proposes itself as a valid and desirable alternative for the whole Sunni Islamic world oppressed. That's why it surprises us that 30,000 or 20,000 men - or those who are, but still that's the figure - can occupy cities of millions of inhabitants with impunity: they occupied Mossul, Tikrit and Fallujah, without hurting. The political key with which the terrorist threat faces again at the gates of the West, with the same ferocity and determination, must force this West to alliances in that same Islamic world that fears fundamentalist drift as much as and more than we do. And the role of a great coalition, first of all united by the same political objective of fighting extremism and fundamentalism, is not only to block the advance of the so-called Islamic State, but also to create and consolidate those conditions of security and development fundamental to the stability of the entire area. By the way, Mrs Pinotti: are we sending weapons to the Kurds or not? [[Minds of assent by Minister Pinotti.]] It seems to me that we are sending old Kalashnikovs and old RPG-7 rockets, all things that are useless: does al-Abadi allow us or not? On this point too, perhaps I would ask you a little more clarity, Madam Minister, even in the confidentiality in which these things have to happen, even if it would be worth knowing them. We appreciate, Mr Renzi, the attention he wanted to devote in his speech to international issues, but we would like to see objective indications and strategies drawn in a more precise way. You have today launched a challenge to Europe, the country and Parliament to carry out reforms that stop the decline of our country. And we who are responsible opposition, who only care about the good of the country, today respond to them: we accept the challenge, provided it is true reforms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] We will push it, in the Chamber and in the Commissions, both to continue on constitutional reforms that common path that has already been started both with proposals that represent a real change of the country. You, President Renzi, allow me today, addressed your party and if it is true - as Benedict Croce said this morning - that the character of a people is its history, its whole history, and nothing but its history, let me now quote you: in order to change the country, we must all change. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Davico. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u33	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for informing Parliament about government policies over the next three years. Of course, we will evaluate the measures as soon as they are launched, but its initiative allows us to know from now on the synthesis of the political guidelines and the map of the interventions that the Government will adopt: labour market and school, justice and public administration, electoral law and institutional structure, tax and industrial policy, civil rights and RAI. This isn't just your government's agenda. It's also the list of the country's delays. It is an indication of the measures that governments and parliaments have not wanted or been able to take in recent decades. It is also the debt list that policy has contracted towards citizens. You confirmed that the legislature will last until 2018. This is important not because the Democratic Party is concerned with elections, but because Italy absolutely needs political stability. In three years we had four governments and that season must be considered over. Its information is also an act of transparency vis-à-vis the public. A necessary transparency, considering that Italy will be able to overcome the crisis that is humiliating it only with the commitment of the whole nation. Parliament's responsibilities are clear and this is confirmed by the serious delay with which the plenum of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary is reconstituted. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say one thing: the secret vote is to protect the freedom of conscience of Members of Parliament, not to be used in political maneuvering. But, without the active participation of citizens, economic and social forces, private capital, the world of culture and science, without the help of the same media, whose public function is increasingly evident, without an overall response from the country, the crisis will never be overcome. The government's decision to reduce public expenditure seriously must be welcomed for many reasons: reducing it serves to honour our commitments with Europe; it serves to remedy, even late, the unconsciousness with which, especially in the 1980s, the government, Parliament and the social forces of that time, violating Article 81 of the Constitution, have put on the shoulders of future generations one of the largest stocks of public debt on the planet. For Italy, however, the spending review cannot have only a defensive, accounting sense. We must give it a positive, constructive value, we must make it clear that cutting waste and simplifying the public machine is also a great opportunity to reform the state, make its action more effective and restore its authority and dignity. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ranking the country's problems is always wrong, but I feel I have to tell you something. In recent decades our State, understood as a set of institutions and activities entrusted to it, has been weakened and mortified in institutional efficiency, in the exercise of democratic powers, in prestige and authority, with serious effects not only on the decline of public morality and the sense of the State, but also more simply on the ability of public administrations to react promptly to the impact of problems. The faults of politics are not enough to explain the very high level of tax evasion, the spread of corruption and the widespread influence of the mafias in several pieces of the national territory, nor are they sufficient to explain the delay in the issuing of 750 implementing decrees without which important laws are unable to operate. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]] The truth is that we have let the state decay and, without an efficient and functioning state and administration, there is no policy, no parliament, no government that can work successfully. That is why I insist, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: spending review is a valuable opportunity not only to reduce public spending, but, before that, to restore our State's administrative strength and operational capacity. The heart of the spending review is the reform of the state; or, if you prefer, the reform of the state is the real spending review. A few days ago Governor Ignazio Visco declared that Italy had little time left. At the same time, Paul Krugman said what many people think: for Europe, the crisis we are going through is more serious than that of the 1930s. In this context, we would be wrong not to grasp how much and how, on us, wars that bleed large parts of the planet can affect. Pope Francis spoke of the third world war torn apart, with crimes, massacres and destruction. It is illusory to think that the widespread geopolitical and military instability does not concern us directly and does not have negative effects on us as well. Relations with traditional gas and oil suppliers are at stake, delicate trade ties are in danger, interests are differentiated between allies, the risks of unpredictable acts of violence originating in increasingly large areas, out of control, in which new centres of recruitment and training of international terrorism are insisting. I recall the wars and violence not so much to the Government, President Renzi, who is well aware of these risks, but to Parliament to ask for urgency in the examination and approval of the reforms. A reformed, strong and efficient state also serves us to better resist violence. Next November 9th, in a few weeks, will be 25 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall. And you need to remember that. Since the end of that world order, then so deprecated, wars have multiplied and instability has increased. Today we know that because of its weakness the UN, as it was built in 1945, is no longer able to guarantee neither peace nor justice in relations between nations. Renewing the UN (not only in the composition of the Security Council) is not a diplomatic requirement today: it is the only hope to rebuild a just world order. I would like to close with a comment on Europe. The possibility of moving from recession and deflation to a lasting phase of growth depends on our ability to reform and the willingness to change in relation to European policies in recent years. Italy does not question budgetary rigour, but fears the social and economic failures of an obtuse austerity. Italy does not ask for special interpretations of the Treaties. However, it merely expects them to be applied in their entirety and in full adherence to the spirit of the Community and to the constituent values of European integration. Not all EU countries have ratified the Constitution for Europe. Not everyone has incorporated in their Constitutional Charter the constraint of balanced budgets. Italy did. Therefore, Italy has full title to demand that the constitutional law of the Union be enforced in the same way by all the acceding countries. Above all, it is entitled to demand that European law be applied in full, in all its parts, without losing sight of the fundamental objectives and values of Community construction. These values are set out in the first articles of the founding Treaties, where we read - I quote, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - that the Union is working for the sustainable development of Europe, based on balanced economic growth and... on a social market economy aimed at full employment and social progress. In the words of the Treaty "sustainable development", "social market economy", "economic growth", "full employment", there is the spirit of Europe, there is the drive that has made us promote united Europe and there is the reason that makes us part of it. Today we know how utopian it can be to talk about political union, or even the United States of Europe. But the seriousness of the economic crisis, the wars in progress, international tensions must also lead us to utopia. European citizens and European governments have an interest in fighting for the political union of the continent. The economic short-sightedness of Europe and its too marginal role in foreign policy have the same origin: the lack of a common European political will. I would ask you, Mr Renzi, to remind our European partners, with the frankness and insistence of those who know they are right, that the lack of a true political union and a true European parliamentary government is the reason not only for the growth of the eurosceptic and nationalist forces, but also for our decline on the world economic, political and military scene. Italy has a clear mission: it must help Europe to understand that the complexity of the problems needs a common political response, which only the democratic completion of the unitary process can make possible. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE PI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u35	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u37	You have the right to do so. Senator Panizza, I remind you that we have a tight time since the House of Deputies is about to meet Parliament in a joint sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u38	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am taking the floor to clarify something which concerns Trentino, but which has taken on a national and international echo and which has, moreover, attracted the attention of several colleagues. I'm talking about the Daniza bear, who died during the logging operations. The way in which the story was told by the media has fueled an emotion that risks making the real terms of the issue disappear. The Autonomous Province of Trento, years ago, gave rise to an important repopulation operation, the project "Life Ursus" in order to avoid the extinction of the species. It was a project of enormous difficulty, which had to find a balance between nature, the presence of man and the preservation of his activities. After years we can say that the project has worked beyond all expectations: no one can therefore question the strong environmental and animalist sensitivity of Trentino. In our territory, from repopulation to today, about 77 bears were born, for a population that is now 49 specimens. However, the safety of people cannot be endangered, or the idea can be given that the Province does not take care of it, because the result would be the opposite, i.e. leading to a rejection by the public of this complex and important operation. And then, if you really love bears and animals, you need to have a serene and free reading from any emotions about what happened, avoiding issuing sentences and trying to put yourself in the shoes of a family or a farmer who lives in the mountains and works there every day. In addition to the issue of the safety of the inhabitants, in fact, it must be remembered that in these years there have been countless cases that have seen the attack on the heads of cattle, tearing up the flocks, destroying hives. All cases that the Province has promptly provided to repay, with a not negligible financial commitment. (17.53) (FollowING PANIZE). I therefore ask for respect for Trentino, because the risk - and it is a real risk - is that it skips the project and that bears are remembered only when such sad things happen, when Trentino with its public structures and its communities thinks about it and shows its attention 365 days a year. This is what I had to do, to specify how things really turned out. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u41	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, on 12 September in Vasto, in my municipality, there was the beaching of a few sperm whales: it was the second most serious beach in the Mediterranean. At Punta Penna, on our coast, there are seven cetaceans: the causes of the episode are perhaps to blame the air gun, a technique to search for oil deposits in the subsoil, with which you repeatedly shoot compressed air. Probably, even if we don't know for sure, cetaceans lose orientation and quickly float up, going to meet embolisms. My speech does not concern this aspect, although I could be critical especially with the Democratic Party and with my mayor: many mayors of the coast belong to the Democratic Party and have rushed to say against drilling; but here there have been parliamentary acts according to which drilling could have been controlled: not stopped, but controlled. There could have been greater environmental protection and certain controls, the 12-mile limit could have been restored from the coast for drilling and the draft law could have been discussed, in order to better resolve the issue of drilling. Let it be clear that the Democratic Party - and I say this to those mayors - voted against. Without this political controversy, my speech wants to be a thank you, because there are three sperm whales that have been killed, while four have been saved and have been saved thanks to the heart and will of my fellow citizens. I would like to make this speech in this House because I feel the need to thank all the volunteers in Vasto and surroundings (fishers, operators of bathing establishments, willing people), who came to the beach of Punta Penna, a wonderful place, to save the sperm whales. The beached specimens were huge, almost 12 meters long, and it was impressive to see them live. You can therefore imagine how great the commitment of these people has been to try to bring them back to the open sea, despite the lack of means and the lack of optimal coordination. The valuable support of the vast seafaring has made the difference for the success of the operations, with the rescue of as many as four sperm whales. I could thank everyone, since Vasto is a small town where we know each other. I say a name for everyone: Fernando, who has begun to coordinate his efforts. This name applies to everyone, including the Coast Guard and Civil Protection, who have shown that the union makes the strength and how it is possible to achieve difficult results when we all row together in the same direction because something unites us: in this case, the love of my fellow citizens vastly for their sea. I am proud, Mr President, therefore, to thank all the citizens of my territory who, in this unexpected situation of emergency, have given the best of themselves with only their arms and their great heart at their disposal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u44	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, what happened in the Municipality of Cardito, in the province of Naples, is a story that repeats itself: companies that sell their own business and transfer it to other companies, which then suffer and enslave the workers. How? Someone said that work ennobles man and it is true, also because our constituent Fathers included him in Article 1 of the Constitution, stating that Italy is a Republic founded not on economy or finance, but on work. Work ennobles man, but we must ensure that events such as the one currently taking place in Cardito, with a company that is trying in every way to sell the dignity of workers, do not happen. And in this regard, I preannunciation here that we have prepared a parliamentary question that I hope will become urgent, a question that will be asked in the Commission precisely to shorten its procedure because we want the families involved to be heard. I am referring to a transfer of a company that seems to be, most likely, a pirate transfer, without any communication to workers or their trade union organizations, thus also violating the existing legislation on the transfer of employees. The employees of the La Masseria mall today do not know who their employer is, whether La Masseria srl or a new company, because now they have another person who commands them and tries to transfer them to other corporate offices. These people, who already have a four-hour job a day, should move and go to work almost an hour away without being able to return costs and it is therefore clear that they are trying in a fictitious way to request their resignation. All of us, as parliamentarians, must oppose this by ensuring that the parliamentary question I have foretold has an immediate procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u45	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-311.ana.u46	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 17 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18:01.
