ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you, please, to have the air conditioning system checked, because there are very high temperature changes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u5	He could cover himself more, so he avoids these resentments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u8	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u9	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) I would ask colleagues to recover the card and vote. (Several senators entered the Chamber during the vote.) Colleagues, we're checking for a quorum. I urge you to vote quickly. (Some senators are late to take their seats.) Colleagues, you seem uninterested. Please take part in the vote if you intend to do so. Senator Arrigoni, we're waiting for you. I can't keep the vote open yet. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Colleagues, my duty is to allow all the senators present in this House to vote, hoping that this will happen quickly. (The senators continue to stream into the Chamber). If Mr Lumia wants to be with us. Not seeing anyone, not even in Piazza Navona... Come on, colleagues! Comfortable, huh? I am waiting for one last colleague and then I close the vote. The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause and comments from the M5S Group]] Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u12	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, I would like to point out the malfunctioning of the Senate server, which has been going on for two or three days now.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u15	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to ask you a polite question. When a quorum is requested, should there be a certain period of time between the request and the closure of the verification? Otherwise, honestly, I feel caught up in my faculties of request and verification of the quorum. It is clear that if I ask for it and wait ten minutes for everyone to come, then my request loses its weight and value. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to call on you for the next few times, please, to close the verification within the set and logical times, otherwise you will weaken me if in one day you want to use this instrument to make the "constructionism" that is in my faculties as a force of opposition. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u16	Senator Montevecchi, I didn't make myself clear before. The time to express support for the request is predetermined by the Rules of Procedure. The time for verification is what is necessary for all Members of this House to be able to express their presence. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Without applause. As long as the parliamentary assistants tell me that there is still someone who is withdrawing the card or Secretary Senators the presence in the Chamber of someone who is entitled to vote, I must keep the procedure open.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u17	Mr President, colleagues were still coming in! We must also establish mutual respect. If you tell me that all Members in this House have the right to reach their seats and to register their presence, I accept that, but if you tell me that on this occasion we were waiting for colleagues already in this Chamber to reach their seats, you are taking me by the nose again, because people were coming to this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The doors weren't locked. Excuse me, but it's to restore respect for each other's intelligence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u18	Senator Montevecchi, just out of respect for all the intelligences present, I remember that there is only one case in which the closing of the doors is foreseen, that of the counter-test with respect to the outcome of the votes made by show of hands. There is no prescription for checking the quorum. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u19	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u20	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,12 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u21	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1275, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that the debate on the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the Decree-Law was concluded in the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u24	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, the Civic Choice Group will vote in favour of this measure, because it believes that good work has been done by the Government and the Environment Commission of the House, although unfortunately not also by the Senate Environment Commission, which has found itself in the need to proceed in the fight to avoid the revocation of the decree. I want to highlight only three points, with particular reference to the Land of Fires. The first point is that this decree makes of national importance a case that is local up to a certain point, because it is fundamental for the image of both Italy and a fundamental productive sector such as agriculture. Secondly, this decree brings an innovation, which has actually come at the request of several groups, but which the Government has had the advantage of grasping, that is to do a systematic monitoring, if I remember correctly, of even 3,800 square kilometers of agricultural territory. In fact, it would be very important for this kind of monitoring to find... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I find it difficult to speak with this confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u25	He is absolutely right, also because his lovely colleagues are being entertained just behind him.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u26	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Thank you, President. As regards monitoring, as other colleges have said, I hope that what will be done in the Land of fires will also be reflected in other areas of the country, also because it must be recognized that the problem of the delivery of waste that we now call special, in the seventies, eighty or even earlier unfortunately was normal in vast areas of the country. The third point for which I consider the decree-law in question to be very important is the set of important health actions that are being implemented, in particular screening. It may seem that we spend a lot of money on this, but in reality if we go to see it we realize that it is a few euros per inhabitant; I also feel that the decree-law states that it must be the Higher Institute of Health that prepares a project to be carried out together with the Government. It is essential that these are targeted screenings, which make this activity really useful, and not just a measure with a reassuring or - worse still - propaganda value. This will be done not only in the Land of fires, but also in Taranto. To conclude, the Group's vote in favour is also a hope that attention will remain high in relation to the problems of this area of the country and that the change of pace that occurs thanks to this decree-law (at least, we hope that it is recorded) will also be reflected in other areas, as it is necessary to ensure that the devastation of the territory that has occurred, in particular in the past, due to the provision of waste finds the right countermeasures.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u29	D'ANNA (GAL). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of the Group's vote on this decree-law, even though I have already explained in the general debate the absolute marginality of these speeches, if not their uselessness. I listened a moment ago to my colleague who described in Article 2 paragraphs 4-c, 4-d and 4-g, relating to the allocation of EUR 25 million for the year 2014 and of EUR 25 million for the year 2015, which should be used for the exemption from the health card in the case of cancer. However, both in Puglia and Campania the appropriations to cover the actual needs for diagnostic services have been underestimated for many years: in Puglia, they manage to cover less than 50% of the needs, in Campania no more than 70%. Therefore, any cancer sufferer, or who is subjected to antiplastic or radiant therapy, in Campania when the month of September has arrived, either pays for the therapies or has to do them at public facilities with waiting lists that we already know. Taking advantage of the presence of Minister Orlando, let us ensure that at least these resources are placed on the expenditure ceilings of the facilities, both to ensure that patients are covered for these laboratory diagnostics, radiology or any other specialty that can allow monitoring in advance or during the course of therapy, but, above all, so that they can be used specifically, both by public structures, as well as accredited structures, that in Puglia and Campania provide about 70% of the diagnostic performance of this type. So, Minister, let's not send money to the regions without a destination constraint. If these 50 million have been indicated to cover those monitoring profiles, through diagnostic-therapeutic pathways, the regions need to use them to refocus and re-fill the scarce appropriations. I repeat: in Puglia there is 50% coverage and in Campania 70%. What else to say? What I've said on several occasions. Minister, we have been living in an emergency state for 25 years. I want to tell you about my own experience. I was a city council member in Caserta Province and, in 1987, I had a financing of 36 billion lire on European funds for the construction of a heater. The project was of ENEA and, therefore, everything was done according to the techniques that at the time were the most modern. Minister, we have not succeeded in ten years (where, then, the time has expired to make the plant) to allocate the plants in a single community of the Province of Caserta, because of the pedissequa action done by certain left and some ecologists, who, criminalizing those plants, have left things such and such 25 years ago. We threw the garbage in the ditches (which are then said to be managed by the Camorra), but pressed the prefect of Caserta to allow the spills also contra legem. Are you following me? If you do not solve together with the governor of Campania the problem of the realization of the plan of the cycle of the waste with the allocation of the plants, also military manu (I remember that the plant of Acerra was done with the intervention decided of the government Berlusconi, that militarized the area), the problem will never solve it. In fact, what penalizes Campania is a widespread culture that wants to apply the theorem of all or nothing: either we transform all the garbage into compost or other materials that are reusable (so, by applying the law of Lavoisier in its entirety, "everything is transformed and nothing is destroyed"), or we become wise and supposed and we are the smartest in the world. The other regions of Italy and other nations, even those most evolved from the point of view of civic sense and environmental culture and environmental protection, regularly operate this type of plant, which are certainly not the best solution, but the excellent enemy of the good. So, we dress up a presumption to say no to that, no to that, no to everything, as if, in the transformation of a product, there was something that did not have a minimum environmental impact. Even the machines produce fine dusts, carbon monoxide, waste products dangerous for man: but so far I haven't heard anyone say that you have to walk by carriage or bicycle in the Italian cities. Heat-to-energy heaters will also have their own impact, albeit minimal and within the values that science and legislation allow in terms of emissions into the air. If you don't give this speech and tell those people the truth, we're wasting time. You see, Minister, Don Lorenzo Milani always loved to say something that has often occurred to me in this House: If we don't say things that will hurt someone, we'll never tell the truth. Well, you must have the courage to say that Campania, which is not the navel of the world, must have that integrated waste management plan which has been unenforced for ten years in the drawers of the President of the Regional Council of Campania. And there it lies because we are victims of the misinformation and criminalization of the implants. On the other hand, Minister, we know them well, certain ecologists. They're a bit like watermelons: greens out and reds in. [[Applause from the LAG Group]] It is not that ecology does not have political coloring. If you want the good of Campania, you must raise the problem of how to dispose in the next fifty years, if only the incinerator of Acerra, these ecoballs, which is so taken and packaged. So, I want to say to you, Minister: well the decree and well everything you have written, but they are a corollary. The theme is to equip Campania, like all the other nations of Europe and the regions of Italy, with these facilities. On this will be measured his political capacity and his intellectual honesty as a man and a minister. [[Applause from the LAG, NCD and FI-PdL XVII Legislative Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u32	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 136 of 10 December 2013, which is currently under discussion in this House, is certainly not a decisive measure, but it deals responsibly with an environmental, health, economic and, I would say, social emergency. It is a measure that seeks to stem a drift that not recent history, characterized by criminal actions that have participated in many and different, has put to national attention without any regional limitation and with collusions recognized, as from judicial investigations, also at national level. To the environmental sufferings of a well-defined territory, specifically of the Campania and Puglia Regions, sufferings, also defined pathologies, have been added, which have undermined the health of the citizens. Ecological investigations are underway in this regard, and the decree intervenes with measures aimed at further deepening, I would say to encourage preventive paths, which are based, therefore, also on greater administrative and health rigour. The indignation of a large part of the Campania population, in organised and non-organised forms, has raised the problem of environmental pollution, has been and is an act of denunciation. But to this denunciation it was necessary to give a complete answer and the decree in question wants to fulfill, doing it own, this task. It is a response that recalls an interdisciplinary analysis that involves different professional skills and institutional responsibilities, as well as the concrete and reliable implementation of preventive paths. But what is the humus, the foundation of this decree? It is the realization, if you, Minister, agree, of a substantial equality, which implies, as expressly provided for in Article 3 of the Constitution, the duty of the State to remove the obstacles preventing the full development of the human person and the effective participation in the social organization of the country. This means recognising the social rights that provide citizens with the public benefits necessary to achieve minimum levels of civil existence. These rights are conferred on the citizen not as an individual in isolation, but as a member of a social group. I would like to focus on the right to health, not only for my ancient skills, but for a rich sharing carried out within the Senate Health and Health Commission, which I thank again for the effective cooperation. This right, governed by Article 32 of the Constitution, is attributable to the category of inviolable rights and has dual nature: it constitutes a fundamental right of the individual which is based on the protection of the physical and mental integrity of the human person and can be invoked by citizens both against the State and public bodies and against individuals or employers; it protects a collective interest of society not to suffer negative consequences from uncontrolled hygiene-sanitary situations that could be the cause and spread of diseases. The right to health, always because of the achievement of a substantial equality, recognised and guaranteed by our legal system through the National Health Service, requires the implementation of adequate policies for the individual citizen and the community, also through an organic system of legal norms aimed at regulating the relationship between man and the environment and health. The Constitution provides for the identification not of the right to health tout court, but of the protection of health and public action directed to the protection of the same, because not only as an interest of the community, but also and above all as a fundamental right of the individual, an absolute incoercible primary right. According to consolidated interpretation in doctrine and jurisprudence, the right to health is a primary right: the Republic provides (and must provide) for the protection of health as a fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the citizen's community, ensures its protection in an absolute and unconditional way, as an intrinsic way of being of the human person. Generally speaking, with the combined provisions of Articles 32 and 2 of the Constitution, the right to health is also attributed to a content of sociality and safety, so that it can be configured not only as a mere right to life and physical safety, but as a right - and I would like to bring it to the attention of the Assembly - to the healthy environment, which can be protected against any person, whether public or private, who risks sacrificing him or even restricting him. According to this approach, any activity that exceeds the normal tolerability that affects, for example, the health of the environment in which a person lives or works, thus damaging his biological and mental well-being, is certainly detrimental to his right to health, legitimizing the person concerned to request the suspension of the activity, without any conditioning from any interests of other order and degree. When we talk generally about the right to the environment, we refer to the right to the integrity of the environment, and this position is precisely qualified in terms of widespread interest, but also in terms of individual subjective law. And specifically, when the environment is healthy, reference is made to the damage to health caused by pollution phenomena, that is by phenomena that affect physical and mental health, as an effect of the violation of the integrity of the environment. The right to health is therefore linked to the obligatory and binding nature of the interventions aimed at protecting the environment, defending it from the various forms of pollution and degradation, including environmental offences, which concult the effective implementation of the law itself. The environmental offences are particularly insidious because they offend a plurality of public interests, of legal goods, from health to public safety, from the conservation of the ecosystem to the same economy of the country. That is why, when I voted in favour of the Per l'Italia Group, I would like to make one last and quick reflection. There is a need, as is also apparent from what has been developed within the Health and Health Commission, to characterize the geochemical composition of agricultural soil in areas of potential risk and already identified in studies carried out with histospecific surveys. The level of bioavailability of toxic elements with respect to the plant matrix should be determined by sampling procedures at the specific site level. It is necessary to define, particularly for areas potentially compromised in the SIN area, the potential migration paths followed by pollutants from the environmental geological sector to the biological one and from the latter, along the entire path (so-called trophic chain), up to man through innovative methodologies. The agricultural use of the land referred to as unfit for agri-food production must be assessed, expressly providing that the same land cannot have a different destination than the existing one. It is necessary to study mechanisms for regulating gene expression in microareas at risk, which makes it possible to identify the individual epigenetic profile, with the determination of very sensitive indicators able to describe more accurately the environment in which the subject lives or interacts. Finally, health prevention should be planned according to epidemiological geolocation by microareas, based on the identification of diseases with a higher oncology incidence and as regards congenital defects with greater prevalence at birth or for total prevalence. In thanking for the kind attention, I repeat the favorable vote of the Per l'Italia Group to the decree in question. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u35	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, having just heard some statements from Senator D'Anna, who has already spoken on this subject before today, who seems to put the responsibility for what has happened in these lands on the ecologists who opposed the thermo-tolerators, I am obliged to leave a trace of how things have perhaps gone. I am not the one to say it, but there are obviously many investigations and investigations in progress. I would like to remind you here of some data. From 1991 to 2013 there were 82 investigations for waste traffic; poisons were channeled from all parts of Italy to bury them directly in the legal and illegal landfills of the Land of fires, managed by organized crime casertana and Neapolitan. The investigations ended with 915 detention orders, 1,806 complaints, involving as many as 443 companies, the vast majority of them with registered office in the Centre and North Italy. Since we are lucky to have the Minister today, I would like to remind you of some of the issues that are still before us and on which we must work. This has happened because camorra and organized crime have not only acted in contempt of their own land and people, but have offered convenient services. And since our system still considers environmental crimes to be merely criminal offences, for which the sanctioning system is almost ridiculous, it is clear that this has been an extreme convenience in all these years. For companies that availed themselves of the services offered by crime, the risk was minimal. In fact, the fine was certainly much more advantageous than legal disposal. We must be well aware of this, in order to understand exactly not only what has happened, but also the way in which we must operate. In the Chamber of Deputies, where we hope to vote immediately, a section dedicated to environmental crimes will finally be introduced into the penal code. This is not a formal fact: it would really be - this yes - a historical event that could help prevent the repetition of what happened in the Land of Fires. Beware that the phenomenon has also spread to other parts of the territory, as those areas were saturated. I say immediately that the decree under consideration offers a first answer through a series of questions, which remain open. We SEL senators will cast a vote of abstention, because this decree concerns not only the Land of Fires but also Ilva. Frankly, the assessment we make on the Article concerning Ilva is very negative. Once again we call on the Government - I am doing this again formally here, as we have already done and we are forced to do on every decree - to support an effort to respect the homogeneity provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution in the matter of decrees. This would help all of us to work better and also to vote more in favour of the work done on some parts. Obviously we can say that the part concerning the Land of Fires is a first result for which we must also thank the great mobilization of citizens, of thousands and thousands of people who have become aware and at heart the battle to prevent what, not by chance, has been called biocidal, namely the killing of life in those lands. It is therefore a first response to soil mapping, inter alia of cultivated areas, of agricultural areas. Minister, you know perfectly well that, precisely because the deadlines laid down in this decree are very short, there is a serious and obvious risk of starting an investigation, which will not be complete and thorough. It was not by chance that we had tabled an amendment to that effect. In fact, these will be more indirect elements, such as remote sensing. There will be no possibility to carry out, at these times, a mapping with direct surveys on the land through a characterization activity. It will therefore be indirect investigations, with previous data, and this is a limit. I therefore hope that we can make a further leap forward as soon as possible in order to have very precise information on the pollution situation. Today in the Commission we have discussed a lot about the issue of groundwater and you know that their pollution is much wider than the site. This is certainly a limit, linked to the question of the classification of its crops. Positive elements were introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies of the Decree-Law. Unfortunately, in the Senate, given the times, it was not possible to do so because we were not able to make our contribution. Of course, I welcome the introduction of the rule on the epidemiological study of Pathways and the strengthening of control over the state of health of the resident population, as well as access to information and public participation, which I believe should be further implemented. In fact, it would not be right for the great mobilization, the work of inquiry and counter-denouncing, just when something is being done, to be humiliated and put aside. It is okay then that the crime of illicit burning of waste has been introduced, but I hope that the whole issue can finally be framed by the introduction of environmental crimes. Otherwise, what has also happened is the changes made to Articles 255 (waste abandonment) and 256 (unauthorized waste management) of the environmental code which have introduced absolutely necessary crimes, but which need a wider framework. I believe that the obligation to inform environmental crimes is also a positive initiative. As you know, an amendment tabled by the Misto-SEL Group was approved in the House of Deputies. Well, we are concerned about the reclamations because we would not want them to fall into the hands of those who have polluted. So, we demand public notices and public activity. The time at my disposal is running out, so I get to the painful part. Minister, this is the fifth time you have spoken about Ilva. We were concerned that the requirements of the AIA that we were asking for could be increased in order to improve the part relating to environmental subsidies would be relaxed, by way of derogation. Of course, with this decree-law we confirm that we are going in the opposite direction. Absolutely negative elements have been introduced, such as silent consent in case of failure by the competent authority, in derogation from the general principle laid down in paragraph 7 of Article 14-b of Law No 241 of 1990. I could entertain it with other measures that we do not agree with, such as the fact that the AIA's prescription is deemed to be fulfilled if at least 80% of the prescriptions are complied with, and continue with other elements. The truth is that the industrial plan is not there and that we are continuing by granting more and more derogations from the requirements of the AIA. I believe that we will not go very far on this road, and I have the impression that the process that has begun to bring about the recovery of Ilva as we intervene more and more by way of derogation, is likely to lead us to fail to respect the main aim, namely to guarantee Taranto a genuine environmental recovery guaranteeing, at last, the health of the citizens. That is why we shall abstain. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u38	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the clogging of the timetable of work with numerous decree-laws that always deal with several important and not homogeneous issues leads them to dismiss, as in this case, always close to the expiry of the deadlines. Result: After the substantial changes made by the House of Deputies (not all improvements), all the amendments tabled in the Commission and in the House today were given negative opinion without going into the substance of the proposals. It follows that several common sense amendments have been rejected. This will result in a messy and flawed measure. The decree-law under consideration, which gives another merciless photograph of our country, deals with three subjects of great importance. While we consider positive the norms for the Ilva of Taranto and the provisions on the regional commissioners for the hydrogeological risk, also considered the continuous emergency (such as that of these days) in which the country pours on this front, instead we judge negatively the heart of the measure, that is the part that aims to face the problem of the Land of fires. Here, in addition to the environment, there is also a health emergency for local populations. There are also the economic repercussions and the social alarm caused by the danger of Campania's agri-food products, which affect the whole country. For this reason, the main objective of the measure has become the acquisition - or re-acquisition - of a new photograph and mapping of the state of soil contamination and the prohibition in these areas of crops of species intended for human or animal consumption. But there are too many critical aspects. Firstly, there is the immediate lack of in-depth surveys of the land: the lack of reference to direct surveys of the territories is a serious deficiency, because only the effective environmental characterization of the soils will guarantee the adequacy of the land and water tables for the cultivation of food products. Remote sensing is not enough: both the general of the State Forestry Corps and the expert in pedology heard at the hearing have said so. The bodies and bodies involved are too many, to the point that, including the Ministries, they are almost thirty, and having so many leaders is equivalent to not having any responsibility. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Among these, we believe that the involvement of AGEA (Agency for Agricultural Operations) should have been removed, also in relation to the scandals that have emerged. We believe that health screening and health control of the citizens of the Campania and Puglia regions are right, but we believe that the 50 million euros needed should have been borne by the health service of the two regions, not by the National Health Fund. On the subject of financial resources, we considered it essential to have a provision, rejected this morning, which provided for an annual report and report to Parliament on the resources used for mapping and reclamation of industrial sites and contaminated land. Yet, I note that the resources at stake have gone from 3 million euros previewed at the time of the issue of the decree, to more than 80 million euros, not counting the other unquantified expenses, after the passage to the House. Moreover, for the questionable use of the military in Campania, unfortunately, the resources allocated by the law of stability to the supervision of sensitive areas of the metropolitan areas have been used. For the use of the Forest Corps of the State, for the monitoring of the territories, we emphasize that half of the resources allocated by the law of stability have been removed to the activity of prevention of the risk and public rescue of the Fire Departments: the latter is, yes, an ordinary activity that will be affected. We do not share the extension to 31 December 2015 of the technical-administrative unit for the emergency waste in Campania. This prevents the return to the ordinary management of municipal waste of the Region. In the debates of these months, it has often been intended to place responsibility for the problem on the North's industry, because in the past organized crime would bury toxic and harmful waste from the North's industries in this area. This cannot be demonstrated and could never be the bad faith of the industrialist who entrusts his waste to the transport companies, yes, belonging to the world of ecomafias. The reality of recent years, on the other hand, tells that now, faced with the absence of waste from areas outside the Campania Region, there is an extensive phenomenon of local waste abandonment. Separate collection in Campania is at a minimum and many solid municipal waste is abandoned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Waste disposal and recovery facilities are far from sufficient, even because of environmental responsibility. Then there are hundreds of illegal companies that produce illegality, and therefore abandon their waste of processing, even of counterfeit products, as Senator Capacchione pointed out yesterday. There is also a proven complicity between motorists and rubberists in the purchase of tyres in black, which therefore, once abandoned, represent the best fuel for the toxic fires, but above all it is clear and evident to all the failure of the local and regional institutions, which would have had to face for years the dramatic situation of these territories, contrasting the interests of organized crime. Where were the prefects, the mayors, the provincial presidents, the local police? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Where was the Region, Bassolino, control bodies, ASLs and ARPAs? This morning my colleague, Senator Cuomo, said that with this decree the State is the State. Yes, but, gentlemen, when will the Campania Region begin to make the Region? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] When will the Provinces of Naples and Caserta start making Provinces and when will the Municipalities start making Municipalities? Thinking of the populations concerned, of the many citizens, to whom our respect goes, gathered in associations that fight the phenomenon, to the many children who died of cancer, to Michele Liguori, who also died of cancer on January 23, the only watchman of Acerra who had not surrendered to the camorra and for years, unheard, denounced the situation in the Land of fires, as North League unfortunately we consider the present decree-law not resolving. These are still exceptional, emergency interventions, which will result in a further, endless extension of the waste emergency and in the perpetuation of disasters, judicial investigations, rigged procurement and corruption that have characterized the long years of the municipal waste management of the Campania Region, to further benefit the organized crime that operates on the territory. We do not consider the voting rules to be capable of changing the lives and habits of a society that for years has mistreated its own land or of reforming the behaviour of administrators and politicians who for years have neglected their territory and allowed the pollution of fertile agricultural land, the tombing and the burning of waste. It is emblematic what he said in 2000 during an audition Dr. Ceglie, deputy attorney general at the General Prosecutor of Naples, a well-known magistrate from the fight against ecomafia: there was for his part the first discovery of toxic waste and he wrote, to proceed with the removal, to the President of the Region, to the President of the Province, to the mayor, to the prefect, to the quaestor and of course to the owner of the fund. Well, everyone turned to the other side and did nothing. Those wastes are still there today, February 5, 2014. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Speaking in explanation of vote on the Ilva decree in June 2013 - it was not the first for Taranto - I said that a poker of decrees would not be enough to give answers to the problems that irresponsably, once again, were left without resolution. I had seen it right, because with today's measure we are in the fifth intervention for the Apulian enterprise. Even for the Land of Fires I fear it will be the same: the approach to the problem toxic radio waste did not start with the right foot, it only gives partial and misleading answers to the population. I fear that years will have to pass for the return to normality worthy and worthy of a civilized country. For these reasons, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will vote against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u41	MARINELLO (NCD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 136 of 2013 concerns, as we know, two major environmental emergencies: the one involving part of the Province of Naples and Caserta (the so-called Land of Fires) and the issues concerning the Municipality of Taranto on which the Ilva plant insists. It happens that these are two issues that insist in the South of the country; by chance they are two issues that have no local interest, therefore localistic, but they have become the honors of the news because they are two environmental issues of national interest. Mr. Minister, I'm opening a parenthesis right now. Among the four unresolved issues in our country, from the Unity of Italy to today, the southern issue, which is a national issue, must return heavily to the political agenda and the agenda of this Government. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Torrisi]] Never, as in this decree, has the Government respected, well respected, the constitutional requirements. There was certainly an urgent need to intervene in the presence of an emergency and the criterion of homogeneity of matter was also respected. And I can well say that not only as a political exponent, but also as President of the Senate Environment Commission. In fact, precisely on these two issues the Commission has worked very hard, and has worked well, dealing with both issues in the given business (the affairs assigned no. 53 and 128). As part of this discussion - my colleagues will acknowledge this - we have audited dozens and dozens of titled subjects, we have met the people of both Taranto and the Land of Fires; the Commission went to Taranto, visited the Ilva plant; then went to Caivano, visited the Land of Fires, meeting the civic committees and citizens, talking with the Forces of Order and with all the qualified subjects. And a thought goes at this moment to Don Patriciello, who goes to the greatest solidarity not only for the work he has done and which he continues to do but also for the pressures and sometimes the threats he has suffered. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Di Biagio and Caleo]] When it comes to the substance of the measure, it is in itself well-built and has greatly enriched itself during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies. It is clear that here in the Senate we would have wanted to work to improve it, to expand it in some parts, to streamline it in others, probably to implement some of the economic resources it makes available. We know, however, that this has not been possible, not only because of the length of time in the Chamber's Environment and Territory Commission, but also because of the well-known events linked to parliamentary dynamics which have marked the House's work over the past few weeks. I absolutely don't want to open this file, I don't want to argue with any political force. However, if we are to take responsibility for the acts that we are going to examine and discuss in the parliamentary classrooms, we must also be consequential and say what happens. It is not possible to extend Parliament's work in an instrumental way, by turning the House into a ring or a hellish bolgy and then going to the other branch of Parliament to criticize not only the measures but also the time allocated to them. [[Applause from Senator Dalla Zuanna]] I would add that the measure contains a number of elements that convince us, such as land mapping. This was a major issue. We know how much the agri-food production system of Campania has suffered, how much the producers of that region have suffered, not only those who produce in the land covered by the decree, but also those who operate in all the rest of the regional territory who, because of the great confusion and great fear that have been generated in the public opinion, have suffered a real market crisis that has caused damage to the producers, but even illegal enrichment of those dark forces that very often profit from the intermediary of the agri-food products. We know all the speculative dynamics that have triggered in this regard. Land mapping, therefore, has certainly been identified as one of the main mechanisms to discriminate against what can be done by what cannot be done, what must be done in some lands, and what must be done in others. It should rightly be stressed that the whole issue of mapping refers to a more general problem relating to the entire Italian agri-food system, that of food certification and traceability. This issue, however, very often in Italy, in the face of the need for the market, the demands of producers, the legitimate demands of consumers, finds moments opposed by large structures also commercial, by structures diverted from the organized large-scale distribution and sometimes also by political representatives linked to the large-scale organized distribution that do not want to be made clear on these issues. All this also brings us to another problem which, in my opinion, has not been tackled and which the policy must take on, Minister: when we go to identify the land that must be destined for non-food crops, obviously politics must also take on the redditional cessation of those producers and those owners who insist on those land and who today will suffer a decrease in their income capacity certainly not for their fault. Then, in my opinion, the single justice fund, which was established in the 2010 financial law and was a brilliant intuition of that government and those politicians, must certainly be used for this purpose too, that is to say to identify additional income measures for those farmers and producers who cannot be penalized, also because supporting the income of those farms and those farmers means taking away from the marginality and the risks of organised crime entire sections of the population. Another point, Minister: I personally believe that all Italian politics, apart from this measure, must, sooner or later, question the special laws that we are very often forced to carry out, because special laws, emerging laws are always laws that have a negative impact on constitutionally guaranteed rights. Then, clearly, we are faced with an absolutely delicate balance: on the one hand, the need for a special law that arises from emerging situations; on the other hand, the compression of constitutional freedoms. It is also for this reason, Minister, that we must be careful when authorising the use of the army and we also had to establish more clearly in this measure the limits of that use by defining better the so-called rules of engagement. These are subjects on which the Senate could and should have intervened, but unfortunately the times have not given us the opportunity. There will certainly be time to make up for it. In order to change the subject, as far as Ilva is concerned, I must say that it was well done with this decree to intervene on the matter. Surely our opinion on the resumption of the Sentieri Project, which will concern Puglia but obviously also Campania, is positive. As certainly well it was done with the decree to intervene in the matter of recapitalisation of the company using the financial assets subject to seizure. I do not want to open another issue, because I do not have the time, but it is quite clear that we cannot tolerate more conflicts by state bodies. To conclude, the New Right Centre will vote in favour of it, but, appreciated the circumstances, there are many subjects on which we will certainly come back to confront ourselves. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Sollo and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u44	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, Minister, in this House I have heard many Members speak of the decree-law under discussion as if the State was finally putting its hand to the solutions for the Land of Fires. Unfortunately, this is not the case; then let us calmly understand what these urgent provisions are for environmental emergencies. Firstly, the interventions for the so-called Land of Fires, for food safety; only on this small detail. There are also the extension of the administrative and commissioner management of Campania by way of derogation from the prohibition of extension, provisions regarding commissioners for hydrogeological failure and amendments to Article 1 of Decree-Law No 61 of 4 June 2013, the decree save-Riva, or rather called decree kill-Taranto. Let us proceed with order and analyze the fundamental points of this decree: the Land of fires and the Ilva of Taranto precisely, two of the saddest chapters of the environmental management of our country, which helps to place it, Minister, in the first place among the most polluted countries of Europe, according to the latest report of the World Health Organization. To this end, I would like to remind my colleagues in the League and you, President, that Padania is the most polluted area in the world. [[Comments of Senator Centinario]] That is what the World Health Organization says. What were we to face and not face? Attorney Donato Ceglie came to the Commission on 25 January and said clearly and unequivocally that it is established by public documents, so it is known to all since 1996, that the problem of the so-called Land of fires is linked to the illicit disposal of industrial waste which allows the industrial sector to reduce 80% of costs. Others before him had to calculate the mountain of illegal post-industrial waste, which has a volume equal to the Gran Sasso mountain. This is the first point that we should have addressed. Thanks to the hearings in the Commission, as my colleague Marinello has also mentioned, of the mayors of the province of Caserta, for example Caivano, or of the representatives of ARPAC, to the press reports and telephone interceptions of the case Di Gennaro-Bertolaso we know in a documented and unequivocal way, Minister, that the Province of Naples and the Province of Caserta suffer from a structural shortage of means and men in the Corps that deal with environmental protection and the investigative sector. In Acerra there was only one environmental watchman, Liguori, who died of cancer just a few days ago, who carried out surveys accompanied by his wife and son so as not to give in to the eye. The city officials in Casal di Principe - I say, Casal di Principe - are three. We know from Parascandola that he was putting gas in his own pocket-service car. We learn from ARPAC that its staff has 320 role-playing units and 219 precarious in the face of the 1,100 needed, Minister. That's what it turns out to any citizen who makes a call for a stake or to report an abusive dump. It happened to me, too, in my clothing now, to hear me say: There are no cars; there are no men to intervene. After all this visa and audition in the Commission with the assigned deal, what happens? Minister Orlando here present, who greets, just installed comes in proxy to Caserta and talks with the committees officialized by the famous father Patriciello and immediately mentions no food. The Environment Commission is active in moving quickly to media-oriented places. Months and months later, what is borne by the majority? The mapping of agricultural land! For charity, useful, indispensable, urgent and necessary, but nothing that the Region, together with the interdisciplinary departments of the University of Naples, the Coast Guard, the Forest Corps of the State, was not already doing. Nothing these subjects couldn't do. I called the Roman Councillor just this morning and asked him: What does this decree add to what you were already doing? He may deny it, but he said, "Nothing." And know - it has added - POR funds to which the decree refers are already spent. There's nothing going on. Then I read the 5th Commission report and I see that there is no financial cover for many of the items inserted as filling in this cake. What were we supposed to do then? We should have dealt with this in another way. We should have dealt with an environmental interforce of coordination, including investigative, probably at national and not local level; to put hand to the prescription; to arrange for the arrest in delayed flagrante and the seizure for equivalent; to intervene on the true responsibility of the producer, as we have all been asked by the prosecutors with whom we have spoken. But we didn't. We have done what the Region was already doing, that is the mapping of the land, so I tell my colleagues that we are not solving the problem of the Land of Fires. We did not do this and then ask ourselves why the decree under consideration was issued? What certainly brings home in addition to the electoral ads? The incentives to biomass, the ones Orlando in Caserta, remember? This is an abnormal passage compared to the single environmental text which provides that if a soil is contaminated, the reclamation must be done, also because a soil not only responds to itself, but is in an overall budget. We are therefore delivering Campania to the industrial sector instead of returning it to agriculture; this is the blade in the stuffed cake. Then what else is there? Gentlemen, do not say that I am in bad faith, but here there is a worrying derogation, not better specified, to anti-mafia, despite all the media ambradan on the special committee of control (and we in the casertano know what it means not to have a serious control regarding contracts). Finally we have the army, 850 units that will invade our territory without any investigative and structural function. It is not a solution: it is an emerging buffer that our territories do not want. What about Ilva? This is the fifth rescue and rescue measure and in general discussion my colleague Martelli has said well about facilitations, silence-consent, substantial loosenings of the AIA, already declared insufficient, in clear and continuous violation of the Constitution, Article 32 on the right to health and Article 41 on the right to enterprise. It is for this reason and for that reason that we of the 5 Star Movement Group will vote against this measure, but don't worry, we will win. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u47	BRUNI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law before us shows once again that knowledge is an indispensable prerequisite for dealing with environmental issues and disputes. In fact, a large part of the rules introduced focuses on the knowledge of the state of the territories and the state of health of the population. In this respect, it seems to me that Article 1 provides that the land of the Campania Region for agriculture is to be mapped so that it can know how many of them are actually likely to be used for agri-food production and which are intended for other crops. This objective, once achieved, will finally enable us to have a framework of knowledge to be offered to all the administrations concerned and thus to direct their choices in the light of certain scientific data. If you think about it, up to now the various points, the different mappings that have been discussed in today's debate in this House have been episodic, fragmentary and certainly disorganic. Very often, the only reference data used by local authorities have been those found in the various criminal investigations in Campania over the last decades, and this has not allowed the best protection of the population and the same companies engaged in agri-food production; Indeed, the very fact that a great deal of data has been detected in criminal files has created the conditions for the emergence of a growing and widespread alarmism. This has resulted in a strong division on the choices made or planned by the government and local authorities concerned, to which public opinion has not always given its assent. It is precisely in order to reverse and remedy this uncertainty that the land mapping activity provided for by the measure being voted on is therefore necessary. At the end of this activity we will be able to have greater certainty on the land that can be used and on those that must be reclaimed. For the same reasons, one cannot fail to agree on the need for more comprehensive and up-to-date epidemiological studies. This requirement is also part of the need for knowledge that is the guiding thread of the decree. The measure, in fact, establishes the publication of the data of the SENTIERI project, for example in the case of Taranto, also providing for a further implementation of the same. The ratio of this rule is certainly acceptable: it is in the direction of realising the principle of constitutionally guaranteed protection of the right to health. It is less acceptable, however, that the legislator fixed in the SENTIERI project the method and the means to have an epidemiological study relating to the troubled territories of Taranto and its hinterland. In fact, much of the scientific world believes that in order to identify the causal link between the installation or the pollutant factor and the consequences on the health of the population, a method of classical epidemiology such as that applied in the SENTIERI project cannot be used. The further use of this method will still force local authorities to make use of the only precautionary principle in order to best protect the health of citizens. On the other hand, it would be more appropriate to use more modern models, such as molecular epidemiology, with the use of biomarkers of exposure that allow to ascertain, where existing, the etiological link between pollution and damage to health with greater scientific certainty. In any case, it is certainly positive that the decree shows the need for the strengthening of epidemiological studies, since this increases that knowledge framework that allows all decision-makers (i.e. the different administrations) to be able to make the most appropriate choices, avoiding measures to stain leopard or carried out downstream of criminal seizures. Certainly useful can also be the idea of screening the affected populations of Campania and the municipalities of Taranto and Statte. With intellectual honesty, however, it is necessary to specify and mean that with that activity of health control a secondary prevention is carried out on the population (which always remains a success of the primary prevention), often used to gather people, which instead needs real works of reclamation, prevention and environmental protection. Although the critical findings have just been made, the above-mentioned standards make a positive contribution to the solution of the environmental emergencies to which they are dedicated. Among them, it is also envisaged that the crime of illicit burning of waste, which so far does not exist in our criminal system, should be explicitly introduced into the environmental code. It is good to recall, however, as has been done on an agenda proposed by the colleagues of the League, the problem of those who burn, by agricultural tradition, twigs and pruning waste: this case cannot be subject to criminal sanctions, such as the penalty from two to five years provided for in the case of the fires of the Earth or of others of the same impact. There it is good that the Government, as has been said this morning, should make a commitment in this regard. In addition to the burning of waste, there are other important novelties in the decree-law. Returning to the specific question of Ilva, it is the case to emphasize that the decree - yet another produced by the Government on the question - aims to perfect the compatibility between the decree of approval of the industrial plan and the integrated environmental authorization. This express forecast has the merit of bringing together the strictly industrial need with that of an environmental nature. This is precisely the problem of the problems that characterized the event suffered by the ionic city and its population. The decree, moreover, in the light of the experience of the past few months, allows the commissioner the possibility to request new and greater sums to the owner of the company commissioner or to find them with increase of capital, in the case of companies. This forecast is also relevant. However, I must share the same concerns expressed in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies by Mr Chiarelli, who pointed out that if much of the resources available for Ilva must derive from the kidnappings carried out against the owners, then it should be pointed out that the first measure issued by the judges of Taranto has already been frustrated by the Supreme Court and that the seizure order issued by the Milan court is far from being able to assure certain resources to the management of the commissioner. Another part of the decree that must be observed positively is that concerning the administrations commissioners for the hydrogeological failure. Particularly worthy of attention is the rule that allows the appointment as extraordinary Commissioners of Presidents or Councillors of the regions concerned. If this happens, the elbow races will end for the appointment of unlikely experts, often placed by the same policy to give a few more chairs. Significant, Minister, the last story of the Commissioner for Puglia. It is legitimate to ask whether it is not better to involve the local administrators, who know fully the problems of their territory, and perhaps they cost nothing. The reasons set out above lead us to point out that the decree under consideration, however, has the undisputed merit of addressing in a more homogeneous way than in the past difficult and unsolved questions for decades. It is perhaps a first slender legislative instrument, capable of improvement and implementation. At the heart of this text is certainly the shared idea that the protection of the health of the population must not be a mere statement of the constitutional legislator, but a daily objective for which to spend all our energy and resources. If this happens, as I said at the beginning, in an ever more objective and unique framework of knowledge and certain data, then we will have made the role of all those who are obliged to difficult and sometimes exicial decisions for our territories easier. Moreover, it will produce the virtuous side effect of preventing any environmental issue from being accompanied by various alarmisms, which disturb and threaten to mislead the debate on such complex issues as the one we are examining. These last reasons, President, together with the reasons set out above, lead us as the Forza Italia Group to vote in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u50	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, Minister, Undersecretary and ladies and gentlemen, I would like everyone here today to reflect on something that is fundamental to me. With the measure presented for conversion, the government finally shows that it wants to face and attack problems that for too long had been left to rot without a solution. Let's be clear: in this affair the institutions, and with them the political class, have not shone; indeed, distinguishing themselves for decades of errors, absences and forgetfulness, have demonstrated the inadequacy in providing effective answers in time. The tragedy of the Land of fires and illegality spread in Campania is a phenomenon that has long been known. It has long been known that in this extraordinary territory, to which organized crime has inflicted an almost mortal blow (the ancient Campania Felix, so rich both for the variety and importance of its food productions and for the beauty and importance of its historical and cultural heritage), the Camorra has implemented a real industrial plan, founded on the business of waste and able to overcome even that of drugs. We were told by the Commission of Inquiry into Waste, the proceedings of the Naples prosecutors, together with an important part of the healthy community that is not going to give up. All this, however - it has to be said - would not have been possible without the complicity of a part of the productive fabric and not only of the Mezzogiorno: just think that some of the drums that have been found, my colleague Arrigoni, bear the signature of companies in North-Italy and North-Europe that with easy shortcuts have put the profit and the money easy to respect the laws. A story that has been known for a long time, thanks to the courage and denunciation of citizens, the Church and committees, has been placed in the attention of public opinion and institutions determining this intervention. It is an intervention that, in my opinion, goes in the right direction, starting from the need to solve an environmental emergency of this magnitude, but it also outlines a path based on the protection of the environment, the protection of health and work and the restoration of the legality for the relaunch of its territories. Of the measures put in place I would like to point out in the first place the interventions in the field of health protection, the important allocation of resources (equal to 25 million euros per year for 2014 and 2015) for the free health surveys for the populations living in the Land of fires and in the municipalities of Taranto and Statte regarding the Ilva, as well as the updating and publication of the study SENTIERI, an in-depth and important study on epidemiology and therefore on the effect of environmental pollution on the health of the citizens, and the strengthening of the related studies. In this regard, Minister, an agenda has been approved which commits the Government to support the strengthening of the epidemiological surveillance system, a public health activity aimed at keeping the health status of the populations concerned under control over time and space. Another important point is the mapping of land for agriculture. It is also planned to launch an extraordinary programme for the reclamation of sites polluted by the illegal spilling of waste, to which reprogrammable resources are allocated and above all - I stress this because it is very important - also the resources confiscated to crime for environmental crimes committed in the Campania Region. The strengthening of the activity of prevention and control of the territory, combined with the provisions for transparency and free competition in the custody of monitoring and reclamation activities of the polluted areas, represent an important signal against the risk of new infiltrations of organized crime. With the introduction into our legal system of the crime of the illicit combustion of waste we have achieved a fundamental objective, the first step of that plan to strengthen the instruments provided for in the legal order to protect an essential good such as the environment that, as a Democratic Party, we have decided to carry out with great determination. Finally, on the Ilva front, the introduction of more stringent measures for the activation of the measures contained in the AIA will certainly allow to make more timely and effective the actions aimed at the environmental rehabilitation of the Apulian settlement, further improving the interventions that this House has already approved, safeguarding employment and health. In this regard, it is worth pointing out the power conferred on the Commissioner to ask for a priority increase in the share capital for the purpose of reclamation of the site and the possibility, if this hypothesis is not realized, to obtain the transfer in the availability of the sums seized to Riva also for crimes other than the environmental ones. This measure - I say it above all to my fellow senators of the 5 Star Movement - does not give discounts to anyone and is not propaganda: with a sense of responsibility we are governing a complex and difficult situation, without demagogy and without spreading false and tendentious news through the Network and social networks. This decree-law is certainly not exhaustive, but represents... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u51	Colleagues, should I suspend the session? Silence is also an act of courtesy towards a colleague who is making his speech. Please continue, Senator Caleo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u52	This decree is certainly not exhaustive, but it represents the will on the part of the institutions to deal decisively with a problem that has long been waiting for a solution. For this reason I would like to thank especially Minister Orlando, for the work he has done in recent months, who have seen him engaged not only in the difficult task of bringing environmental policies back to the heart of the government agenda, but above all in the adoption of courageous measures that our country has long been waiting for. Now I expect that all together, fellow senators, we will also work on the long-standing issue of hydrogeological failure, an indispensable point that I ask the government to include as one of the priorities of 2014, and that it must see this House as the protagonist. We worked in September on a resolution which was adopted by a very large majority and I believe that we must start from here and work must be done to create a scheme, a framework law that can intervene where necessary. With regard to the exploitation of this branch of Parliament, my only regret is the little contribution we have been able to make. After the work done in the Commission (for which I thank the rapporteur, Mr Sollo, Mr Marinello and the technical structure) it was not necessary to get to this point. Beyond the causes that each of us can bring about, I believe that this House deserved more attention. I would like to remind you that to date the perfect bicameralism still lives. For the future, whatever direction this will take - let me say my fellow senators - we will need a greater and more proactive protagonism on the part of all of us, consistent with the changed conditions, to protect the institution. I think that issues relating to the territory, communities and all environmental issues will have to be discussed by this Assembly, which has worked on many fronts since the beginning of this legislature (from Ilva to Piombino, the traceability of waste, the first footprint on soil protection). Comparison with the territory, listening, participation are some of the activities that we have put in place in a punctual way as the Environment Commission for dealing with the various issues: dozens of hearings and inspections carried out on the sites concerned, a way not only to identify the most effective solutions, but above all to recover a relationship of collaboration and trust with the citizens and credibility in the institutions, as it should be for the consultative councils of the local community that this decree has provided and regulated. The Senate, in fact, as emerges from the reading of the Acts of the Constituent, should have represented above all in the regional framework - and in my opinion there are still the spaces to be able to implement it - the overall social structure of the Country, the living forces of the Nation, the cultural tensions of the intricate Italian society. The impossibility of a more in-depth reading of the decree-law, with proposals that made it even more effective (and there have been) in time for its conversion (falls on 8 February) all invests us with a great responsibility: that of not making decay a measure so important that marks a turning point for the progressive overcoming of the management of the infinite emergency and for the construction of a healthy relationship between the productive system and the protection of the environment and health, issues no longer extendable. For these reasons I declare, on behalf of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, that I am in favour of approving, without amendment, the text dismissed by the House. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u54	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u55	Milo (GAL). Mr President, in this very short speech I would first of all like to thank Minister Orlando on behalf of all the citizens of Campania, also and especially because, after his footbridge in what has been called the Land of Fires, he destroyed the agro-food economy of our region. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco.]] Therefore, a thank you goes to the Minister by all the entrepreneurs and the citizens of Campania. This is a story that comes from afar, of which some exponent of the Democratic Party had known since 1992. I do not understand, therefore, the urgency of this decree either. We note the goodness of the measure in our examination, Minister, especially in what has been the merit. In the House of Deputies, first in the Commission and then in the House, the text was tripled, especially on the substance. This means that most likely the text has come to us, in the Senate, armored like twelve or thirteen other measures, and of this we give ourselves, because we do not want to ratify anything with regard to the decree for the environment. I very much appreciate Mr Caleo, but he probably talked about something else, because everything he said in his explanation of vote and my colleague from Forza Italia, he said, suggests that they probably read another text. At this point, I'm just going to give you two thoughts. There are two financial cover provided for in the decree. One cover concerns the Single Justice Fund. However, no one in this House - as I said in the Commission - has said - that the Fund is used according to what is collected from the sale of the property seized. Dear Minister, it means zero. We should therefore tell the people of Campania that the government will give zero euros as far as the Single Justice Fund is concerned. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]] The other coverage is 25 million for 2014 and an additional 25 million for 2015. The colleague of the 5 Star Movement, Senator Nugnes, said that they will never arrive. I agree with you, especially because these are funds that already belong to the Campania Region. I do not understand, therefore, the intervention of the Government either, and I regret this with my regional government. I cannot say to President Caldoro that he has done well, because I do not see what his measures have been, and those of President Bassolino, going backwards in the last ten years, during the committees on waste and for reclamations. President Bassolino, before, and President Caldoro, after, have been and are still commissioners for the Bonifice. You have to explain to me who you want to tell all this talk: certainly not to the citizens of Campania! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u58	Montevecchi (M5S). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u59	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u62	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, since the system has not worked, I would like to inform the Presidency of my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u63	The President takes note of this. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make an assessment in the light of the time taken to examine this measure. I note that the provision has been detained by the House for fifty-two days and the Senate has faced it and approved it in two days. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL Group XVII]] This morning we voted 196 between amendments and agendas in one hour and forty minutes. I can only urge myself, President Finocchiaro and Senator Bruno to carry out a rapid revision of the parliamentary regulations, especially those of coordination between the House and the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Montevecchi]] There is no way in the world that the Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide thirty days for the examination at first reading of a decree-law and that the same decree is held in the House for fifty-two days. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Now let me have a more partisan evaluation. In the light of the right debate on the revisiting of perfect bicameralism and these results, a branch of Parliament should be abolished, I believe that a debate should be opened on what branch should be abolished. [[Very lively, prolonged, general applause.]] VOICES FROM THE ITALIA-THE PEOPLE OF FREEDOM GROUP XVII. Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u66	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, your speech a moment ago anticipated a speech I would have made tomorrow morning on the order of business. It goes exactly as you pointed out, but in another way. Therefore, I would ask you to review our issues as well. The Budget Commission is working, following a House that no longer has those calming fixed times that allowed us to plan the work, under very difficult conditions. This certainly leads to a decline in the quality of our work. I know that many people follow the newspapers, the press etc., but the needs of newspapers and the press are a little different from ours: they have to go out every day (and it is right that it is so), we have to work by giving the necessary time to the senators and the senators to face a product that is as easy, simple and clear as possible to use by the citizens. As far as our work is concerned, this is bound to fall, which is already in place, if we continue in this way. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to return to that calming time that was typical of the Senate. You know, sometimes things go well as conservatives; you don't have to change everything. If there is anything good, it is better to keep it, so we want to be certain about the work of this House that we no longer have. Furthermore, Mr President, I would like to add that for the past two days the debate in the Budget Committee has seen the opposition's colleagues protesting not only with regard to this problem that I have said, but also with regard to what you have put forward, because when the decree-laws arrive between the 57th and the fifty-ninth day (and more and more) the Members of the Budget Commission (I speak only of them, of course, but perhaps I also interpret the sentiments of the Members of the Commissions on the subject) have also material difficulties in examining the amendments. This can lead, I say this because my fellow Members have explained it, to forms which are also obstructive in order to defend themselves - as it is right that an opposition should do - from work which does not allow us to examine the amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In addition, Mr President, excessive zeal can lead to problems. I am sure that the homogeneity of matter is a very fair thing, but beware of the super homogeneity of matter, because the balance rewards everything: if each decree-law should be properly homogeneous we should have some tens, perhaps many tens, and this to the detriment of the works. So I would ask you, Mr President, to look at the essence of what I have said (I am also, of course, addressing President Finocchiaro because of his sensitivity, having worked together under these conditions), to review these issues pending important reforms that will certainly satisfy the anxiety of all the pens of Italy (less that of the shovels). Pending these extraordinary reforms, however, let us make the small ones, which are possible, but which make the rules clearer, more transparent and the work of the senators more appropriate to the needs. Of course, this will prevent everyone, Mr President, from implementing the powers and powers he has, and the opposition has some that he can legitimately exercise by forcing the majority to exercise others that are often not properly replicable. That is why, Mr President, I ask that the work of this House be reorganised immediately and that the Presidency of the other House be told not that there are peremptory terms, but that between 30 and 58 days there are 28 different ones, which, reduced by something, perhaps would be good for everyone. This is my plea, otherwise in the Budget Committee we could exercise those forms of defensive and legitimate obstructionism which we normally tend to avoid, certainly with positive results for the work and for the citizens, not only those who practice the profession of journalist, but for all Italians, who I think deserve equal respect for the former. [[Applause from the NCD, M5S and LN-Aut groups and the Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u67	President Azzollini, I would like to read - to remind myself of this - paragraph 2 of Rule 53 of our Rules of Procedure: As a rule, four weeks of the session are reserved for the meetings of the Permanent and Special Commissions, as well as for the activities of the bicameral Commissions, for which specific and appropriate deadlines are reserved, subject to appropriate arrangements with the President of the Chamber of Deputies; three weeks are devoted to the activity of the Assembly; one week is devoted to the activities of the Parliamentary Groups and individual Senators. This, I believe, is the most correct instrument to get the Commissions to work and go to the Chamber with educated measures, but unfortunately, at the beginning of the above paragraph, there is that "normally" which in fact has become a "never": I therefore consider it useful to return to a literal reading of the spirit of our Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Senator Malan groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u70	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, particularly as a result of your important statements, because you, as a great expert in Parliament's work, and in particular in this House, have highlighted very well how we are now experiencing a state of permanent suffering. I am referring to the two permanent committees which are constantly engaged either to give opinions or to enter into the substance of very important measures of various kinds, coming from the Government or of strong initiative. It is precisely the subject of the decree and that continuum between the Government and its majority that is founded on the right and duty of the opposition to guarantee the essence of democracy in this House. On the substance, then, the quality of our work is now in danger of being put at risk, above all, by a way that obviously is not carefully examined between the President of the House and the President of the Senate. There is a term linked to the common sense and the proper functioning of the classrooms, above all to the experiences and ability of the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, which begins to show very obvious problems. President Azzollini referred in particular to what we, in the Budget Committee today, have had to formalize and verbalise in various groups, namely that in this way we can no longer work nor can we guarantee to the whole House and the Commissions of merit that good work they do and that the Budget Commission is monitoring from the point of view of coverage. Article 81 of the Constitution is now becoming a sometimes worthless refrain, if not accompanied by a quality of analysis and evaluation on increasingly important and relevant financial cover. I would therefore ask you, together with the President of the Senate (as you have already said very well and as the President of the Budget Committee has pointed out) to be the bearer of this inescapable requirement which we now represent, and to find ourselves forced to work in the Budget Committee by exercising all the prerogatives of an opposition which is able to block the work of this House, if the minimum thresholds of participation, knowledge and sharing of good work are not guaranteed, which we want to guarantee to democracy and the citizens, as a result of a proper relationship of cooperation, including by the opposition, with a government that must be able to govern. But the opposition must be able to see its rights and prerogatives guaranteed. I also say this for the majority, who are in some way manifesting to them a suffering that everyone feels. There is a decree called "Destination Italy" that probably the Senate will not even see. But this is not the most important thing, but it is indicative of the fact that we do not take into account that balance between the two rooms that must be guaranteed to all. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u71	Colleagues, since the first Commission has not concluded the examination of the decree-law on the financing of parties, I warn you that the next item will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u72	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00199 tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, 1-00200, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, 1-00209, presented by Senator Dalla Tor and other senators, 1-00210, presented by Senator Alberti Casellati and other senators, and 1-00212, presented by Senator Dalla Zuanna and other senators, on the transit of the great ships into the Venice lagoon. I call Senator Endrizzi to explain motion No 199. (17.57 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u75	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, since Senator Endrizzi was consulting with the proposers of the other motions, I would ask you whether it would be possible to have a few minutes' suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u76	All right, I'll suspend the session until 6:05 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.57 p.m. and resumed at 6.08 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I call Senator Endrizzi to explain motion No 199.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u77	Madam President, distinguished colleagues, members of the Government, Italy is leader in the Mediterranean cruise trade, and Venice occupies... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u78	Hold on, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u79	I say this to Senator Casson and the others: I understand that you are doing an important job for the motion, but it would be worth lowering your voice a little. Please, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The crocieristica is one of the few sectors that do not know crisis. Italy is a leader in the Mediterranean, and the home port of Venice has a prominent role; it occupies thousands of people that the 5 Star Movement intends to protect. But the ships by now exceed the 300 meters of length and abundantly the 100.000 tons of tonnage. They are whole skyscrapers that touch unique monuments in the world, cross the lagoon, full of fuels with high sulphur, cut the routes of vaporets and ferry boats that are found like flies in front of the windshield of a truck, station next to the historic center with burning chimneys in a territory that already shows an increase of tumors compared to the average. Radar produces electromagnetic pollution and citizens in the surrounding areas do not see television. It is clear that this sector must be protected, but large ships must not enter the lagoon: we must apply sustainable and innovative solutions. Politics woke up only two years ago, as usual after a tragedy, that of Costa Concordia on the Island of Giglio. The ministers Clini and Passera have forbidden the transits in the channel of Giudecca for the ships beyond the 40,000 tons. But the application of the ban was conditional on the availability of viable alternative solutions. Remember this word: "practical." On November 5 last to Palazzo Chigi the president of the Council Letta, the minister Lupi, the minister Orlando, the minister Bray, the undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council, Patrons Griffi, the general secretary of Palazzo Chigi, Roberto Garofoli have met with the president of the Veneto Region, Luca Zaia, the mayor of Venice, Giorgio Orsoni, and the president of the harbour Authority of Venice, Paolo Costa, in order to decide. The territorial authorities of the lagoon eaves were not invited nor were they representatives of the safeguard commission established by the special legislation for Venice, while the conflict of interests of some of the present is evident. Giorgio Orsoni (a mayor of the Democratic Party) is a political sponsor of one of the projects, which would like to build a stopover in Marghera next to the petrochemical tanks, in place of the coal depot owned by the Salmini family. the president of the harbour Authority, Paolo Costa, (former mayor of centrolefte) is political sponsor of the plan "Contorta", the excavation of an ulterior channel wide 140 meters, deep 10 meters and long 5 kilometers; 7 million cubic meters of sediments would be piled up on the sides. Go and see on the Internet the images of the project - they are easy to find - and look at what twist will lead to the lagoon morphology, to the routes of the lagoon boats, to a landscape protected by the Constitution and UNESCO. They sell these banks as a restoration of the barns, but the barns are formed on shallow bottoms, in balance between sea and land. Hydraulic experts have already declared that these mud clusters, left to the action of the ships, will soon be sucked and dispersed, irreversibly compromising the lagoon morphology. At that meeting the defendants then decided to adopt the excavation of the twisted channel as a preferential solution, providing for a further excavation for the future: that of the channel Vittorio Emanuele, which would cut into two lagoons below above. This would result in a giant roundabout to take the ships to Marghera. At that point it is easy to predict that in order to solve the insurmountable problems of promiscuity with the heavy traffic goods, the channel of the Oils, currently in one way, should be fatally doubled. Not content, the minister Lupi has urged also the Harbour office to characterize the excavation of the Contort which chosen solution, in order to be able to insert it in the objective law. On what basis is the project "Contorta" taken as an opening solution? It is not understood how the Harbour office can, within the within of its competences, exclude other plans, that, keeping the ships out of the lagoon, would be preferable indeed for the risks of the inland navigation. Moreover, the office has already stated that it does not even have full territorial competence, but above all has no competence in assessing the compatibility of a project with the design conditions, environmental regulations and costs/opportunities. To postpone these evaluations in VIA/VAS, already foreseeing to evade them with the inclusion in the objective law of the project, seems unacceptable. Meanwhile, we're wasting time trying to save partisan interests with crazy projects. In the lagoon of Venice, interventions that are not experimental, gradual and reversible cannot be carried out; after the irreparable damage caused by the oil canal, the special legislation for Venice excludes new excavations. So, if the mountain does not go to Muhammad, Muhammad goes to the mountain: one had to renounce to carry these mountains again self-propelled in the lagoon, to use the ingenuity for truly alternative solutions and to bring the passengers to the ships, out of the lagoon, using the existing waterways and therefore already practical. This is protecting employment: making an economic sector sustainable. Instead, politics, as well as lazy, is also orba and among the various projects presented - very different from each other - sees only those sponsored by friends and notables of party. Is it possible to carry out a project costing EUR 170 million and which Minister Lupi himself considers to be temporary? There is an increase in the medium sea and in the coming years the frequency and intensity of the high water will increase and the closures of the MOSE could reach 200 per year. What happens to the crocieristica if departures and arrivals will be blocked? Is it practical to excavate channels in contrast to the norm? Is it practical to lose years chatting and then pretend to simplify environmental protection procedures (VIA, VAS, AIA) in the heart of the most protected ecosystem in the world? They are unworkable projects, which will give rise to litigation until their filing. And time passes... From today the transits are quotad and forbidden above 96,000 tons. Did the government think of this decline in turnover and employment? Is it possible to carry out a project that would not be feasible before three years? Who proposes to keep the crocieristico port of call inside the lake is enemy of the occupation. The sustainable solutions out of the line of the MOSE, in the mouth of port of Lido, protect the occupation, indeed develop it of 12 percent, because the docks can be realized with docks anchored, quickly installable, and therefore reduces the period of waiting in which the crocieristico traffic would remain cut; because the plans do not conflict with the norm and they do not risk contentious; because the passengers can carry in mouth of port of Lido with panoramic motorships (there are three in disuse easily rearmable) that they can start from the current Marittima, that it would be valued like additional port also for the diportistica and the cruise of elite, based on ships of more compatible dimensions; the motorships can continue to transit in the basin of San Marco, than for the companies represents an attractive element of the offered package. Other routes can start (it is already planned) directly from the airport, perhaps integrating in the tourist packages the stop on islands today little valued. Then there are the environmental benefits, which are also economic: think about the impact on fishing and tourism in the event of an environmental accident with international resonance! If the ships remain outside, the risks of spilling inlaguna of fuels (highly toxic carburetors) are zero; the risks of collision with the banks of the historical center are zero; the risks of collision with the local nautical are zero; the noise pollution, electromagnetic and the smoke move from the inhabited. So what commitments do we ask the government to make? We ask to take into consideration all the proposed progettuali introduced and in particular the extralagunari ports of call in mouth of port of Lido; to formulate adequate environmental appraisals and of environmental impact on all the different progettuali alternatives; to guarantee that the comparison happens according to the principles that regulate the hydraulic and morphodynamic equilibrium of the lagoon, in compliance with the special legislation for Venice and its lagoon, because they are an integrated system; to compare the various studies, not on the level of deepening progettuale, but on the answers that they offer to the conditions placed from the environmental and socio-economic context: compatibility and environmental impact; rapidity of execution; flexibility, graduality and reversibility; impact on the economy of field in the transitory phase and continuity of the crocieristica offer; extent of the resources to employ (we do not forget that there are also the costs); economic and environmental sustainability of long period. We also call for the exclusion of the use of special procedures provided for by the objective law, ensuring, in any case, the correct application of Community and Italian legislation on environmental impact assessment and strategic environmental assessment. I stop here because I see that the microphone is flashing, not hiding that we are considering the possibility of a convergent text. So I'm gonna leave out the next parts and leave room for discussion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u80	I call Senator Casson to explain motion No 200.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u81	Mr President, I shall try to sum up the reasons for the motion and this debate. In relation to the theme of the great ships in Venice and the thoughtless passage in front of Piazza San Marco and the basin of Giudecca, there have been uprisings, not only at the territorial level (Venetian and Venetian), but also at the national and international level. Especially at international level the contrast of aesthetic, cultural and landscape nature with this passage of great ships was contested. I simply recall that this aspect is also protected by our Constitutional Charter in Article 9. Above all, those who challenged this passage of great ships referred to questions that had to do with the environment, with the protection of a delicate lagoon environment like the Venetian one and with the protection of public health, remembering how the parking of these great ships in the marine station of Venice corresponds to the pollution of 14,000 cars lit. The other fundamental aspect that must be remembered is the occupational one, with all the influences that it has on the Venetian territory and the Province. Faced with this problem, we arrived at the Committee of the Regions of 5 December 2013, which gave guidance on how to intervene. On the outcome of this committee, however, there were differences, even very strong, not only within the Government (between the Minister of the Environment, on the one hand, and the Minister of Infrastructure, on the other), but also at territorial level, with the port authority that opposed the authority of the mayor representative of all citizens. This is so true that, on the outcome of this committee and on the subsequent provision of the maritime authority-Capitary of port, four appeals have already been made to the regional administrative court. It is therefore clear that this is still a situation to be resolved and on the high seas (to remain on the terms of the sea), which must be addressed at the highest institutional level, which is the Senate. In this regard, I would like to underline and respond to those who, from the Venetian territory, said that politics should not solve this problem: here it is the problem, in particular of Venice, its lagoon, its economy and its environment, which will concern, not only next year, 2015, but the next decades (the next 30, 40, 50 years). That is why it is important to intervene on this issue. The Democratic Party tabled a series of questions on 18 November and 3 December, without getting any answers from Minister Lupi. On 23 December, at the last useful sitting before Christmas, we were forced, so to speak, to present this motion to the President of the Council of Ministers in order to settle the conflict within the Government and to give a perspective of solution. Let's say immediately that, in our view, the perspective of solution must be in the perspective of scientificity (and, therefore, of comparison) and maximum transparency, in order to avoid, as happened for other great works and great works (including the MOSE of Venice and the societies that worked around it), that we arrive at profiles of criminal order, with corruptions, scams and violations of tax and currency legislation. What are we proposing right now? We know that there are at least five projects on the table as an alternative between them and that they are in various stages of design: and we ask, precisely in the perspective of scientificity and transparency, that a comparison be made between all these projects. This is the device that we would like him to go to the Senate and be approved by a very large majority. We are not asked to favour one work rather than another; we are not partisans of any work. We call for a comprehensive comparison that takes into account all aspects: environmental, health and cultural aspects, but also infrastructure, employment, business and financial aspects. This can only be done by an environmental impact assessment and a strategic assessment. We submit this to the examination of the Chamber and ask that it be done, for the simple reason that, until this moment, the harbour Authority of Venice has absolutely barricaded itself, in preconceived way, on a single solution: that of the excavation of a new channel, solution that - I want to reiterate it - is rejected and denied by the special legislation for Venice that prohibits excavations of this kind. I think it must be said that the blockade on this solution is not at the moment respectful of the environmental problems of the lagoon, public health and not even of the problems of employment and business (as I will say shortly) and does not even take into account the criterion of time and financial costs compared to other perspectives. All the more so since further appeals have been lodged and announced with regard to this solution, with all that this entails in carrying out the work. Honestly, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to avoid new barbarians coming to Venice, someone who might wish to tarnish the Grand Canal. Instead we ask respect and we ask also that they do not rush to Venice, besides that new barbarians, enslaved to great crocieristiche societies. We do the interests of the community, we do the interests of the environment, we do the interests of the workers. We must not be politically shortsighted: we must look beyond this year and next year, while protecting employment. How do we want to do this? I mentioned this just now: there is a scientific approach that must be absolutely emphasized and reaffirmed, a transparent approach in compliance with current laws, including special legislation for Venice. This means applying the EIA and SEA to all scenarios, considering all the aspects I have mentioned and hearing all the categories: industrialists, craftsmen, traders, workers, environmentalists and all the actors involved, who have asked to be consulted, setting times and giving precise indications. To make understand how it is absolutely necessary to widen the scenario of deepening and verification, it would be enough to read a study that has been introduced from professor Tattara, professor of economy to the university Ca' Foscari of Venice, in which it is said like some among the other identified solutions, for example that to move the port and the marine station beyond, behind the MOSE, not only would guarantee the same occupation, but even more occupation, precisely because it would be expected the creation of two terminals, with all that it means regarding infrastructures, occupation, a different distribution of the logistics, the offices, the employees, with reuse of a part of Marittima destined also to other uses. Therefore, I believe that we must overcome this shortsightedness, in some ways this dullness, precisely in the name of scientific and economic progress. This must be emphasized and taken into account. With the prospect that we offer, with the device that we propose with our motions, on which we try to obtain the broadest possible consensus (as it seems possible to do), we ask that all this be submitted to EIA. There is a question of sustainable development from an economic, environmental, financial and employment point of view: an idea of sustainable development that can be realized in this case in Venice and in its lagoon. We respect these principles and criteria, and leave the new barbarians out of the lagoon. I also remember one last point to my fellow Senators of the League who hold - at least they say - so much to the territory. See that the Serenissima Republic of Venice, with regard to the waters of the lagoon, the canals and the respect of the banks, had established with its Council of the Ten in 1500, with a decree, that those who ruined the banks and the canals should suffer the following consequences: digging an eye, cutting hands, confiscating assets. We do not want to reach these levels, but it is essential for this environment to respect the extreme delicacy of this territory and to take account of financial and entrepreneurial needs. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u82	I call Senator Dalla Tor to explain motion 209.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I will not argue with the motion that I have tabled, because I believe that everyone has had the opportunity to read it. I believe that there is a point on Venice shared by all citizens and political forces, that is the opportunity that in the canal of Giudecca the ships, once and now commercial from granturismo, do not pass anymore. This, not only for a fact of safety or aesthetic: in fact in the channel of Giudecca the ships navigate inside a track (because this is the channel of Giudecca), therefore it is impossible that there are safety problems. But I believe that one should not divide on the barbarians who want to ruin Venice, because in these years there has been a will of the political forces in making of the choices on the portualità for much shared part. It has been decided, first of all with a financing of 100 million previewed in the law of stability of 2013, to move the commercial port and the oil port outside of the lagoon. We are already in the national EIA with the preliminary plan for the realization of the harbor of height, that it will move all the commercial traffics and of oil to the outside of the lagoon. I think this is an important fact. If the time is respected, this infrastructure, with an investment of about 2 billion, can be realized by 2017, with a financial project, with private investments and of course of the State and the European Union. The other choice made that shows that there are no barbarians in Venice is that in May 2014, in three months, will be completed the new port Motorways of the sea in locality Fusina, so all the ferries that today pass in front of San Marco, through the canal of Giudecca, will no longer pass you and pass through the canal of the Petroli. I repeat, about 200 ferries a year will no longer pass in front of San Marco. This will favor a commercial and harbour increase, through the ferries Ro-Ro and Ro-Pax. This novelty will begin from May 2014. Our previous legislators in 1973 - here was only my colleague Francesco Colucci - approved the first special law for Venice, with which it was decided to move oil traffic out of the lagoon. We get there now, of course, then the traffic of the big cruise ships was not expected, because then there wasn't. The evidence was built during this period. Please note that for Venice cruise ships represent an invaluable wealth. There is talk, between direct and indirect turnover, of an economic return of about 400 million euros per year, for about 1,8-1,9 million transits calculated by the University of Venice, which give a huge benefit to the city, which create employment for almost 5,000 employees between direct and indirect, and I believe that this is one of the potentialities. To give some data, in 2013 the city of Venice has recorded an increase of 5 percent of tourist presences, and I believe that this is a positive fact in the panorama of tourism in Italy. I specify that the Province of Venice is the first Province in Italy and one of the first in Europe for tourist presences (34 million), and by tourist presence is the person who sleeps one night in a hotel bed. I believe that this is our wealth, especially at this stage of difficulty. Today we believe we must, in order to respect the timing of the decree Clini-Passera, arrive quickly to characterize the solution for which the ships no longer pass through the canal of Giudecca, in front of the basin of San Marco. Keep in mind that the City of Venice in 2004 had proposed, as we propose, the excavation and reshaping of the Contort channel, because it considered that an alternative should be created to the current transit channel of Giudecca. We believe therefore that that chosen operated from the harbour Authority and from the Veneto Region, with deliberate emanated to December, that it asks that the plan of the twisted channel is judged through the insertion in the objective law and therefore through the assessment of environmental impact (VIA) national, is the wisest solution, that it creates the conditions for which Venice no longer sees this heavy traffic of the ships from cruise in the channel and arrives to the solution in the maintenance of the tourist presence. The Twisted channel would make the ships pass through the oil canal to get to the sea station anyway. I believe that this is the solution that has led everyone to discuss and present the various motions, such as Senator Casson and others, which I thank. I believe that if the Senate succeeds in finding a common position, as was done in 1973, with the special law for Venice, which saw the almost unanimous vote of all political forces, it would be a beautiful page that can be written both to this branch of Parliament and to the city itself. I hope that there will be conditions whereby, even in the comparison and evaluation of ideas, we will quickly arrive at ensuring that the decree Clini-Passera will be implemented, but it will fall soon, because the optimal solution has been found for our city. I believe that our motion responds to these guidelines, of course if there are conditions, through a common document, to follow this path, there is also the willingness of the Group of the New Right Centre to follow it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u84	I call Senator Piccoli to explain motion 210.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first-signed motion by Alberti Casellati aims to bring to the attention of the Government the need to act as a matter of urgency in order to follow up on a series of actions aimed at ensuring, while respecting the peculiarities and values of the area concerned, the creation of new access to the Venice maritime station. In dealing with the topic of the transit of the great ships in the lagoon of Venice and, especially, in the basin of San Marco it is indispensable to combine the various involved fields. If, in fact, the question of the environmental protection of a site unique to the world is of clear central importance and the protection of the city of Venice and its lagoon from a historical and cultural point of view must be studied, it is also necessary to address decisive issues related to the economy and employment. Currently the cruise port of Venice is the first of the so-called "terminal ports" of the entire Mediterranean, with 1,800,000 cruisers a year. The port occupies almost 4,500 employees and annually generates a turnover of little less than 500 million per year. These few elements show that this is a topic of absolute primary importance in the strategic choices of this country. A delay in the actions could cause very heavy damage which, in the motion, are reported and which I will briefly refer to, both in the immediate and in the medium to long term. The fact is well illustrated in the motion and I will retrace it in its salient passages. With the decree n. 79 of 2012, the decree Clini-Passera, has been dictated the general dispositions in order to limit or prohibit the transit of the great merchant ships in the sensitive areas, let alone some transitional dispositions, own in reason of which the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports has previewed the necessity to intervene on the route currently travelled in order to reach the port of Venice and Marittima, through the designation of an alternative way for the ships of tonnage superior to the 40.000 tons. In the course of the 2012 marine Authority has announced that the solution of transit along the path mouth of Malamocco-Contorta Sant'Angelo represents a progettuale hypothesis percorribile and indeed equipped with a level of deepening such to allow the start of the relative administrative investigation. Since 2011, maritime authority, magistrate to the waters and harbour authorities work to the identification of a solution that avoids the passage of the great ships in the basin of San Marco, through comparison of the possible alternatives, converging finally on the solution recalibrate of the Contorta-Sant'Angelo channel, which, opportunely realized, does not affect in meaningful way on the hydrodynamic one of thelagunae does not constitute no danger for the same. Indeed, as noted by authoritative scholars of the subject, the solution can contribute to the very maintenance of lagoon morphology. On the point has taken place an interministeriale reunion, last 5 November 2013, near the Presidency of the Council of Ministers: reunion in outcome to which the fundamental measures to take for the lagoon traffic have been indicated, that they have been subsequently defined with decree of the Harbour office. The aforementioned decree has defined the Contort channel as an alternative practicable way to those prohibited, for the ships of tonnage greater than 40,000 tons. Parallel to this decree, the Harbour office has issued the order n. 153 of 2013, which intervenes to reduce in a progressive way, but in fact immediate, the transits in the channel of San Marco and in the Canal of Giudecca, with limits already illustrated that I will not call for brevity. Contractions in terms of traffic can lead to the loss of about 2,500 jobs and almost 260 million euros in terms of overall induced, as has dramatically evidenced the document undersigned from the economic and social forces (Confcommercio, CNA, Confartigianato, Confesercenti, Coldiretti, CISL, UIL, CGIL, Chamber of Commerce and Confindustria of Venice). The document, among other things, fears the concrete risk that, in implementation of the prohibitions and limitations that can be activated shortly, the port of Venice can be excluded from the crocieristici routes, frustrating in this way years of excellent work and compromising a recognized leadership of international level. The motion in this regard intends to point out that these consequences represent only the most immediate effect of the application of the aforementioned forecasts, but that in reality the effects will be even heavier, with probable and progressive expulsion from the market because of the reduction of competitiveness of the harbour services. From 2015, therefore, Venice seriously risks to be excluded from the crocieristico circuit and to see to risk also its significance as destination port in the Mediterranean. One cannot but understand how this represents a catastrophe not only on a local scale, but also at a national level, since Venice would no longer be able to compete with the ports of the competing nations to ours, and this would also lead to a rethinking of the routes on the Mediterranean such - it is not to be excluded - to penalize also other Italian harbour stations, in particular along the Adriatic. That is why the motion is intended to urge the Government to continue on the path it has taken as quickly as possible. Not only is the solution of the Contorta-Sant'Angelo channel an alternative with technical and environmental characteristics shared by the main stakeholders, but it requires to be included urgently among the works of strategic interest referred to in Law No. 443 of 2001 (objective law). This is not in order to reduce the evaluative passages, but indeed for the exact opposite and that is precisely to allow the landing in rapid times to an advanced design phase and, therefore, almost executive and operational, able to ponder with completeness the aspects in question, thus guaranteeing the protection and the ecological and environmental conservation of the Venetian lagoon and its balance with the employment and economic needs on medium and large scale. In order for this balance to be made tangible, action must be taken on two fronts. First, and as mentioned above, it is necessary to accelerate with conviction towards the identification and realization of the alternative channel to that currently travelled and, therefore, to make national priority the Contorta-Sant'Angelo hypothesis. On the point the Veneto Region has expressed itself also with resolution of own Regional Junta n. 2259 of last 10 December, demanding the insertion of the intervention called "adjustment via water of access to the marine station of Venice and requalification of the areas adjacent to the Contorta channel-Sant'Angelo" in the program of strategic infrastructures. Second, it is equally important to guarantee the survival - because of this really it is - of the Venetian harbour economy through governmental participations that prolong the application of the bans previewed for the year in course and for next 2015, as requested from last in the appeal of the associations already remembered. Faced with a solution identified and shared, it is now imperative to proceed with care to its implementation, precisely in order to achieve with equal speed to the exclusion of the basin of San Marco from the route of the great ships. Initiatives of opposite sign, perhaps in contrast to the provisions of the Harbour office, are not at all resolving problems faced and, on the contrary, generate a stalemate that is no longer tolerable. To the Government the motion requires, in conclusion, not to frustrate the efforts so far made that they have led the port of Venice to guarantee the leadership of the Mediterranean and have consequently allowed a sensitive economic-social valorization of the lagoon. Efforts that, at the same time, have allowed to address in a decisive way the issue of the protection of the Venetian lagoon itself, arriving to outline a proposal for intervention that cannot in any way now be stopped as a result of improbable rethinks. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u86	Colleagues, we address a greeting to the students and students of the Istituto tecnico commerciale - Piovene in Vicenza who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u87	Colleagues, let's resume our work. I call Senator Dalla Zuanna to explain motion 212.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u88	Madam President, I will not repeat with regard to the motion for a resolution issues that have already been addressed by my fellow Members. On the other hand, I would like to stress the aspects which this motion, which is the last one that has been tabled, seeks to add in order to enrich the debate and the arguments. Over the last few decades, the Venice lagoon is experiencing a worrying erosion process, due to a loss of sediments greater than those released by watercourses. The central lagoon, the one most affected by the phenomenon, sees the average depth of its seabed going from just 49 cm in 1901, to 60 cm in 1932 to double 30 years later and reach 146 cm in 2003. The scholars agree to identify the greater responsibility of this process in the excavation of deep channels, in particular the so-called oil canal, and the continuous passage of the great ships, which make surface surface surface sediments that are then dragged out of the lagoon by tidal currents. In full compliance with the schedule, the MOSE mobile dam system will be ready in 2016, and will be able to protect Venice and its lagoon from high waters. It will have to decide at which height of high tide to close the mouths of port; in any case, the activation of the mobile dams will place ulterior limits to the access of the ships to the lagoon of Venice, limitations that will be so much greater how often it will be decided to raise the bulkheads. The last point relates to the fact that, as unfortunately we are seeing also in these days and in recent years, vast agricultural, industrial and residential territories of Padua, Venetian and Vicenza have been affected by disastrous alluvial events, also due to the insufficient disposal of the waters of the basins of Brenta and Bacchiglione. Having said this, I remember in my turn that the normative cornerstone for what we are saying is the decree Clini-Passera, of 2 March 2012, that it has placed the prohibition of transit in the Channel of San Marco and in the Channel of the Giudecca of the ships used for transport of goods and passengers beyond 40,000 tons of gross tonnage and that such prohibition is applied starting from the availability of routes of practicable alternatives to those prohibited, as identified from the marine Authority with own provision. I point out that the decree is not pronounced on the fact that the routes of practicable alternatives lead to the docking of great ships from cruise to the current Marine station or to an alternative port. The legislation then went on and we must say, however, that unfortunately so far, in this year and a half that followed the decree Clini-Passera, the only option that has been seriously studied and examined is the one identified in the Wrong Channel, which has been deepened. Those alternatives, which are of various kinds, have not been adequately considered. All this, it must be said, actually contrasts with the decree Clini-Passera, where the marine Authority was indicated as the one delegated to indicate the best alternative solution, through the appropriate comparative studies. In addition, two other aspects must also be mentioned very quickly. First of all, as my colleague Dalla Tor has already said, is in phase of planning and approval near the CIPE the plan of the terminal of height, that it should be able to avoid the inlaguna of the great ships portacontainer, let alone to upgrade in fundamental way the portualità of the Alto Adriatico. Second, with reference to the talk of erosion, a study commissioned by the Veneto Region has recently confirmed the opportunity and feasibility of a draining channel on the path of the old project of Padua-Venice hydrovia, already largely expropriated for hydraulic purposes and largely realized, capable of conveying part of the Brenta water into the lagoon, starting from Vigonovo, south-east of Padua. This channel would have many advantages, including the protection of the territory from the Brenta floods and - something that interests in this case - to counter the erosive phenomena that are affecting part of the Venice lagoon, in particular the central lagoon. This channel, if it will be carried forward the plan of the hydrovia, of course it will be able to become integral part of the offshore port of the Upper Adriatic. Having said this, in our motion we ask the Government to accelerate the realization of the offshore port; to favor the planning and the realization of the scolmatore channel; to favor in certain times - and, in every case, within the month of June 2014 - the collection of documentation fully comparable between various possible solutions, in order to maintain to Venice a competitive crocieristico terminal to international level, just seriously evaluating in comparative way the various possible solutions; to carry out the choice after that the marine Authority, with own provision, will have indicated the alternative solution, and in every case, however, within the month of July 2014. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u89	Senator Dalla Zuanna, forgive me for interrupting, but I have to ask those in this House to lower their voices, because it is really hard to continue the work with this buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u90	We also call for a re-evaluation of the timetable for the years to come established in the interministerial agreement of 5 November, in the light of the results of these studies. Finally we ask to put into effect all the necessary actions in order to give rapid implementation to the alternative choice to the Channel of the Giudecca for the passage of the great ships, so that Venice can continue to be a crocieristico terminal of first level. I conclude with the hope that you will succeed to arrive to a solution the most agreed possible in order to put together development, crocieristica, but especially - if I can say it - the safeguard of an inestimable good like Venice and its lagoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u91	I declare the debate open. She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u92	Madam President, I hope that this debate will be a small step forward in the search for good and shared solutions. Venice and its lagoon represent one of the few examples to the world of perfect union between human creative genius and natural environment: it is one of the few places in the world where the work of man has exalted the beauty of the landscape, creating a perfect synthesis between human architecture and natural environment. This makes Venice a masterpiece of exceptional universal value, whose specialty has also been recognized by UNESCO, which has included it on the list of the World Heritage of humanity: therefore, the Italian State has the duty to protect it for the benefit of future generations not only Italian. These very simple considerations should already induce any Government of common sense and of any political color to work to safeguard Venice and its lagoon in any way. It would suffice to operate with the balance and diligence of a good family father. The data speak clear: the regional Agency for the prevention and environmental protection of the Veneto has documented that the crocieristico traffic is to Venice the greater producer of atmospheric pollution: it makes to shudder to think that the production of fine dusts is practically equal to that produced from the automobile traffic of Mestre and that every ship pollutes like 14.000 old automobiles, even when it is to the mooring. But even more serious, colleagues, is the estimate made by the Venetian Oncology Institute, which reports that between Venice and Mestre there is statistically a significant excess of cases of lung cancer compared to the rest of Italy. Already for years, associations of citizens and local administrations ask loudly for the identification of alternative solutions to the passage of the great ships from the historical center of the city and, despite the decree ministerial of 2012, still nothing concrete has been made, and indeed, on the furrow of the worst Italian politics of the postponement, it has continued to extend the permit of transit to the great ships waiting for a solution. Maybe a solution that falls miraculously from heaven, perhaps waiting for a fatal event that makes no longer deferable the taking of a decision and the assumption of responsibility. The choice not to do or to do wrong and in haste, to which this Government and the precedents have now accustomed us, is probably based on the fear of seeing affected the flow of tourism, but it is obviously shortsighted and irrational, because it does not take into account the reason why millions of people from all over the world each year decide to visit Venice and the banal difference between fungible and infungable goods, so paradoxically precisely the politics of postponement or of doing quickly and badly would end up being the cause that more than any other could damage irremediably and forever one of the main sources of wealth of all our country. What would happen if, due to a failure or a human error, what happened to Giglio with the shipwreck of Costa Concordia were repeated in Venice? Is any of you able to calculate or estimate the environmental and economic damage that a tragedy similar to that of the Costa Concordia could cause to the ecosystem of Venice? Well, ladies and gentlemen, do not even try to estimate them, because the damage would be incalculable, in the literal sense of the term. There would be so much more to say, and so much data is specified in the motion. All we have to do is ask you for a whisper of common sense and invite you to read the motion carefully, since during its illustration the House was empty, just as it is now in the debate. But you have to read it carefully, seriously, before you give your vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u93	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens, students, who are more numerous in this House today than we are. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , citizens who are watching us through the Senate channel, I speak in the debate on the motions before us bringing to this House a direct, personal experience of this issue. In fact, back in 2011, I witnessed the passage of a large ship exactly along the Venetian canal. This event was interesting. It took place in the late afternoon; I had just left the Venice Biennale with other people and the surprise was enormous when suddenly, overhanging, we saw a part of the city move. We could not decode the fact that from a distance the lights we saw moving slowly were not those of a city, but those of a city in a city, bigger than the lights of St. Mark's Square. This left us very impressed: we had had a direct comparison between the dimension of Venetian history and architecture and a mobile architecture that was moving into the lagoon. It is obvious that we are talking about an out-of-scale problem; we are talking - and I address the Secretary-General of the Mediterranean, Mr Girlanda - about yet another non-man-made work, such as the famous Orte-Mestre motorway, of yet another attack on the territory. In saying these words I refer in particular to a text of political ecology, now sacred, by Ernst Schumacher, dating back to 1973, in which the author prophesied even "small" is beautiful: an economy with human dimensions. But I come back to the point. It is precisely because of the issues raised on this issue that the Environment Commission carried out a survey in Venice, where hearings were held from which we have learned a lot. We learned first of all that that of the passage of the great ships is not a problem of Venice, but of the entire Venetian lagoon-water basin. And this is a fundamental aspect, supported by the fact that a dedicated authority, namely the Magistrate to the waters of Venice, was placed at the garrison of the Venetian basin, to testify that there is an overall problem in that area. From the many hearings conducted on the spot we have also learned that the basin, an entity to be considered unique, also suffers from the enormous influence of all the interventions carried out in the hinterland, whose effects reach the lagoon area through the tributaries of the Po. We must also consider that another megaproject has been launched for the area, the infamous MOSE, which is now being completed. We have still learned that always in the lagoon insists the area of Porto Marghera, in the process of redevelopment, whose coastline has heavy environmental implications. With these data I intend to make a precise statement: any intervention we are going to do in that area must be global, comprehensive throughout the lagoon. It cannot be considered in its own right. This is all the more reason for the fact that the assessments made on the submitted projects, which must be considered in their entirety, must not only consider economic and logistical aspects, but must of course involve environmental aspects. The other complaint that we can make is that there are no exceptions to the applicable legislation; indeed, even more so, given the peculiarity of the lagoon itself and of the whole area, there should be a worsening of the restrictions and prescriptions, precisely to protect an area that is unique in the world, and it is certainly not us who discover it. I conclude by saying that we regret the lack of evaluation of alternative proposals; for example, we welcomed those proposals which saw extra-lagunary solutions, so outside the ecosystem that we find around the lagoon. Another of the things that we have learned in the hearings, which unfortunately is not taken into account, is that there are even studies on an entry and exit balance of the loam that we find suspended in the lagoon, which also participates in the formation of that ecosystem, which is not absolutely microscopic but is indeed enormous, because it is spread throughout the lagoon. So the environmental implications are enormous; the Contort channel we already know very well that it will have to be maintained several times, and it is located exactly near the coast of Marghera port. I therefore reiterate the need for an overall environmental assessment of the entire ecosystem of the lagoon and taking into account the sustainability of the actions taken. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u95	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u96	Madam President, the sharing of many points of view and arguments raised by my fellow Members in the motions, which are in addition to what I myself have signed up to, makes it possible to deal with this issue in a very brief way. The interests are obviously many and are legitimate, positive, even in the most general interest of the country. Therefore, from this point of view, the motion that we have undersigned, but I also believe the understanding of the colleagues who have undersigned other motions, is aimed not to represent a brake to the tourist and commercial activities, as to try to avoid those potential and real dangers that are present in the access of ships of so great size and difficult maneuverability in the prospiciente area Venice and that certainly, while representing an evocative impact at least for those who guard Venice from the height of these ships, represents also a danger that can manifest in concrete way at the moment in which incidental factors intervene and not adequately evaluated. From this point of view, the experience of the demolition of the control tower in the port of Genoa and also the dramatic story of the so-called bow to the Island of Giglio, with the tragic conclusion of a very violent impact that has led to the sinking of the ship Concordia, with the victims that we know, represent issues that cannot be underestimated and that must be faced in absolute respect of the principles of navigation, but also of the more in-depth and adequate intents of limitation of navigation, because the presence of ships of so great dimension in proximity of dwellings or obstacles, albeit previewed, can be an element of danger. The presence of these ships is also an element of architectural and environmental pollution for a city like Venice, so beautiful and so great in its majesty. We believe that action should be taken to protect the safety of those present in the area, the architectural profile of the city and the environment, including the marine one, which in the face of an accident that is not properly assessed could be seriously damaged. In this sense, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the willingness of all the first signatories of the various motions to converge on a single unitary document, without prejudice to the principles which I recalled, namely the safety of the environment, the safety of citizens and the safety of tourists who access our natural, architectural and cultural beauties. Access to the city must be facilitated, and accessibility understood not only from a panoramic point of view, but in a more comprehensive sense (some proposals in this respect have been highlighted by colleagues who have spoken before me), ensuring that there is not a concentration of economic activity only in certain areas. The city of Venice must be accessible from many points of view. The city of Venice is not only an urban building system, but also a beauty of the sea, islands and canals. The Government is therefore required to take action, not of obstructionism, but of great sensitivity and support for a tourism and economic development activity compatible with the territory on which it is going to impact. [[Applause from Senator Longo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u97	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u98	Madam President, at the time when the subject of the transit of large cruise ships to Venice is being discussed, some phenomena must be considered: the compatibility of the projects and their environmental impact; the speed of execution of the works for the best transport and logistics solution; the impact on the sector economy, the impact on the territory, the economic size of the resources to be devoted to a project whose realization does not grant appeals. The works planned to date are incompatible, both with the environmental and morphological characteristics of the Venice lagoon and with the entire legislative system to safeguard the lagoon. When we talk about the passage of great ships from cruise to Venice it is useful to bring back for the not Venetian numbers that testify better than any other element the drama of the moment. Today the cruise ships dock in Marittima, that is in the historical center, and enter and exit from the mouth of port of Lido. This means that at each dock they pass twice in the basin of San Marco, in the canal of Giudecca, in the historical heart of Venice, a few meters from the Doge's Palace. In recent years passengers have increased by 439 percent and the number of berths of ships has increased from 206 in 1997 to 655 in 2011. Good for tourism, but at what price? On June 2, 2012, in Marittima came the Divine ship, the largest ship ever entered the lagoon: 333 meters long for 139,000 tons of tonnage. To imagine what that means, just remember that the Titanic had a tonnage of 46,000 tons, exactly a third smaller. Imagine now the pollution that the passage of this ship entails; imagine the effect on the shores, the movement of the sandy material in depth; imagine the sacrifice that the natural environment must pay for tourists who want to photograph from above the wonderful St Mark's Square. The Regional Agency for the prevention and environmental protection of the Veneto has demonstrated, through detailed researches, that the crocieristico traffic to Venice is producer of an immense atmospheric pollution: it is thought that the production of fine dusts is practically equal to that produced from the automobile traffic of Mestre; a single ship, even when it is moored, pollutes like 14.000 cars stopped in the traffic. The hydrodynamic effects caused by the passage of the ships on a fragile and delicate lagoon balance, the risks to the health deriving from the crocieristico traffic are subject of study also from the European Union and if you do not resort to the reparations there will be, without possibility of appeal, the start of the procedure of infringement for excessive pollution from sulfur and fine dusts. The passage of the ships and the development of the tourism must not be seen in the perspective of the current advantage, but of the advantage in the medium and long term, otherwise we will risk to have today the tourism and tomorrow the desertification of a territory abandoned from the tourists and the companies of field. Senator Dalla Tor reported a few minutes ago that the major traffic will be moved to the oil channel, but did not report the negative impact. The proposal to offer an alternative route to cruise ships by letting them enter inlagunada Malamocco, with a short journey on the oil canal and a detour on the twisted canal, involves new excavations on a track of well 5 kilometers, wide 140 meters, deep 10 meters and the excavation of 7 million cubic meters of sediment. Finally, using this new channel, the ships would always arrive at Marittima, that is to say in the city center. It is for this reason that we need to analyze the problem and therefore I support the motion that previews to study and to consider all the alternatives in order to resolve the problem of the passage of the great ships to Venice. Alternative proposals exist, they come from below, from spontaneous movements of the citizens of that territory and not from industrial and financial powers that have seen Venice only for a tourist visit. I ask you to give the right attention to the extra-lagunare project, which plans to build a sea comb with mobile berths outside the lagoon, in front of the Lido, where the bulkheads of the MOSE rise, and to dock at that point the big ships. Passengers will reach the city centre through smaller boats. It is a solution that - needless to say - would give a greater breath to the economy of the territory. Compared to the excavation of the lagoon backdrops, the projects with extra-lagunary port of call are, moreover, compatible with the criteria established by the special laws of Venice, in compliance with the conditions of graduality, experimentation and reversibility. The shameful threat that from the 2015 Venice can end up out of the crocieristici itineraries does not have to be received: Venice is unique and will always be an attractive source for all the inhabitants of the planet. The photo of the bell tower of San Marco from the top of a cruise ship is not worth the destruction of an entire lagoon basin, considered by UNESCO World Heritage Site. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u99	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u100	Madam President, I will not speak, because I would repeat what I said at the time of the presentation of motion 209 at my first signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u101	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u102	Madam President, in an essay published in September 2013 Nuccio Ordine wrote in the introduction: They exist to know the end in themselves that - precisely because of their gratuitous and disinterested nature, far from any practical and commercial bond - they can play a fundamental role in the cultivation of the spirit and in the civil and cultural growth of humanity. Within this context, I consider everything that helps us to become better useful. And it goes on: But the logic of profit undermines those institutions (...) and those disciplines (...) whose value should coincide with knowledge itself, regardless of the ability to produce immediate gains or practical benefits. Of course - he continues - museums or archaeological sites can very often be a source of extraordinary revenue, but their existence, contrary to what some would like us to believe, cannot be subordinate to the success of the collections. The life of a museum or an archaeological excavation - I or Venice add - is like that of an archive or a library, it is a treasure that the community must jealously preserve at all costs. That is why it is not true that, in times of economic crisis, everything is allowed. If the words of Nuccio Ordine are true, then I strongly ask the Government, and first my colleagues, to find a meeting point on a shared text that commits the Government to take all appropriate measures to ensure that this precious heritage, constituted by Venice and its entire lagoon, does not remain a memory in a canvas of Canaletto. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u103	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u104	Madam President, I would like to begin by saying that the motion we are debating seems to me to be a healthy realism, a condition which should be relevant to the assessments of those administrations or bodies which are called upon to make choices that concern the community. Venice has always preserved itself by defending its uniqueness. It is an activity that must be continued and that today - it seems quite evident to me - entails the indispensable need for a safeguard extended to the various aspects of the socio-economic life of the city: from the immediately physical one (the high waters which try to oppose a great and extraordinary work like the MOSE), to those of a more immaterial nature, if we want, but equally vital for a city, such as the protection of its historical, cultural and landscape heritage. We are talking about a unique city in the world, with a specificity that is not found anywhere else in the world. A defence - however - which, of course, by putting aside the physical one, I do not think can be undertaken by turning the look backwards, that is, by putting the only need for conservation at the centre of the choices. In other words, Venice would not be the one we know today if it had defended itself and its history without relating and looking to the future, without dealing with the prospect of a possible development for what Venice is today and for what Venice will be. Today we are in a similar situation. We cannot think or consider the future of Venice and its uniqueness without taking into account the historical, economic and social conditions in which we are today. These constitute for us a strong and non-negotiable bond. Therefore, we cannot forget that today's Venice also means economic activity (it is always meant, however). It is the true engine of what Venice has become and which we know: that economic development which the Venetians first looked at and which they also taught other peoples. The data testify to the close union between culture and economy, which characterizes today's Venice. Last year more than 4 million tourists wanted to see it, to be there and to know it, with more than 85 percent of foreign arrivals and overnight stays, as evidenced by the study of the local tourist promotion company. This says a lot about how Venice is one of the world's capitals, for the world and belongs to the world. A continuous flow of tourists who arrive to Venice substantially by ship and that in the period 1997-2012, for example, has allowed the passenger port to conquer that position of terminus in the Mediterranean, going from about 300,000 to beyond 1,800,000 units in a few years. Which means - I would like to remind it also to myself - that in those years Venice has managed to hijack on it beyond a million and a half of crocieristi, than a strong international competition could have directed towards Malta or other important cities: imposing numbers that mean investments and occupation and that - as remembered in the motion - are attested respective in beyond 430 million euros and beyond 4,200 employed. Of course, the numbers aren't everything, the economy isn't everything, but it's not even irrelevant. Well, that realism which I referred to at the beginning of my speech requires that these numbers should not be forgotten. Numbers that are the expression of a sector that constitutes a formidable lever of growth and development for our economy, and not only for that of Venice. Numbers that take on greater importance in the light of the difficult and protracted negative situation that our country is facing, also on the front of tourism. On the other hand, it would be difficult to undertake initiatives that have their own polar star in a single number, that are aimed solely at increasing attendance in an objectively particular and delicate urban context. The words that undersecretary Borletti Buitoni expressed after the meeting of Palazzo Chigi, in which the closure of the Giudecca channel and the other initiatives mentioned in the motion were decided, are certainly acceptable. I would remind you that the Secretary recalled the need for a new model of tourism that is compatible with our delicate cultural heritage (...) integrated and tailored to the needs and characteristics of our territory. And God knows how much that territory needs this particular attention. Personally, I have never expressed a biased view against the idea that economic growth and development have to deal with sustainability, theirs and the fragile balance of the city. And in the question that we are facing, I repeat this concept, but not for the reasons that are a little romantic, a little pastist, a little moralistic that I often read in the press in support of the decisions of Palazzo Chigi, but rather for a more pragmatic issue: the strength of numbers, the strength of the economy, the drive of the economy to culture. It is the close union between culture and economy that characterizes the life of Venice, which would make us consider harmful a decision based solely on numbers, whose uncontrolled increase would risk destroying the environmental and cultural conditions on which they are based. It is for these reasons that I consider reasonable the commitments set out in the motion that I believe the Government can make, in the overall agreement of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u105	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u106	Madam President, I have listened with interest to the communications that have been made by all my colleagues in the various groups and I have understood that each of them is moved at the same time by an extraordinary desire - I believe for those who know the most understandable city - on the one hand to save Venice, on the other to consider how this legislature can put in place a truly preparatory action to prevent and avoid even the thought and the possibility, however remote, of damaging this heritage - you have all said, let me say it again - extraordinary and unique in the world. It is a city not unlike any other, even unlikely in its architecture, in its urban construction, in the thought that built it and built it, to the point that, when we talk about Venice, in every place in the world, whether it is at the UN or at the European Union, there is a desire to think that this is the undiscovered nerve of the world. It is the reality in which (I remember a fairly recent episode) there was a solidarity contest to contribute to the reconstruction of the theatre La Fenice, destroyed by a fire. There is the idea that Venice belongs to the whole world. This must finally influence the actions of this Parliament and this Senate, starting tonight, after the will initially expressed by ministers Clini and Passera in the government of 2012, later supported (and supported even by dates and mechanisms) in the meeting that took place on November 5, 2013, thanks to the will of ministers Orlando and Lupi. They intended to start a path aimed at ensuring and protecting that this extraordinary and unique reality in the world cannot be by anyone and for no reason affected by the ignavian and irresponsibility of men and women of our time. With the motion that we have signed, at the first signature of Senator Casson, (as was done with other motions illustrated with the speeches that we have heard) we wanted to open a window to emphasize that we all agree that this is a city that cannot suffer any risk like what is perpetrated every day, in fact, because there is a staircase that does not return. The great ships that transit to Venice once were modest regarding the context, under the 40.000 tons, but then they have arrived to 80-90.000 tons. Well, the design that is foreshadowed from 1 November 2014, thanks to the initiative of minister Orlando, is that according to which the ships should reach the maximum 96.000 tons. On the one hand, as it has been correctly emphasized, there is a huge increase of the international crocieristica, and well come because, besides a value that I consider cultural, there is an occupational value for the induced one that derives from it. But on the other hand it cannot stand in the scale of values to see ships that reach and exceed 120-130.000 tons, if this can result not only in a damage to the long understood as aquifer basin, of which we have perhaps talked relatively little, but even in a damage to an irreproducible and unique urban context in the world. From this we started to say that we must intervene. We must make in way - this is the extraordinary bet - to reconcile the possibility that Venice continues to be indicated as a destination in the international cruise and as a destination of travel (because objectively I believe that it is indispensable to consider it as such), safeguarding it however within its delicate and already today strongly discussed and questionable balance from the point of view of water, environmental and other. As an environmental commission we held many hearings in Venice to listen to all those who had something to say about employment, tourism, port activity as well as the existing difficulties, as for example an engineer of the Institute of Hydraulics of the University of Padua, who explained to us what are the tensions already existing within the lagoon of Venice. We have drawn conclusions from all this. We believe that it is possible and necessary to intervene in order to find an alternative way to that of the channel of Giudecca, currently used for routes of this nature. We know that from November 2014 there will be the limitation of the tonnage, and the ferries that have a different function of journey regarding the great ships from cruise will no longer be able to dock to the usual port, but they will have to choose another path in order to enter Venice. We know that there will be a significant reduction in traffic and I believe that this has been properly and balancedly accepted by everyone. As Senator Bonfrisco has just mentioned, we are talking about more than 4,000 workers and we are all more concerned today than ever about maintaining employment. We must therefore find a way of reconciling this with the need to intervene on a subject not even for a moment thinking that we can make a different choice without making it transparent and participatory. I believe that this is today indifferent and mandatory, which means that we must bring home a result that sees at the same time the beginning, the start of an active and operational path, functional to obtain the result and at the same time that this result is understood not only by the residents of Venice, but by the whole planet Earth, which in Venice looks with that special eye that made President Obama and Merkel say certain things and that it has made incredibly reflect and ask for immediate and possibly effective solutions to a problem of the nature of what has been placed. I therefore very much welcome the fact that we have spoken, although unfortunately the time is now too late this evening, but tomorrow we will conclude the examination of motions with explanations of vote. I really hope that there will be a unanimous vote on a motion that we are trying to construct as a summation of the various motions and wills, making clear points starting from the rapidity in the area of transparency. It is a good bet for politics, Madam President, to act in the transparency that must be there, because if we succeed others in Europe we do not understand why we do not have to succeed, since we have nothing to hide. At the same time, we must put in place actions that are clear from the point of view of how the choices we have to make are made, which are effective, because they will achieve the objective we have set ourselves. At the same time, they will succeed very quickly, as is normally understood to be due to a fact of this nature. It will therefore undertake a path participated, but fast, in order to reach the objective to save Venice and at the same time the occupation, especially port, that the tourist Venice is able to give, and above all to make sure that the visits certainly welcome of all those who love it continue, but that they want to arrive through the sea. [[Applause from Senators Di Biagio and Casson.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u109	CASSON (PD). Madam President, I would just like to say that I am going to place the G1 agenda, which should, although of course I do not have ownership of the other motions, replace all the other motions. Eventually tomorrow morning the first signatories of the other motions will confirm this. A very broad agreement has been reached, I believe that there are almost all the parliamentary groups and forces present in the Senate, obviously starting from that of the Democratic Party: the Groups of the 5 Star Movement, of Civic Choice, of the New Right Center, the Socialists, the Group For the Autonomouss, SEL and the Groups Forza Italia and Forza Italia and For Italy. So it's almost all the groups. As per the Rules of Procedure, the text of this agenda, which tends to commit the Government to first ensure that the solutions of the various public and private projects are first and simultaneously compared and considered in the context of environmental assessment, regardless of the state of progress of the project, with the normal modalities provided for in the EIA and VAS legislation, appropriately enhanced, as we have also said in the course of the debate, and to place at the centre of this comparative assessment the conformity of the scenarios envisaged to certain conditions that are indicated and which refer to the environment, the execution, the economy, the employment. The design conditions are detailed in a very specific way. The government also undertakes to start comparative assessments of the solutions submitted within 30 days and to conclude them within three months, taking into account the need to guarantee employment levels; then the outcome, once the choice on the solution has been made, with the modalities, the guarantees and the times that I have indicated, undertakes the government to carry out the work as soon as possible, using the current legislation. That is the content of the agenda that we are submitting to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u110	The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-184.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 6 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m.
