ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1224, 1256, 1304 and 1305, in the unified text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u5	Mr President, we all - or, at least, I would hope, all of us - wish that there was no need for this debate today, for gender equality to be a cultural fact that is obvious and consolidated, that what is now the rule is the exception... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u6	Colleagues, can we settle down? Go on, Senator Granaiola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u7	GRANAIOLA (PD). We would like to say that what is the rule in reality today is the exception, but unfortunately it is not. The female imbalance in political representation, corporate leadership, employment, individual growth opportunities, as well as in couples or family roles, is unfortunately still the rule. In the third millennium, in Europe, in Italy, an article of law to guarantee, promote or only support a better balance in the representativeness of the sexes at political level, as well as in the economic or working level, represents in itself a defeat, the taking of a delay. We all (at least in words) wish that substantial representative equality was the rule, it was the result of a historical cultural conquest, but unfortunately we know that this is not the case. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Despite progress on gender equality achieved by European legislation over the last 40 years, the gender gap remains large, particularly with regard to careers and working conditions. The report of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, published on 24 October 2013, still highlights this objective fact. A figure that is uncomfortable if referred to Italy. Look, I've talked about European legislation to protect an acceptable gender balance, so this is an issue that, although in a diversified and almost always better situation than that of our country, concerns the whole of Europe... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I refuse to speak under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u8	Colleagues, if you keep this up, I'll suspend the session! GRANAIOLA (PD). Women are still under-represented in the policy of the Member States of the European Union. The situation is, as I said before, diversified from country to country, but everywhere there is a female presence in political or administrative institutions not proportional to the female population. This is true both in countries that are more attentive to gender equality issues and in those, and among them Italy, which have only recently made some progress in this regard. As far as the upper rooms are concerned, women are on average present at European level with 25%, in the lower rooms the European average falls to 19.3% and only in 5 countries a woman presides over such assemblies. Therefore, at the beginning of the third millennium in Europe, in the very civilised West, in the institutional fora, the principle of equal representation was formally accepted with broad consensus, but then, in practice, has not yet found a concrete objective response
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u9	[[Brusio]] It is also clear from the confusion in this House why. [[Applause from Senator Padua.]] The women candidates, since they express the substance of the issue, are still few and generally also disadvantaged, because the real control of the complex mechanisms of consent is still everything (or almost) in the hands of men. Even where some progress has been made and therefore, in addition to possible legislative safeguards, the gender alternation on the lists is laudably supported, these almost always begin with a male candidate thus favouring its gender representation. Moreover, the allocation and distribution of electoral colleges is not always balanced. Women, especially at local level, rarely occupy key positions within the parties, trade unions and associations and economic organisations and more generally of elected representative bodies. The reality is that the ideas of equality in Europe are rooted in the last century and are therefore still largely thought of and conceived for men. It is not surprising, therefore, that today, among the many initiatives aimed at promoting equal opportunities for men and women, measures to strengthen the role of women in representative political institutions have not been taken into account. It is not surprising, therefore, if, when these issues are addressed, the debate becomes as fiery as, sometimes, unnecessarily ideological and formal and therefore poorly influential. [[Brusio. References by the President]] , a debate that risks being old, power and still everything to the male. Yet we all know by now, but it is also demonstrated by top economists, that the economic and - above all - social development of the European Union and the world cannot ignore the role of women in economic, social, cultural, artistic, working and political life; the quality and quantity of women's participation in community management and therefore the quantity and quality of political representation. More generally, today the protection of civil and human rights, in Italy as well as in Europe and in the world, cannot be without the protection of women's rights. I am thinking of women in the world who are fighting for peace, for work, for the protection of the environment. I am thinking of women in the family, women who work, women caregivers, women who create, who make art, culture, research and science, and I am also thinking of women who still suffer from stalking and die or suffer at home, in the places of the cities or at work because of specific gender violence. Today in Italy there is still a culture that, since the beginning of the process of feminization of the labour market, is still struggling to recognize the changed role of women in the family and society and that is still far from guaranteeing effective substance to the principle of equal opportunities and equal rights. It is an atavistic cultural delay, an economic handicap, a political short-sightedness, of course; but an Italy that is struggling to recognize the changed social and economic role of women is no wonder that it then opposes to recognize, contain and limit its political role as well; above all it is no wonder that it struggles to overcome the crisis that has gripped us for years. Italy is among the taillights in Europe on the issue of women and - by chance - it is also one of the countries that has the greatest difficulty to renew itself in order to get out of the crisis. The question is therefore historical, sociological and cultural even before politics. It is regrettable that we are here today to discuss these issues on such fiercely opposed, ideologicalized fronts and, therefore, substantially inadequate to deal with the relevance of the issue under discussion. I understand that today, once again, women and their role in the different articulations of national life are not an end but an instrument; part of a confrontation that essentially, as it is managed, does not concern them only marginally. Nothing new: long discussions about the maximum systems; change everything to change nothing. I am convinced that women, to the diversity of the dominant culture, do not argue to divide and contrast; to ideologicalize or to freeze differences. On the contrary: women who look to the future of this country want and can unite, claim spaces and forms of representation not to retrace the well-known streets of the old, conservative and irreconcilable politics, but to experiment new ways, new solutions and new methods. Women, while claiming and leading a battle for their right to political, economic, cultural and social representation, also know how to give up in order to rebuild. Women know, for example, that today this battle and this debate is likely to be perceived by citizens, by those who have a thousand daily problems, as a rearguard battle. It is an incomprehensible discussion for a country that for years has been waiting for something to move, that we see some hints of concrete novelty in support of an ever more feeble hope of renewal. The transversal battle of the Members of the House and that which we are conducting today in the Senate cannot be closed with a defeat: it would be a heavy and difficult vulnus stitching that would open between women and institutions. It is not a matter of recognizing the need to promote women in the institutions (this has already happened, especially thanks to the choice of the Democratic Party which has set in its own principles, in the statutes, in the regulations the rules for the political participation of women); it is a new and more important step forward, recognizing that without positive actions women struggle immensely more than men in being promoted. It is recognised that the State has a duty to put in place all the necessary measures to overcome one of the many inequalities affecting more than one Italian citizen in two, just because he was born a woman. This is a battle that women in the Democratic Party have largely won, as can be seen from the composition of the parliamentary groups and the government, but a law that recognizes this obligation would make a step forward for all political parties, trigger a great change that would do very well to the system. There is no need to justify this with speeches of the kind: women are better, have studied more, are more cooperative, etc.: women have the same rights as men even when they are not better, even if they are at the same level as men, they must not be something more. Equality in a country that is all but meritocrat, is created through good practices promoted in every field starting from the institutions, because where there is no meritocracy, women are obliged to run with a boulder on their shoulders, the boulder of gender difference, considered a limit instead of a wealth. Women are under-represented in decision-making processes both in parliaments and in national governments. However, they represent half of the workforce and more than half of the new university graduates in the European Union. Europe has therefore set itself the task of promoting greater participation of women in elections in national and European parliaments. We now have the opportunity to do so, with a measure that promotes gender equality on the lists of national elections. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why, as I recall all these things, I would like to draw your attention to the need to give concrete answers. For years the country has been waiting for a reform of the electoral system, a reform that is also based on gender equality: let's discuss, let's fight if necessary, but in the end we must dismiss a new electoral law, a law that is born at a difficult time yet in a different way from the past, seeking a broad membership, which can no longer be synonymous with conservation, blocking or immobility. I feel that if we do not succeed today in this task, if we do not overcome oppositions, biases, cunning and games, we risk marking our total and perhaps definitive delegitimization as the ruling political class of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u10	Senator Granaiola, I apologize again for the buzzing and the trouble that accompanied your intervention. This shows that, in addition to making laws on the protection of gender representation, it would also be useful for this theme to enter the consciousness, culture and education of all. He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u11	Mr President, I hope and realize that during my speech there is the same buzz that was made during the previous speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u12	I hope not, Senator Malan. Many of the Members who were buzzing left luckily.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u13	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). In this sense, yes. So there will be less audience, but also less buzz. The 70th year has been coming since women voted in our country. As a matter of fact, in the 1920s women had already been formally given the right to vote in local elections alone. A few months later, Mussolini's regime abolished the vote for the local elections; but if they had been held, women could have participated. So we had to wait on 2 June 1946, that is the referendum for the choice between Republic and Monarchy and the election of the Constitutional Assembly, when finally, as was right, the women voted for the first time in our country. Many other countries arrived earlier, some later, but it is curious that, after almost seventy years, the need to introduce preferential quotas is felt. There were no privileged quotas in 1946, and I believe that at the time a very large number of women were at a disadvantage compared to men. If in a family only one of the children could study, in almost all cases - if there was one - it was the male who did so. Women were almost totally burdened with so-called housework, as well as care for the family, children and elderly: loads that at the time were much more burdensome than today, since the tools, means and comforts were inferior. Yet, at the time there were no privileged quotas, and there were several women since the first elections of the Constitutional Assembly (one of the last members of this Assembly, which disappeared a few months ago, was just a woman). Today, on the contrary, when women have many roles, even at the top, in any field, it has been discovered that there is a need for mechanisms to facilitate their access to elected positions. In decisions, particularly political ones, there should be a logic. Where's the logic? What's the reason? The reason for this could be that women are disadvantaged - according to what I have heard, in part, say in the various speeches - in their elective roles in politics precisely by being women. It might be objected that, in some cases, being such has facilitated some precisely because of the air of novelty that you breathe in seeing a woman in new roles never before covered. Certainly, this novelty is not there if in certain roles a man arrives while, if it is a woman, you have this extra element. But if there is any difficulty, if it really is more difficult for women than men to achieve certain positions, I wonder if it is only women who have this difficulty. Those who are not children of people who have played some important roles in society are on average much less favored in the search for a role that, until a few years ago, was of great prestige and today is the favorite target of the press, of bar talk and - alas - also of many political speeches. The preferred target is the Member of Parliament and, despite this, there are still many people who are willing to do so. If the point is that women have more difficulty than men in reaching political positions, for example in the national Parliament or, as we are now discussing specifically, in the European Parliament, then what do we say about an immigrant, a child of immigrants, a person who comes from a low income family or a low level of education, a disabled person? Do we think it is more difficult to become a senator or congressman for a woman, perhaps a sister or daughter of a congressman, than for an immigrant man, a disabled man, for a man who comes from a family with very low economic possibilities or a low level of education? Frankly, I don't think so. When it is then said that we will have to predict quotas for so many other situations, if we establish that only the likes can represent the likes and only women can represent the women, we deny the value of democracy in general. So we do not need elections, but we do compile a nice statistic and determine how many are between thirty and forty years old, how many between forty and fifty years old and so on. This is the same way that samples are made for political surveys: we try to have a geographical distribution by age and income groups that more or less reflect the Italian population. A good statistic is made and we get to the perfect Parliament, which is perfect except for one aspect: it does not reflect the choices of the citizens and, therefore, it is not democratic. I am of the opinion that we should hope that the voters will increasingly exercise their common sense, their assessment and their critical spirit in expressing their vote in the various ways in which it is possible to do so (because, as varied as they are in our country, they are also in the rest of Europe). No, we don't trust the voter, who has to be guided, because he doesn't understand. The voter, particularly in the European elections, has always had the opportunity to express his preferences and vote for women: I believe that there has never been a list of men alone and, if there has been one, I think it has been relegated, for this reason too, to the lower parts of the electoral standing; so if in this field the results have been of a certain kind, it has depended on a free choice of citizens, men or women who were. Some people think they know more about it than the citizens, so they need to be guided and helped: You have to vote, but as I say, and maybe if you vote for someone you don't like, I throw him out of Parliament, as it happened recently (there too, in fact, you can't give too much freedom to the people, because you don't have to trust too much). Instead, I think that we must trust and that we do well to do so, because very often the people have much more common sense than those who, in order to run after their supposed aspirations, propose stupidities, showing so little esteem for those citizens who perhaps then excel to represent (and they pick to do it better than others). The other hypothesis, which I cannot even consider, is that women in general are less good than men. At this point, it would be a lie and then also a very serious prejudice: if, for example, it is decided to form a government for half of men and half of women - as the last government has decided - before knowing who there is, then it would mean that probably some of the women are less good and that, despite there are more deserving men, with more experience and knowledge, they were taken because women. I believe that this is exactly the opposite of what should be the normal aspiration, but that frankly I do not consider priority, of the so-called gender equality - and I shall return to that word - in parliamentary representation. When a similar speech was made, and not casually, on the electoral law for national elections, I heard statements of this kind: It is unacceptable that there should be an electoral law which could allow the elected to be all men. In fact, the electoral law, as it was voted in the House, could also allow them all to be women, or all of them of the same region, or of the same city, or of a certain profession rather than of another or of a certain age (for example, all over eighty years): it could very well happen, but one forgets that the foundation of democracy is the will of the people. If we want to meet the sensitivities of the citizens, those who have the responsibility to form lists will certainly be moved to give a balanced representation in terms of age, sex, professional background and so on; if they do not, they will pay the price, if this is considered right by the citizens. So here we are in this paradoxical situation, which is why, at a time when women have a very large space - as it is only right that this should happen in every field of society - we must make a preferential lane for them. Why? Another reason is that objectively there are few: for the truth they have increased very much in recent years, but undoubtedly they are even less than men. Would it be necessary, then, to intervene in this way? It seems to me like a Palace approach; the only problem is that there are less senators than senators and less deputies than Members: if that is the case, however, there are also many less hydraulics than plumbers, many less fabbres than you do, many less computer programmers than programmers. [[Senator Gatti's comments.]] There are also many fewer deaths from accidents at work among women than among men. Do we want to rebalance this? We want to have an artificial balance, because there are few? Could we not give some space to the free choices of citizens, both in terms of choice of what activity to do and in what key to propose, and when it comes to voting? I have read (I do not have a given certificate, but I have heard it many times also from people who are experts in the field) that in competitions for access to the judiciary for several years women stand at 60% of the winners. If anyone thinks that the role of magistrate, judge or prosecutor is less important or prestigious than the parliamentary role, I would say that he has been a little absent in recent decades - and perhaps even much more - from our history. Then why shouldn't we make quotas there? The question, in that case, is not comparable to the fact that there are more plumbers male than female, because this (with all that could be reasoned about the need for a greater balance) might not be a problem for society, whereas - it is said - in Parliament it is essential that there is this fantastic balance. And when is it about going to trial, then? If it were true what is at the basis of this reasoning, that men can only be represented by men and women only by women, then what do we say about the poor defendant or part in the matter, man, whether he is in front of a majority of women or vice versa? That's a bit worse: in that case the question is not to be elected; there you are sentenced, maybe to life imprisonment, or you are not sentenced. Wouldn't it take balance there too? I don't think so. I believe that we should leave it to the citizens, both in the passive electorate and in the active electorate, how to form lists and how to form Parliament by means of their vote. The subject has nothing to do with blocked lists or preferences: here we are formally discussing the European elections, but it is clear that many people think that this has repercussions on national political elections, and we do not see why there should be this stiffening, this conculcation of freedom to determine choices. In fact, it can happen that a list does not like it or because there are too many men or because these men are too thick at the top of the list: you can decide not to vote for it, because we are in democracy, for now, at least until you can vote. For now we are talking, in the progress of democracy, about abolishing the provincial elections and abolishing the elections for the Senate, which does not mean abolishing the Provinces and abolishing the Senate; we hope that the other elections will not be abolished too, and however, waiting for the others to be abolished too, if there is a list that does not like because there are too many men, you can always decide not to vote for it. There will be many others, hopefully, because the single list would be a saving (and someone is thinking about it), but I don't think it will happen at the European elections, where we will have a very large card if anything. Finally, the text rightly speaks (and is the text that makes the norm) of "sex" while the article's heading speaks of "generous." On this there is a dangerous misunderstanding: many think that the word "genere" is a euphemism to indicate "sex" because talking about sex is a bit itchy, while talking about gender is more elegant and you can also say by taking tea in a nice sitting room. It is another thing: to define men and women as gender implies adherence to ideology which, in fact, denies gender difference. I see a colleague of the PD who makes me despondent gestures; I do not know if he has studied this doctrine, but it is very precise and it is very clear: to define men and women two genera, if we do not talk about grammar (meaning in which the table is male and the chair is female: but I do not think that we talk about grammatical gender), then, if we talk about gender related to the human species it means to adhere to a certain ideology. In fact, while sex is not an opinion but a fact of nature, gender is a matter of opinion. An individual may be physically and outwardly male, but he may feel female (or vice versa), or feel that way. It is enough to see all the rules that are very much pleasing, usually, to the same people who like the issue of quotas. There is now an endless acronym: LGBTIQ. You who are backward are still at LGBT, but those who update know that there is also IQ: lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, intergenders and queers, and of course you can go on with a long list. [[Applause from Senator Lo Giudice.]] But, then, what is the point of balancing two genders? There should be a rebalancing between three, four, five, six or seven. The reality is that belonging to this or that sex, if you accept the ideology of the genre, is a completely irrelevant issue, so you don't understand why something should matter, just in the light of this ideology, to have more or less men or women. Therefore, at least the heading should be aligned with the text: if you want to talk about gender, you put gender both in the address book and in the text; if you want to talk about sex, you put sex both in the address book and in the text. If you choose gender, let's remember that gender is a subjective thing, so a person may well call himself a male name but feel like a woman. So when presenting the list, you have to say, how do you feel? You feel like a man, you feel like a woman, you feel like something else, one of the many other LGBTIQs, or RTDs, and so on? So balance becomes problematic, but it's the only thing you can do. Attention, because here we go for a verse in a society that marries gender ideology, so there is the inculcation of this (we also have proposals of law in question to the Senate and there are documents of the Government, with the stamp of the Presidency of the Republic, that marry this ideology and want to impose it in schools); for another verse we go to the opposite extreme, that is the Iranian model, where libraries are divided into two sections: for women the books written by women and for men, the books written by men. I would like to continue to be able to read books regardless of the sex of those who wrote them and vote for candidates on the basis of a person's reliability, ideas and resume, and not on the basis of whether he is a man or a woman, which is absolutely nothing to me as an elector. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u14	I greet the students and teachers of the Media School "Gaetano Cardelli" of Mosciano Sant'Angelo, in the province of Teramo, who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into Mr Malan's biosociological analysis, but I will just make a few comments. The first, the simplest, of a regulatory nature, taking a small step back, not in the centuries or decades, but in the past years, in the regulatory evolution on this subject, which I have had the chance to follow, being from some legislature in this Chamber of the Senate. When we introduced the legislation on preferential alternation in the European elections, that is ten years ago, exactly at the time of two European elections, it was then said that that legislative initiative was a promotional initiative, and not for nothing it was limited to two electoral rounds, because everyone had convinced himself (especially the proposers) that that rule would certainly facilitate and resolve the problem of so-called gender equality in the elections, especially in the note of the elected following the European elections. I would like this concept to be further reiterated. In fact, if that rule, we call it experimental, proportional, but nevertheless with a transitional nature, was destined to have certain effects, what it has done is the effects that have been achieved, and therefore we cannot intervene again considering those effects sufficient or insufficient. The rule - I repeat - was transitional, we could say promotional, and the results of what we can call improperly promotion have been achieved. We should now return to a regime of absolute democratic normality and absolute freedom, because this is the foundation of democracy and free choice directly linked to democracy. Therefore, from the point of view of regulatory developments, I believe that the initiative of this bill is absolutely inappropriate, because the transitional cycle which opened ten years ago with the rule on preferences in relation to the European elections has already ended. I repeat, I would find it absolutely inappropriate to come back to this. In the same way, I find it absolutely inappropriate to debate some of the elements with regard to alleged discrimination against equal opportunities. There are many discriminations in our society that deny equal opportunities to more people, but they are no longer discrimination between men and women. The real challenges with regard to equal opportunities must be sought in social discrimination, in the obstacles that every citizen, man or woman, can face in the path of access to democratic institutions. Equal opportunities are not reserved for a gender, but a social duty which must be carried out in the interests of all citizens, starting from birth and throughout social and life development, so that everyone can be guaranteed access not only to institutional life, but also to study, profession, career, work and everything that is part of each of us's lives and that can be undermined by social barriers, against which we must actually focus our attention so that they are removed and that equal opportunities are effectively such for every citizen. There is no longer any discrimination in terms of equal opportunities between genders. If this were still the case in 2014, much of our institutional and legislative commitment would not have been profitable at all. Another concept I wish to pursue is that of freedom linked to democracy. Democracy must express itself in maximum freedom. Each of us must have the opportunity not only to indicate and choose our representative, but to do so without any kind of dirigism and conditioning. All citizens who qualify for candidacy - and the requirement for female candidacy has been properly introduced by the Republican Constitution - must have the possibility of being freely included in the lists and of being freely voted by the citizens, according to a choice of liking, which is not correct to define meritorious (in fact, merit is not the only element that induces the citizen to express his consent) and according to a choice of absolute freedom, also in the formation of lists. The risk, if the agreement that the agencies fought a few hours ago with regard to the definition of this draft law were to actually take effect even in the next parliamentary term of the European Parliament, is that citizens do not have the opportunity to make lists with candidates of the same kind. And this, given also the numerical component of our fellow citizens, who see the prevalence of the female gender, is certainly more detrimental to the latter than to the male one. In fact, in five years' time, if, I repeat, this bill were to be defined in terms in which it was announced, there would be a kind that should limit its presence on the lists for the benefit of another kind that in the country is numerically inferior. As well as removing the freedom to make lists exclusively of a genre. I am thinking of the many movements that over time have alternated with the ideal driving of equal opportunities, in the traditional sense and for me, which are now incongruous and overcome by the difference between men and women, who in the past have had the faculty - I do not know whether or not they have exercised it - to make lists of all women's gender. This will no longer be possible, because we are introducing, in the democratic freedom that should preside over all political choices in a democratic country like ours, elements of dirigism that, in my opinion, are absolutely inconsistent and inappropriate. Democratic freedom cannot be affected by such constraints. Freedom must be able to allow everyone to ask for the consent of their fellow citizens and each one to be able to express it to those he considers to be worthy of it, regardless of gender and social conditions. Otherwise, one could imagine tomorrow a return to the requirement of a certain social condition in order to be able to run or even to be able to vote. It is, in my opinion, dangerous, which in a certain way hangs also in the parliamentary classrooms of our country. At a time when reigning demagogy introduces principles of non-remuneration, through the allowance, of parliamentary positions, it automatically leads to discrimination between those who can afford to spend a large part of their time in Parliament, because they have other economic resources, and those who cannot afford it, and therefore must give up the possibility of applying and giving their contribution of ideas and values to the Homeland through the presence in the legislative classrooms, because they are conditioned by economic factors. I believe that the field of our debate, both on this occasion and when we consider the possibility of not paying political office, must be cleared of these elements of prevailing demagogy, under which there are also profiles of lobbying, a practice which, as we know, is not anchored in the genre, but which, in the genres and origins of its behaviour, has as its aim the precise protection or of positions acquired or positions that are to be acquired. I know I am not overly welcome for the things I am saying, but this strenuous defense of percentages, of obligations of preference and of dirigism in the free choice of citizens, as I said earlier, also sounds like institutional lobbying. And this, even if it is meant to be, I hope that it is not at all in the results of our legislative work. We therefore leave the citizens the absolute freedom to choose how to group on the lists: if ever there were even all lists of only female or male gender, these would be absolutely welcome and certainly important. However, let us not impose on the citizens percentages to be respected in order to compose the lists to be presented to the electorate, let alone gender percentages in the expression of preferences, because in doing so we would make it conditional on free choice and free democratic results. I wanted to re-assess these brief considerations - I do not know how high the debate that preceded me and what will follow - because in my opinion - I repeat - the concepts of equal opportunities and democratic freedom should be much more present in our daily debate, and on them we should reflect adequately, before taking such markedly sectoral positions and so markedly accidents on what are our democratic processes and on what is the formation of the freedom of our fellow citizens, as well as ourselves as our electors. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u17	I greet the students of the Scuola medio statale (School) Carlo Goldoni in Martellago, in the province of Venice, who are following our works from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u18	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be able to attach the text of my speech to the report, but I would like to make a few comments on issues which I believe have emerged from the debate and which are very inconsistent for me. First of all, we must take into account the fact that in all the electoral systems (we think of the European elections or those in the municipalities, in the regions, or in italicum itself, which will be discussed in this House in the next few days) on the issue of gender balance and the presence of women and men in the lists have a sort of Harlequin's dress. The choices made by our Parliament on electoral laws reflect a very different view for each institution or election. I personally agree with the proposal made by the rapporteur, Mrs Lo Moro (except for one point, which I will then say later), because I believe that in all the elections in our country gender equality should be envisaged, both in the lists we are going to present and in the possibility of expressing preferences. I also think, of course, that preferences should be expressed at all levels at which elections are held, by the municipalities, the regions, the Parliament, as well as the Europeans. I therefore believe that Parliament should, on a certain date, be less schizophrenic, and probably also get to grips with this issue at all levels of institutional representation that we have. I believe that we are coming - as my colleague Mr D'Alì mentioned - to the determination of a gender presence for the European elections, especially in colleges where three preferences are expressed, through a diversification of preferences which provides that at least one of the three is of a different gender than the other two. I would like to make it clear that very often the voters are ahead of us. I voted five years ago in my constituency, North-East: for my party, four MEPs were elected, of whom two were women and two were men. So, we were perfect in identifying gender preferences. Probably, I say it as a male, the standards in question will in the future be more to safeguard the male gender than the female gender; for this reason I am very attentive to this norm. The only question that makes me think - and which has already been mentioned in the debate by my fellow Members - is the question of changing the rules in the course of the game. I have already seen, in my area and in my province, the banquets of some lists that are collecting signatures: so the lists have already been deposited, and on these they are collecting signatures. I am convinced that you should not change the rules of the game when the game is in progress. I am therefore of the opinion to intervene on the draft law under consideration by providing for gender rules, but without this going to change the rules of the game. So who today, out of absurdity, is collecting signatures for an all-male list or an all-female list cannot be put in a position to have to go back: I ask that he be given the opportunity, for this electoral round, to present the list and to be able to go to the vote and the electoral confrontation. At the same time, as Europe says to change the rules of the game a year before the elections, I believe that we can come up with an overview of the change for the next European elections. I believe, Mr President, that in the coming weeks there will be evidence of the nine, when we are going to vote on Italicum. In this debate, we have embraced each other to support gender preferences; it seems to me that in Italicum, at least in the text that came out of the House, these are not there. This is a point on which we will have to see whether there is consistency with what we are doing in this House today and with what we are probably going to do in the coming weeks. I believe that the rules should be uniform in all the bodies where we are going to vote, to provide clarity to the voter, since very often we only vote on the symbols, whereas sometimes we have three preferences, sometimes we have two, and in some cases we have one. I believe that this situation cannot be sustained or that it will cause much confusion in our electorate. Therefore, when I agree with the proposed law, I just say that I think this should be applied from the next European elections because we cannot change the rules of the current game, as has been said several times. I repeat, however, that the proposal which provides that the three preferences should be expressed in terms of the two genres can be fully transposed. It seems to me that this type of agreement is coming along, and I believe that my group will support it. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u20	The Presidency shall authorise it to attach the text of the intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text proposed by the Commission amends Articles 12, 13 and 14 of Law No 18 of 24 January 1979 laying down rules on the election of Members of the European Parliament to Italy. The rules affect the ability to indicate preferences in the vote and, at the same time, the gender distribution in the lists of candidates. The draft law provides that, at the time of presentation, candidates of the same sex may not exceed half in each list, with rounding to the unit. In the list order, the first two candidates must be of different sex. It states that the Circumscription Election Office shall verify that the list of candidates complies with what is described. Otherwise, the Office reduces the list by deleting the names of the candidates belonging to the most represented gender, proceeding from the last of the list, in order to ensure compliance with the same provision. Already this mechanism leaves considerable perplexity. Moreover, the provision provides that, within the framework of the three preferences provided for in Article 14 of Law No 18 of 1979, if the elector actually decides to express more than one preference, the choice must include candidates of both kinds, subject to the annulment of the second and third preference. In essence, at least one of the two or three preferences expressed must indicate a female candidate. The content of the measure is not discussed; what causes regret is the confusion about the timing of the measure. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the game has already begun, the collection of signatures for the European elections begins one hundred and eighty days before the day of the elections (then it has already begun); instead of resigning to this insurmountable wall, we must insist on continuing. If a gender ratio of 66-33 per cent is easily respectable even in the course of work, the 50-50 per cent proportion, present in the text dismissed by the Commission, is difficult to respect and threatens to create a mechanism for selecting candidates that clearly deviates from that idea of meritocracy. At political level, in Europe, women are little present, much less than men. On average, throughout the European Union, representation in pink weighs 27% of all elected parliamentarians, and the more open to women in politics do not reach the threshold of 50%. This is what emerges from the study "Actions for gender equality in the European Parliament, elections 2014" carried out by the European Parliament itself in view of the upcoming European elections (22-25 May 2014). Produced by the Department of Constitutional Affairs and Citizens' Rights of the Directorate-General for Internal Policies, the study compares the different degree of female representation in the countries of the European Union (the study is on the European Union 27, and does not include Croatia, which entered last July). The countries with the largest pink quotas are Sweden and Finland (both 43%), followed by Belgium (41 percent) and Spain (40 percent). The worst is the Hungarian figure (9 percent), preceded by Cyprus (11 percent) and Malta (12 percent). Italy is halfway down the road, with a rate of 28% of female representation: just above the EU-27 average. The study, however, argues that the electoral system is not a determining factor in the election of more or less women. The data show that the electoral system combined with open lists is responsible for both the best performance (the Swedish) and the worst (the Cypriot). To determine the possibilities of election of women, notes the study, is the interaction between electoral system and political party. With equal rules and conditions, in short, it is party action that decides the fate of its members. Mr Dalla Tor has just reminded us that in Veneto, in our party, the distribution is exactly 50%. The importance of the role of women in all its aspects is a dynamic to be preserved and cured. The words "society" and "maturity" highlight this choice and the case is that they are also of a female gender. We must deal with this problem on a timely and careful basis. Article 51 of our Constitution states: "All citizens of one sex or another may have access to public offices and elective offices under equal So, ladies and gentlemen, there is already a rule in this respect. It should be noted that the gender balance, in addition to being linked to the principle of substantial equality, is a further functional dimension, taking place within the framework of the implementing instruments of the principles set out in Article 97 of the Constitution, where the balanced participation of men and women (with different patrimony of humanity, sensitivity, with the cultural and professional approach that characterizes the two genres) in the decision-making and operational mechanisms of executive or summit bodies becomes a new instrument for guaranteeing, functionality, greater productivity, optimal pursuit of objectives and transparency and impartiality of political action. It is therefore the moral and civil norm of equality that, together with the seed of freedom, differentiates us from totalitarianism and dictatorships. When they wrote this wonderful experiment of fine legislative art, our constituent Fathers had already thought about the importance of gender equality. The women, during the war, begged the men, who on the battlefield risked their lives to defend the country; they carried on whole families, supported the economy of a torn nation and, as promoters of the family feeling, were the glue of our society. Today more than ever, female representation is a duty for all of us. The objection we are making today is that the rules of the game do not change when the game is running, but, from my point of view, making effective what Article 51 of the Constitution says in concrete measures, which can make this participation effective, is a very strong principle. Making effective the dictation of Article 51 of the Constitution, at this moment, means reaffirming a sacrosanct and very important principle for the growth of the democratic system of our country: a democratic system that at this moment, because of a cultural problem, is not completely that from the point of view of representativeness. I believe that, when the citizens are called to vote, on 25 May, what will interest them and which must affect the institutions is that the citizens' main right to vote freely, an unconditioned vote, a vote entrusted to the free awareness of the elector and his intelligence, to that intelligent, rational and mature capacity, which the Italian elector has and has always had since 1948. The simplest solution, both politically and technically, is to postpone to a second stage the rules on the composition of lists and to stick to the principle of the percentage of 40-60. If there are controversial points in the measure and if the time has passed, because of the proximity of the European elections, we will postpone the speech or clear the current situation. We exclude the application of the new rules for the upcoming European elections in 2014 and discuss them calmly. The haste is a bad councilwoman: just observe the failures of electoral laws passed quickly to meet limited political needs timelessly. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure seeks to heal a vulnus: the vulnus of gender participation and representation in the European Parliament. I am sure that this House will once again give evidence of maturity and will be able to find the right solution, containing the different needs of the parties and the demands that come from different social partners. My speech, however, will take only a few minutes to denounce the vulnus that is being created for the absence of territorial representation and of the regions in the European Parliament. In particular, Sardinia is included in a single constituency with Sicily and, therefore, is penalised in the right of European representation. This problem emerges because of the disparity of resident population; in Sicily there are more than 5 million residents, compared to 1,600,000 residents in Sardinia. David vs Goliath is to be said. In the last twenty years Sardinia has never elected its representatives to the European Parliament in the first instance, which, since 1979, have almost always succeeded the Sicilian candidates, which means that the direct election to its representatives has been denied to this region. In order to avoid the abstentionism to the ballot box and the vulnus that is being imposed between voters and politics, I affirm with conviction that the Sardinian college must necessarily be autonomous or joint, through a remodulation of the colleges, with Regions more similar in number of inhabitants than Sicily, or that a different electoral law assures the direct representation of the Sardinians: a consensual separation of the island circumscription with the modification of the same in two distinct circumscriptions. The goal of the autonomous colleges would guarantee Sardinia to have two seats in Europe and Sicily to have six. Only then will the Sardinians be able to come closer to the vote for the European Parliament, having the certainty that, through it, they will elect a representative to protect and defend their rights and the rights of Sardinia in Europe. [[Applause from Senator Zanda.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating here today would have deserved more consideration and respect for both the timing and the manner in which the debate should have taken place. We had five years at our disposal, and instead we come to the present day, and we find, or we remember, that we need to analyse the problem of electoral rules for the election of the European Parliament. In fact, the problem arose in 2004, when a transitional rule on gender representation for the European elections was voted in Parliament. In order to promote women's access to the post of Member of the European Parliament, a transitional rule established, limited to the 2004 and 2009 elections, that neither gender could be represented in the lists of candidates to a greater than two thirds of the candidates on the list. Too bad, however, that we have not been able to add to that transitional rule of sanctions, so the provisions on preferences, which for two legislatures have been in force in our European election system, have then been lost in effectiveness. After two legislatures that rule has fallen. Normally these norms are built to boost change, because the real battle on gender equality is a long cultural battle. In Europe at 28, only four nations have a European electoral law that requires gender representation (who of a third, who of 40% and who of 50%), and yet if we go to the European Parliament, we see that women are widely represented. Nobody is therefore surprised by the presence of women on the list, no one is surprised how these women are elected by agreements made within the lists. This work within the parties is possible, because it is born in a cultural environment in which equality in civil society is taken up. We Italians are very stuttering about it. We have rules that always allow us to bend around, stuttering. Why do I say we always stutter? Because we never have the courage to face definitively and openly what might be a point of no return. We need a political commitment to change, through good practice, behavior which is certainly not fair. If we do not strongly reverse this kind of trend we will never be able to fully demonstrate in the facts that we want to change. Standards aren't neutral. The rules have a profound impact on the social fabric. Standards create opportunities, if not for us, for those who come after us, men and women. The attitude which, however, once again prevails in this House is distrust, not towards an objective and effective reversal that might exist, but about the way in which this could happen. The passage we are making in this House today is conditioned, and I regret it, by a vulnus that surprises us. If we, in fact, modify in the course of work the rules that must apply to all and that are the foundation of our being together, if - I repeat - in the course of work we change the rules, we risk to operate in a contradictory way and to create even more loosening with the real country. Too bad you didn't operate in time, at three hundred and sixty degrees, on this subject. It has been known for five years that the European elections would take place this year. Too bad we let this whole time go by. Perhaps we have missed an opportunity, yet again, to take a serious speech. It would be a shame to hand over, again this time, a strangled result, to the citizens and citizens of our nation. The text proposed by the Commission amends Articles 12, 13 and 14 of Law No 18 of 24 January 1979 laying down rules on the election of Members of the European Parliament to Italy. The rules affect the ability to indicate preferences in the vote and, at the same time, the gender distribution in the lists of candidates. The bill provides that at the time of presentation, in each list, candidates of the same sex may not exceed half, with rounding to the unit. In the list order, the first two candidates must be of different sex. It provides that the circumscription electoral office shall verify that the list of candidates complies with the above. Otherwise, the office reduces the list by deleting the names of the candidates belonging to the most represented gender, proceeding from the last of the list, in order to ensure compliance with the same provision. Moreover, the provision provides that, within the framework of the three preferences provided for in Article 14 of Law No 18 of 1979, if the elector actually decides to express more than one preference, the choice must include candidates of both kinds, subject to the annulment of the second and third preference. In essence, at least one of the two or three preferences expressed must indicate the name and surname of a female candidate. The content of the measure is not discussed; what causes regret is the confusion about the timing of the measure. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the game has already begun, the collection of signatures for Europeans begins one hundred and eighty days before the day of the elections (i.e. it has already begun); instead of resigning to this insurmountable wall, one insists on continuing. This measure has come to the agenda of our part-time work, but only in the last few days. However, as far as I'm concerned, we're beyond those 180 days. The bill was presented in the Senate on 9 January and has so far remained before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs without anyone stressing the urgent need to proceed quickly in view of the forthcoming European elections. Another critical point to stress concerns the quotas provided for in the measure: initially, the draft law submitted to the Commission provided that, within each list, neither gender can be represented in more than two thirds of the total. If a gender ratio of 66% or 33% is easily respectable even in the course of work, the 50-50 proportion in the text dismissed by the Commission is difficult to respect and risks creating a mechanism for selecting candidates that is blatantly removed from that idea of meritocracy. The use of the current electoral law may or may not be pleasing, but in a parliamentary democracy it must find in the Executive the most arrogant guardian. Putting your hands in mid-March on legislation which, on the last Sunday of May, should have its effects would be a serious matter for our democratic history. It would be a serious fact because what can be defined as the man-woman packages would overlap with the orderly development of the acceptance of lists in the districts, of the collection of signatures, of aspirations to be elected and of campaigning for preferences, with those who want and can be reached in due time, and not with those who can destabilize with a law that is passed at the last moment. There are agreements on the territory to be protected, electoral campaigns already started to preserve and already pre-constituted interests that paradoxically, in a month, could be called into question because it must be carried out, a few weeks after the European elections, to new proportions in the composition of the lists established by law. The law, ladies and gentlemen, should ensure stability and certainty and not create uncertainties, confusion and overlaps of rules, as well as open games. It would end up conveying the idea that everything is mutable and changing and that any interest can be asphalted at any time, without any kind of guarantee. The end of the one hundred and eighty days is technical and also peremptory: it would be wrong, for the speech just supported, to consider it merely authorising. I therefore believe that the Senate would do better not to hibernate and, if it decides to do so, I hope that it will not use obstructionism, but common sense and the rules of Western democracy which, as a constitutional, places limits on itself and on the way in which the institutions can dispose of the power they exercise in the name of the Italian people. However, I hope that there will be a political agreement which will certainly not upset the current system of legislation which has laid down the rules for the already started electoral competition. Only in this way will it be possible to operate with a great sense of balance. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure comes from a draft law by my colleague, Mr Fedeli, which initially provided for a gender rebalancing for a third party, with a preference vote under which the criterion was that at least one of the three candidates should be of different sex, as well as determining the order in which subjects of different sex should be placed. Following it was presented by my colleague Alberti Casellati, of Forza Italia, a bill that, on the other hand, went around forty percent in terms of gender equality and established that, in preference, there should be a man and a woman. These two were joined by other bills: one signed by President Calderoli and one signed by Mr Amoruso. The latter, in particular, dealt only and exclusively with the vote of preference, limiting to a preference, without distinction of sex. Well, we have discussed this very thoroughly in the Commission, and I must acknowledge the rapporteur, Mrs Lo Moro, that she has tried to sum up what was at the basis of the various draft laws, and thus to draw up a text on which we have tabled a number of amendments. For the first time there was the barrier threshold and, let's face it all: if we are here today, I believe that great pars of the affair is due to the issue of the barrier, because otherwise we would have already found the square with regard to any votes of preference: in fact, the text of Senator Fadeli had already been accepted by us - I speak of Forza Italia - entirely. Instead, we wanted to draw up a new text which, I must say, has collected the various proposals put forward, but has gone a little further. In particular, it established fifty percent of the preferred vote, fifty percent of the gender representation and the preferred vote as alternate vote. Well: now, after a broad debate, due solely and exclusively to the fact that all the groups in the Commission have withdrawn the amendments to discuss them in this House, the text of Mrs Lo Moro has arrived, which we have voted unanimously, but on which we should still have reason. I think we're in the Cesarini area, as they say. Therefore, we could also avoid continuing this, which is not a dialogue between the deaf, but which must necessarily understand which political forces obey a certain legislative dictation. We had already said, I repeat, that we agree on a third, on gender representation, and on three preferences, in which case one should be of the other kind; if instead preference were one, gender should be indistinguished, and if there were two, they could also be of the same kind. We remain faithful to this text and to these amendments, in the light of a debate that has been painstaking, long and, at some moments, also tedious: excuse me if I say this, but I have noticed many colleagues trying to climb the mirrors, in order to say and not to say, in interventions that had only and exclusively the motivation of the barrier, but with which they tried to screw up everything. I would ask the rapporteur to consider what emerged from the debate today, namely that preferences can and must be three, with a different kind. Then, with regard to this election season, I would stop here, if only because, at the request of the members of the Commission, the representative of the Ministry of the Interior intervened in the Commission to tell us that problems could be created regarding the collection of signatures. We all know that this, in the case of the European elections, begins one hundred and eighty days earlier: the criticalities possibly created by a bill to the full in the lists - and symbols - that had already been deposited and subscribed by a number of citizens could have been elements of unconstitutionality. On the basis of this, I call on the House to consider: let us marry that thesis, but only from the legislature that has to come. Today's can only foresee three preferences and give the possibility of having a sex other than the other two. In this respect, I believe I can conclude by inviting the rapporteur and the House to consider what I have just said. If the text which I have heard from the rapporteur is going in that direction, it would certainly see the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u29	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro, for her work in the Commission and in this House, and for recalling the importance of the draft law presented. Even after the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, he said that the debate was quite shared, especially in the desire to guarantee and recognize women, with the triple gender preference, a significant role as candidates for the European Parliament. He then recalled the urgency of the measure. We know that we are voting on 25 May and without this draft law we would be found out, because the previous legislation, albeit transiently, has entered into the substance of the problems that have to do with gender equality. In a comment published today in a newspaper it is titled "Other than pink quotas, it is equal democracy": this is the appropriate expression and has been mentioned in many speeches that preceded mine, even in recent days. I read from this article: "Parisial democracy is the appropriate expression. Appropriate to indicate that the representation of the people (the one we elect in Parliament with the vote), in order to be democratic and not "oligarchical," must give "representation" of the basic fact that the people are made half by men and half by women and that therefore the parliamentary composition must be equal. The criteria by which representatives are chosen, i.e. the famous merit, quality and competence of candidates, are equally relevant to both men and women and are not subject to the equal rule, unless one thinks that merit, quality and competence abound among men and are so dramatically lacking among women that they have to resort to incompetent fools to respect it. Equal democracy does not constitute any concession, any gift or protection, it is the simple taking of action (the fruit of an epochal cultural and political revolution) that the sovereign people are made of men and women and is not a neutral, indistinct notion. That is precisely what I mentioned in the article. As has already been mentioned in recent days, this legislature has dealt with women's issues with many facets and the issue of gender equality through acts such as the ratification of the Convention against Violence on Women and the approval of the legislation on feminicide. The Istanbul Convention defines the most advanced regulatory framework of the international standard for preventing and combating violence against women, protecting victims and criminalising those responsible. It should be stressed that in its preamble it is stressed that achieving equality between the sexes de iure and de facto is a key element in preventing violence against women. And in the area of security and the fight against gender violence, we must remember the rules set out in Decree-Law 93 of 2013, concerning family abuse, sexual violence and persecutory acts, which introduced elements such as, for example, new aggravating factors, the irrevocability of the complaint lodged for stalking and the prohibition of the detention of weapons in the event of the quaestor's warning for the same crime. And how much violence we are still seeing these days in our Italy. From the point of view of work and the women's question, the 11th Commission, of which I am a member, dealt with the examination of Decree-Law No 76 of 2013, laying down provisions on work and VAT, and the phenomenon of resignation in white. The protection of workers and workers with co-ordinated and continuous cooperation contracts, including project contracts, has been extended in the area of combating this phenomenon. I would also like to mention the work I have done in approving the proposal to set up the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work and occupational diseases, of which I have been rapporteur: I consider the amendments adopted on gender equality within the Commission of Inquiry and on the gender perspective, with which the Commission is expected to ascertain the incidence and prevalence of accidents at work by reason of the type of victims, through the conduct of appropriate analyses. Through this perspective, the aim is to give a multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary approach to the study in the reading of phenomena, as in the case of accidents at work. Because there is a substantial difference with regard to accidents as well. You must know, for example, that as a result of an accident, when a woman or a man loses a hand, the insurance gives the hand of a man a higher value; the hand of a woman is worth less than that of a man also in this case. There are other facts to remember; on gender equality there are rules that I consider as a guarantee: guarantee of the quality of our democracy, in a country where women still too often give up having children or, when they have children, they give up or unfortunately lose their jobs; a country where a woman earns less than a man while performing the same tasks, often next to each other. The average is 11.5 percent, but we know that even 18 percent is reached. Not to mention when there is an appointment to be made; I am talking about decision-making places, where decisions are made that are really relevant to the community, such as economic decisions; let's see how many primary there are in hospitals, how many women there are at the Constitutional Court, or the Court of Auditors, or in the Authority. Women are very poorly considered. Women today have many desires and are unwilling to give up: they want to study, do a job that suits their education, make a career, be mothers. In short, they want to help build conditions to be truly free and responsible. But if this is the new reality, it follows that it is necessary to build the forms of a new coexistence between men and women. It means, in short, the common construction of democratic institutions, cooperation in social activities, sharing of care work, sharing therefore also of public power and private responsibilities, in a democracy that also recognizes on the public scene the existence of the two genders. Democracy and its institutions must be the result of the contribution of both men and women. Equal treatment can only be effective through the adoption of rules that recognise the specificities of women and men, giving up the idea of a neutral rule, which in reality tends to favour a model, the male model, as a reference model. Only by taking note of the differences and their consequences, in the development of social norms and policies, can integration be achieved in all areas, from work to the family and society in general, of a gender dimension, in order to achieve the main objective of an improbable cultural emancipation, fundamental for those who fight to recognize the rights, the rights of all. Unfortunately, the House's approval of the new electoral law has taken a step back on the issue of equal gender representation in the lists. A choice I dare say anachronistic: they did not want to recognize the real changes that Italy has experienced in recent years, in which there is a real protagonism of women, visible in all fields, also in the economic one, because more women working and producing means a growth of our GDP. It has been said and it has been written that among the causes of the continuing crisis that involves our economic system there is certainly the absence of women also from the public sphere. Parliament at the highest rate of female participation cannot underestimate this issue, which is of fundamental importance to the democratic life of our country. The measures for fair gender representation among the elected must be contained in the electoral laws of the elected assemblies at all levels of government, from that for the election of the Chamber of Deputies to the Parliament of the European Union. This is why we ask everyone to address the issue as a matter of urgency: on such an important issue for the future of the country we cannot afford to withdraw from the path of qualification of representation achieved in recent years with the competition of all - I repeat of all - political forces. This is a question of civilization, which does not mean approving a measure on the basis of the principle of protecting a supposed weakness, that of women, but of the need and desire to broaden participation and in it the responsibility for the democratic life of women. On the contrary, penalising them would mean penalising the majority of the country, even in the face of Europe. This is the novelty of today, which we must take into account. We mentioned in many speeches on 8 March, which has just passed. Now we are projected towards another very important date, not only for women, but for all of us, for Italy as a whole. A fundamental step towards the path of that equal democracy, of that distant 2 June 1946 when the Italians, as many as 12 million, went to the polls for the first time also to determine a true equal democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u31	We greet the students of the State Institute of Higher Education in San Giovanni in Persiceto, in the province of Bologna, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u32	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that the measures we are considering today contain a number of provisions of untenable importance. The importance of the urgent need to proceed with a clear regulatory correction that is in the direction of putting in place legislation that was limited to two legislative acts. Therefore, it is an act of regulatory consistency, which we cannot fail to share and not support. But when we talk about gender equality and the protection of the variety of representation, especially in a European electoral framework, which provides for the projection of the preferences representative of our country in Europe, we want to uphold a principle of equity, full representation and transparency; of course, full democracy of the exercise of the vote, strengthening the legitimacy that the maximum exercise of democratic power should always have. Elements that cannot be exempted in the name of any other cause or reason. And on this point, I guess we all agree. Or maybe we're just talking. Because, it seems to emerge from the agreement just opened between some forces, the concept of equal opportunities can reach different degrees of relevance depending on the needs of the moment. Hence the rule of thumb - let me say this - which provides for, yes, the possibility of a gender vote, but within the framework of the principle of the three preferences. It is as if a loophole to the gender vote were legitimate by introducing the third way, or rather the third preference, to which the citizen is not bound. A creative norm, as was rightly renamed by disappointed senators. And how not to understand them, on the other hand. Indeed, no full and transparent guarantee of the protection of women's representation in the European Parliament, towards which we have always and in any case reaffirmed the full and total sharing of our Group. All this waiting for better times, namely 2019, the year when full gender equality should perhaps come into force. The above veto also led to another brilliant veto: the maintenance of the barrier threshold. Once again, in our country we are trying to divide the problem of democratic representation into several levels of interest, taking what is most convenient to us; in this case the talk of the so-called pink quota (unfortunately in their most ephemeral legislative version) has taken place, but the door to everything else has closed, valorizing on the one hand (but in a bad way) the issue of gender equality, and putting on the corner the one afferent to the threshold of representation, which are - I want to reiterate - two sides of the same identical medal. Don't forget that. In the name of the constitutional principle of equality and equal opportunities, it is worth reminding this House of what has happened in a country that we usually identify as the metaphor of modernity and the rule of law. 18.15 p.m. (BYAGIO'S FOLLOW-UP). On 26 February, the German Constitutional Court ruled that the barrier threshold for German parties at the next European elections (in Germany at 3%) is unconstitutional precisely because of that same constitutional principle of equality and equal opportunities. It is precisely with this awareness that it will be my concern to take action to raise the question of the constitutional legitimacy of this which will become a law before the Constitutional Court, because, ladies and gentlemen, equal opportunities are not only synonymous with "pink rates," as they are brutally identified by someone. They are an expression of a range of rights that revolve around the imperative need to guarantee everyone the same potential and the same possibility to give shape and substance to their project. The liveliness of the political representation of our country and the significant number of parties and aggregations cannot be framed as a limit or a demon to be cast out. Minorities are protected by small territorially-bound parties. There are movements that trace the instances of individual groups or social components. We cannot assume the right to decide for them, by closing the door in the face of any legitimate and democratic representation hypothesis, simply because it stands below a threshold that for someone is considered limit. If the barrier threshold could be framed, on the side of national elections, as a guarantee of governability, in order to prevent small parties from destabilizing, we know that this speech cannot apply to the European elections. That must be clear. We cannot accept that decisions on the legitimacy of our representation are political forces which have not been particularly distinguished by transparency and clarity and which now, with provocations, point to the legitimate demand for full representation as a mere "call for parties" to have a place in Parliament. Seriously, I do not want to shoot at the Red Cross, but we could make a painful list of the pretentious demands that this political force made some time ago on the European elections. First of all, the famous attempt to remove preferences from the electoral law for Europeans to place the usual blocked lists populated by profiles that had little or nothing to do with politics, and that theoretically should have represented Italy in Europe. A responsibility and a burden that many are struggling to comprehend, unfortunately. The 360° representation of the various levels of Italian social and political participation should be preferred in Europe. I am referring, therefore, to an Italy capable of arriving in Brussels with profiles that really correspond to civil society, to the individual territorial expressions and to the demands of this or that group. Not, therefore, with the usual setback of men of apparatus well away from the real needs of the country. I believe that it is only in this way that it is possible to renew the country's role in Europe, i.e. through parliamentary representations that are active and proactive and that can correctly translate into projects and provisions the multiple requests that come from the territory. In this way we can hope that Italy will move from the last wheel of the towing cart. Therefore, it is dangerously speculative to point out as a defender of the parties who wants a European Parliament in which Italy really has a voice characterized by the multiplicity of its inclinations and experiences. We have missed another opportunity to put ourselves in a position to understand that the concept of participatory democracy is not declined according to moods or circumstances. It is a universally valid principle, which could create a precedent in our country that is not functional to the requirements of safeguarding binding rights. For this reason, the veto on the barrier thresholds, moved by reasons of political livre and ridiculous exploitations, represents a slap in the face of the country that wants to leave out, to what is not recognized in the big parties and that has different ideas and instances. It is a slap in the face of the freedom of one's ideas, individual projects and the desire to safeguard one's precious identity. Once again we have won the hysterisms and demagogy, which always accompanies our political debate. We know very well that if we really wanted genuinely operational institutional representatives and, above all, representative representatives in Europe, we would have had to start with small things, making sure that these really represented those who voted for them. We have chosen another route and another path, and we cannot help but draw a few small budgets. I do not know how my group will vote, but I know what I will do. Personally, although I do not deny the support and confidence of this Government, I am obliged to consider my abstention during the vote on the various amendments to the legislative text, because of a political dignity and a claim of coherence and legitimacy which, unfortunately, has often been ignored in this House. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u34	We greet the students of the Istituto Tecnico Industriale Stato .John Caramuel of Vigevano, in the province of Pavia, who are following our works from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u35	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to introduce regulatory changes with the draft law for the European elections on gender equality seems, in my opinion, at least inappropriate, and this is due to the very short time that separates us from the forthcoming elections for the renewal of Parliament in Europe. Once again, within a few days, the Italian Parliament is debating the issue of gender equality, i.e. democratic representation in the institutions by women. It is clearly a topic dear to the Italians, which continues to have the drive of the political forces, of the Head of State himself, but also of public opinion; a subject on which, despite the many convergences, we continue to act with almost improvised political methods. I am saying this because we are talking about a law that should certainly be amended, but with the criterion of continuing along a path that has already begun for some time and which is still going for itself in this direction. As I said before, the times are not the right ones and trying to make hasty changes could be unlawful, that is, a diacronic, if not anachronistic work on our part, a useless and incomplete effort, in short. But why do I say that we are not in the right times? Well, given the more than peaceful principle that electoral rules cannot be changed in the run-up to elections, or even almost in elections, I would like to remind you here that the European Commission itself - while declaring that a definite proportion or share of seats or resources should be guaranteed to women reserved for a specific group, generally on the basis of certain rules or criteria, aimed at correcting a previous imbalance, usually with regard to decision-making positions or access to training or jobs - has already expressed itself clearly in terms of electoral reform, specifying that electoral laws cannot undergo changes starting one year before the elections themselves. Moreover, specifically, as far as the current competition is concerned, we are already doubly out of time because - as we know from various sources and also from the media - the compilations of the electoral lists and the collection of signatures have already been started and, from one hundred and eighty days before the elections, by law we cannot intervene in this matter to make changes. Despite these references, however, I am certainly aware of the importance of this debate of ours, especially in certain respects and in spite of the above limits; and the importance is, of course, given by the issue of female representation in our political and democratic system. In general, we can say that the concept of gender equality represents a shift from one concept of equality to another: from the classical liberal notion of equality such as "medesime opportunity" or "competitive equality" to a second concept of equality understood as "equal results." And the argument of many observers is that, in reality, there are no equal opportunities of departure, not even removing formal obstacles. Effective equality, therefore, cannot be achieved through equality of formal treatment, since direct discrimination, together with a set of barriers, prevents women from sharing political power. And, in order to understand how much this aspect is significantly current, just remember the debate and events of the past days in the House on the vote on gender equality in the Italian electoral reform; a theme, this of the national political elections, that would probably be appropriate to re-propose here in the Senate. Meanwhile, in the individual countries of the European Union we can see that there are different quota systems in the internal electoral systems; the main distinction is between the voluntary quotas of the parties and the constitutional or legislative quotas. In some countries quotas are applied as temporary measures, but most countries have not set time limits. Ultimately, there are not many countries that have introduced gender quotas into national legislation; instead, there are many European countries in which parties have adopted an internal regulation on gender equality. These countries can be broken down by group according to the type of corrective measures in the reference context. There are states in which constitutional quotas are present or in the electoral law (they are therefore tax laws): of this group are part Belgium, France, Greece, Portugal, Slovenia and Spain; then there are countries in which quotas are carried out spontaneously by some political parties (volunteers' quotas): it is the largest group, with Austria, Cyprus, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden and Hungary; finally, there are countries in which no corrective measures are envisaged, such as Denmark, Bulgaria, Estonia, Finland and Latvia. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the reform of the European elections, I would like to repeat - as some Members have already pointed out in this House - that before we come to the amendment of the electoral law, we should concentrate our efforts in a different direction, while remaining in the same area. I mean that, before it is a regulatory issue, that of gender equality is a cultural problem in Italy. There is evidence of this that only four nations in Europe have a European electoral law which requires gender representation. Despite this, the presence of women in the European Parliament is very strong. It is certainly the result of an important cultural dialectic on the presence of women in elective assemblies; a virtuous mentality that has produced in different European countries, and in a almost natural way, a equality between the sexes both in social life and in the more specifically political one. The presence of these women on the lists is not the result of preferential lanes, but of democratic agreements made within the lists themselves and in the parties, where therefore access is not by gender, but by competence and political capacity. This is what happens when a nation reaches the cultural level of social equality I was talking about before. In the meantime, despite what has been said, we are here discussing reforms and rules; reforms that have not been made so far and which we probably do not even go through with this measure. But at the same time, this must require us to think about the near future when we have the opportunity to write the new rules of this law: fairer legislation for voters and more useful already for the next European electoral round after that of 2014. Therefore - and I shall conclude, Madam President - we must all have the courage to think about the future and not to make mistakes today. Perhaps, indeed, we should have been working on this whole subject for a long time. On the other hand, the dates of the European elections are always widely scheduled and allow ample possibilities to work well already years before, avoiding the paradox of reaching these last weeks that now separate us from the elections with intellectual breath and with the anxiety of the times for unlikely reforms. And let's say without fear that in the past it has allowed itself to flow too much time without thinking about the reforms that today is trying to push in too much haste, while now we run the risk of reaching incomplete solutions, so no solutions, which in reality would not be either final or mature. I insist that, if you want to change the rules while you are on the road, the risk is to stumble into imprecise and useless norms, because serious reform work will have to be done in the right times and with the contribution of all, with intellectual honesty and clear objectives and as much as possible shared, all combined with an attitude free from all forms of worn-out masculinism and misleading feminism. Therefore, bearing in mind the principle and therefore our commitment to a law that is appropriate for a fair representation of women in the European elections, at the same time I believe that it is a mistake to make changes to it now. In fact, we have such a delicate theme in our hands that it shows us the wise opportunity to return to it in the right times, so that we can reach a definitive solution with the proper serenity of spirit and sharing, also to avoid the risks that I first feared. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u38	Madam President, senators and senators, one of the principals of the democratic game is not to change the rules in the race. This is the basic point on which the New Right Centre places its attention in relation to the measure it is dealing with. When you change the rules in the race, you never know whether or not this will benefit the measure that is the subject of attention; you certainly know that it does not benefit the very rules of democracy. Legal certainty at the time of the operation is absolutely necessary. You know that, there are other areas where the abuse of changing rules during the game - if I can use this jargon - has brought serious damage. I remember that many years ago, in a field very different from this, but just as essential, such as the fiscal one (another of the great democratic rules and democracy), we reached the statute of the taxpayer, which provided absolutely for the irretroactivity of the tax rules. Too many times this has been violated, and always with serious damage to democracy. If the tax pact is essential, it is even more important for the electoral pact. We are at the very foundation of the rules of democracy. Therefore, it is quite clear that the fact of changing for these elections, while everything is already in motion for the same, when the lists may already have been prepared by one or more political formations, would result in a vulnus to the rules of democratic play. These rules are so close to my heart, and so dear to my party, that we are consistently and decisively affirming this principle. It seems to us, therefore, that the new rules that Parliament may be able to apply can only be applied from the next European electoral round compared to that of 25 May: I think it is absolutely necessary to put a stop to this. I therefore believe that it is useful for Parliament to make it absolutely clear that the new rules can only apply from the start, not from the electoral round that I can well define in progress, but from the next electoral round. This principle is crucial. My party, however, is a political force. A political force that understands the needs of the moment, which understands how the issue of gender equality today is a fundamental issue in electoral matters, as it was in the other House during the debate on the electoral law for national elections (if I can smile for a moment, this Senate always deals with the events of the entire Parliament, and takes this into account: it is not accustomed to not dealing with the other branch of Parliament, it deals with it and takes account of it, as it should be). Therefore, our party believes that, without prejudice to the indefatigable application of the above-mentioned rule, that is, that the rules can only apply from the next elections, one can think, as an element of mediation, of the idea of affirming the need for gender equality when all three preferences are expressed. This is an effort that my party is making to meet the needs of other political forces and to meet the importance of the issue, which - I repeat - has already been stressed several times, in this and in the other branches of Parliament. We therefore believe that mediation is useful to affirm a principle of a strictly constitutional nature, which is that of the irretroactivity of the electoral rules, but which also serves to meet the political needs that a party obviously can and must take into account. Our position therefore seems to us a position of absolute common sense, and we also rely on the reflection of all other political forces, because our proposal to reconcile a rigid constitutional principle with the political flexibility with which the rules are adopted seems to be an effort to be taken into account and on which to think carefully. In conclusion, Madam President, I therefore think that our position is of an absolutely constructive nature: great rigidity in the application of the rules, which always applies to us, to each of the fundamental rules of democracy, but also to the need to take account of political needs. Our proposal is a proposal that can be taken into account. We do not believe that we should and cannot go beyond this, because nothing can make us adhere to a vulnus, of a constitutional nature - I repeat - of a vulnus. That is why, Madam President, our very clear position, which I have expressed, I believe can be an element of discussion and approval, which together represents a clear position on principles and flexible in political life. [[Senator Dalla Tor's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u39	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u40	Madam President, not to bring the debate back, but I want to start with the title of this measure, which talks about the promotion of gender balance in political representation in elections for the European Parliament. In the title there are two fundamental expressions: gender balance and political representation. I start from here, because the real novelty, the key to reading and the objective to be set are precisely in the inseparable of these two expressions: there can be no political representation if there is no gender balance. In these days, during these sessions, but also in the external debate, terms that have profoundly different values, meanings and objectives have been used interchangeably. There has been talk of gender quotas and representation as if they were the same thing: the instruments have been confused, that is, the quotas, with the end, which is instead political representation. And when I say "political representation," I speak of democracy, which is either equal, or is not. If democracy is not equal, political representation and democracy are somehow imperfect. This is an imperfection not only in form, but above all in substance, because that of equal democracy is a matter of quality and strength of democracy, it is not a right for women, it is not a kind concession to the demands of us women, because equal demand is not a claim for corporate representation: on the contrary, it is the coherent implementation of a vision of democracy in which all citizens and all citizens must be able to enjoy the same right to count, vote and have the same equal opportunity to be elected. The equal presence of men and women measures democracy in its capacity to be inclusive, that is, capable of building an authentic link with the lives of people and, therefore, of being effective in the government of the country. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen, and not a few more chairs for women. There is talk of efficiency and really inclusive democracy in contact with the country. This battle, among other things, now has a twenty-year history; a battle fortunately shared also by so many men and I hope that here too, beyond the things that are often felt, there is the possibility of an attention and confrontation that really exceed the particularisms and the closures. Today we are in a political, institutional and cultural situation that has the ambition to reform this country, starting from its political system. In this sense, equal reform is a fundamental aspect of the political system, an aspect - I insist - of the democratic order that must be extended to all and not only - I say this to myself - to a single party. It is a cause of citizenship: that is what this is about. Words have an important meaning and we must not be confused about them. I also appeal to the media that use the expression "pinkquote" interchangeably whenever it is anything else. Equal democracy is a matter of political justice. In recent days I have read an interesting article by Chiara Saraceno, which states that it is a mistake to speak of pink "quote" whenever you try to scratch the male monopoly (because exactly this is a matter) and to reduce the blue "quote" that many men, and even some women, continue to believe a natural divine right in all places of power. I think it would be much more appropriate to talk about anti-monopoly rules that prevent the formation of a sex-based cartel; that is the true fact. It would perhaps be clearer and many women would stop feeling guilty or feeling like panda when they ask for a correction to this male monopoly cartel. The category proposed instrumentally as self-protected is not that of women, but that of men, who have managed to make their presence pass as obvious and unilateral, while that of us women always seems the result of an undue usurpation and not of mechanisms that must allow us to run on equal. It makes me smile thinking about the merit that is always mentioned when talking about women, which is generally used not with reference to a category that lives in a concrete and everyday way in the political world, but is used only when one has to say: "Yes, women, however, must have the merit." The truth, as colleagues and colleagues also said, is that women in politics, as in work, participate in races with a handicap. It's not just the double job and all the things we've said to each other. In the elections, for example, if women are elected, their share will not depend on the willingness of women themselves or on the willingness of voters to vote for them, but will increasingly depend on mechanisms that arise originally with choices of non-inclusivity. So far, I have talked about gender equality, and I have therefore referred to 50%, as Article 51 of our Constitution says, namely, the promotion of equal opportunities by means of appropriate measures. It is clear that these specific measures are necessary because it is clear that equality is not, unfortunately, self-evident. Among other things, speaking simply of quotas, we must remember that many countries have adopted this means (and I insist that it is a means and not an end). Others, such as France and Belgium, have gone further and dealt with the issue of equality of 50%. I want to conclude with a reflection. Two years ago the law n. 120 of 2011, known as the Golfo-Mosca law, was passed, which imposes the presence of women on the boards of directors and in the union colleges of the public participating companies. This law has increased the representation of women in boards, in fact today 17% of council members are occupied by women (in 2011 it was only 7.4 percent) and in 198 companies at least one woman sits on the board of directors (135 at the end of 2011). Law No 120 of 2011 introduced the temporary obligation of gender representation, which corresponds to 20% for the first mandate and 33% for the next two mandates: a real revolution. Finland is already 27 percent, Sweden 25%, and France 22%. Some wondered how many years it would take to reach the current percentage of women on the boards of directors in the absence of this law: it was calculated that it would take at least sixty years to reach that 33%, which instead was achieved in just three years. The quotas, which - I repeat - are an instrument and not the end, were essential, because they represented a shock, an extraordinary instrument to break down a consolidated balance over the years, old. The importance of a mechanism that can really allow men and women to be selected, with awareness of the increase in quality for all, when this presence is guaranteed. The law on quotas on the boards of directors is introducing a critical mass of women in our country in decision-making places that is proving decisive in the processes of change. Let me make a joke. A few weeks ago I read, going back to the origins of the financial and economic crisis, that a group of economists asked fellow men: if instead of Lehman Brothers there had been a Lehman Sisters, would we have the same level of crisis or not? One of the answers, not the only one but the most shared, was that there would be no such level of crisis. This is because, also in politics and in the economy, women bring differences, a different way that, only if crossed, can really give good governance; women are more thrifty, more prudent and less unscrupulous, they seek not the result immediately, but invest on a longer result over time. In this regard there is an important study of the University of Milan. There has been a very different approach: men know more about competitiveness, women know more about responsibility; and these two things serve both, they are an extraordinary instrument that should also be present in institutional places, where it is decided. It is now demonstrated in all the researches and realities that, where there are more women, there is more sustainable economic growth, because there is more care than the organization. That attention that Lehman Brothers missed, for example. When there are more women in politics, even in institutional fora, whether they are local or national, there is a different focus, a cure that means an ability to grasp the point of view, the needs of all citizens, therefore that inclusive policy that really is an important element. We are talking about the electoral law for the European Parliament. Europe is our home, our community, our horizon. We know how much European policies are likely to affect and affect the lives of all of us, but in order to be effective and inclusive, we need to be able to have - and in this way Italy can and must make a difference - a representation that takes into account the fact that there is the life of men and the life of women, different views and different needs that, only if cross-referenced, can give all European and national policies efficiency and effectiveness. I spoke of inclusive politics and democracy. One of the great difficulties and reasons on which the distance between citizens and politics is based today, between citizens and institutions, is that citizens do not feel that they count for this state, they do not feel the care of politics towards them, that there is only when policies respond not to the individual subjectivity, but to the subjectivity of genders. We have an important opportunity. I understand all the reasons and technicalities; I understand that there are, in politics and in the institutions of the moments - unfortunately there are always too many - in which the problems are approached on the basis of the small party selfishness or of the small realities that pertain to the interest of that moment; but the challenge we face, what you must and must face all, is to think of a today that has the ability to expand into a tomorrow in which the institutions are closer to the citizens and able to give concrete answers. We have an extraordinary opportunity and I hope that the courage to leave - I repeat - the individual, small individual and party egoisms will find instead an answer that can really make the difference for Italy and Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u41	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u42	Madam President, Senator Bruno took a look at the Commission' s course of the text when we examined it, which gives the measure of how some of the aspects discussed present elements of clear problematicity in terms, in some respects, of time and, in others, of content. Of course, in this case, the Commission's work has taken into account the different sensitivities which have been expressed and which have also been expressed in the various draft laws of which the rapporteur, whom I thank for the very complex work that she has been asked to do and which she has fulfilled in a very good way, felt that she preferred the text which most reflected the feeling of the minority. I must say that my considerations - I confess that what I will do from now on are more personal than in representation of the movement that expresses me - start from the assumption, in some ways remote, that it leads me to say that the expressions "rebalance of gender" and "pinkquote" have been interpreted in a limited way many times, too many times. This legislation makes it playful, because little is the time at its disposal, since on 25 May it is approaching and that the 1979 law has been several times, and with different levels of intensity, rethought, discussed and, in some ways, rethought. In this sense, it had made the choice - I would say now certainly no longer relevant - which referred to the impact of the lack of gender balance on public funding for parties that had participated in the electoral contests. Moreover, it is absolutely clear that a text like this, although - I repeat - in its limited temporal but also contentistic nature, and therefore clearly conceptual with respect above all to the elections that are approaching more and more quickly, can be subjected to a certain cross-cutting evaluation - we have also seen it in the course of the Commission's work - compared to a different assessment of the percentage incidence of the rebalancing of gender representation, which can therefore lead to the formation of a consensus that goes beyond ideological and party fences. We cannot forget, however, that it is a text that calls into question fundamental principles and rights - such as non-discrimination of gender and, therefore, the need for a rebalancing of men and women in the lists of candidates for the upcoming European elections and the composition of the new European Parliament - and that it must also take into account the need not to rebalance the balance. I apologise for this last statement, which may seem on principle a little rough if not further articulated, but I will try to be clearer in the following. As I said, this legislation - in my opinion, in a way that is too rapid - identifies a path that is a bit too critical, even in sharing, as far as I am concerned and, in this case, as far as the movement that expresses itself is concerned, of the final objective of guaranteeing women's access to political positions. This is an agility that must not be forceful, forced and excessively subjected to a geometry of representation and merit. As I said, I must confess - and, in some ways, place as a premise to this intervention - an antipathy and a deep suspicion especially with respect to the expression "pinkquote," which I do not love at all. I do not like this expression so much and not just because my liberal instinct makes me distrust any constraint on the political representation and freedom of voters to express their vote in an absolutely spontaneous and unbounded way (because a constraint would also be the imposition of a strict gender percentage mapping in the Strasbourg Assembly), but because, being the above expression too simplistic, it risks being too often lying. What I think should inspire our work here and always, with reference to gender representation, is the principle of so-called positive actions, i.e. a plurality of interventions - not just one or a quotistic approach - in support of such representation, which cannot be exhausted in a simple bureaucratic imposition of percentage. I do not hide that - as has rightly been pointed out in the previous speeches - it must be said that the text that we are examining today, being based on the manifestation of preferences (three in this case, as evidenced by Law No 18 of 1979), is very different from the mandatory indication of an equal number of MEPs women and men. On the other hand, it involves a quotation in the composition of the lists, which, as has been clearly pointed out by many of the previous speeches, risks creating serious problems for those lists that had already begun to collect signatures with compositions that did not correspond to the balances required by this legislation. These problems, as Senator Bruno recalled, have not only been highlighted very clearly by us Commissioners in the debate produced by our Commission, which is the 1st, but have also been reiterated by the Government and, ultimately, by a statement by the Undersecretary Bocci. What we must therefore keep as a priority reference now is the offer to the citizen. The meritorious intention of the law is to give an extra chance to women, who are still under-represented, this is certain: it is under-represented in particular on the lists for political elections and for the European Parliament. The lack of representation is reduced with reference to the local elections, but this highlights the assumption that before I proposed - and I apologise for giving reason on my own - regarding the need not only to give a quotistic interpretation to the rebalancing of gender, but also to take into account other elements, which have a much deeper matrix (cultural and, in some ways, economic and also social) in the difficulty often for women to access the electoral competitions and above all to manage, perhaps after accessing it, the complicated logistics in playing the role. As far as I am concerned, the identification of a balanced gender representation must be an opportunity, not a coercion of the electorate to the choice, or even an electoral oxymoron that does not reward, indeed hides - and it is a pity - the quality and merit of the subjects who profited from the reserved quotas. The intervention of gender rebalancing must never translate - as I said before - into discrimination on the contrary, because it is true that positive actions are grounded in Article 3 of the Constitution, second paragraph, that is, in the prohibition of treating unequal situations, therefore in the obligation to treat unequal situations; it is equally true, however, that there is a first paragraph of Article 3, which requires compliance with the principle of formal equality, in order to avoid discrimination on the contrary. The issue has been well dealt with by the Constitutional Court, with a somewhat restrictive approach and, in part, not yet overcome: by its judgment No 422 of 1995, it has established that positive actions must be intended to achieve a result - as I stress - not a direct and immediate realization of the result itself, as could be achieved through the organisation of quotas not well managed. The Court at the time specified (this is very interesting for me, ladies and gentlemen, because it affirms a principle that I consider extremely significant in the interpretation of gender rebalancing) that the best measure to ensure the result of gender balance would be to implement it through the statute of parties or influence the system, at the time, of financing them (the latter hypothesis, as is known, no longer practicable). Therefore, the Constitutional Court - and the subject is still topical - demands mechanisms that encourage gender representation, but do not impose it. It does not escape me that, in a context - I said before - where preferences are covered, the prediction of gender quotas in the lists does not determine the coincidence between candidacy and eligibility; but it remains the principle of the need not to exceed in the approach of constraints to the manifestation of preferences, imposing excessively cumbersome and therefore limiting modes or automations. for the voters but also for the elected. Let me explain with an example (and this is the most articulate statement of the statement by principle that I mentioned earlier). Even in recent days we have heard many opinions for and against the pink quotas, especially with regard to the electoral law that will have to regulate the general elections. The ways of the United States, referred to as the cradle of all civil battles against discrimination against women, have been evoked, even with elegiac terms and expressions. But precisely in the United States the pink quotas, just as we are declining them and intending here and now, do not exist. In political life there is no legal link of gender or other nature, also because it would be considered discriminatory to the contrary, as I mentioned earlier, by the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. On the contrary, the numbers of politics in America actually present a gender imbalance: only 20 senators out of 100 senatorial seats are present; in Congress the representatives are 18% of the Assembly; in individual states only 74 executive roles out of 318 are women; and only 5 out of 50 states are women. Of course I am not indicating these numbers and these data as best practice, I am only asserting an objective principle: it is a fact that in the United States women (and minorities in general) have made enormous progress, but not thanks to quotas. This is due to what is commonly referred to as positive discrimination in America: women must be encouraged in practice, on equal merits, both in the public and in the private sector. In addition, serious sanctions are provided for those who engage in discriminatory behavior: for example, a company that has made an recruitment by discriminating a candidate to hire a candidate may no longer be able to work with state or federal bodies. This is just one example, and so many others could do so. These are the positive discriminations, which do not have a quotistic approach, but genuine gender rebalancing. I have made this premise in order to say that the measure we are discussing (and I repeat once again that the principle is favourable to us) highlights a fundamental disparity that belongs also to other developed countries, and that can only be resolved if, alongside specific measures such as today's, other proactive forms are developed: non-binding sector regulation (the so-called soft law, which is typical of positive actions in the Anglo-American system), gender incentives, cultural promotion, dissemination of open and non-discriminatory behaviour. In short, a set of assertive mechanisms to enhance a balanced representation of gender, but above all the right of access to positions of political importance (also sub-lines of political importance, as well as in the world of economy, high bureaucracy or university: in governance roles, governance also in society, not only in politics) that do not derive from an external imposition, mathematics, geometric or predefined schemes, but that make it less difficult to assert itself on the part of those who still suffer in society of a minor or insufficient representation. Otherwise (and this is an entirely personal opinion), if we were merely short-sighted advocates of predetermined social engineering, we would end up being guilty of discrimination on the contrary, and, as women, of an excess manslaughter of self-defense. For all this I am convinced that, beyond the rules of law, in particular those we are about to vote on, the possibility of success of a policy and a culture of women's promotion in key roles can derive rather from the internal organizational statutes of parties, movements, parliamentary groups, codes of conduct and ethics, in short, from non-binding indications, ethical codes, political recommendations, changing customs, which I defined as soft law: principles and criteria, not so much or not only binding laws. In fact, what can motivate us to marry the thesis behind this regulation? What can lead us to overcome the doubts about limiting the offer of political representation? It is precisely the consideration that we are faced not with a bond, but with a reasonable and reasoned rebalancing. Our positive assessment must be based on practical considerations. Here, too, our liberal soul, who observes reality and is pragmatic, is helping us. We have taken stock of what has happened since the introduction of Law No 120 of 12 July 2011, for the boards of directors of publicly listed and participating companies. We are not excited at all, or better to say (again I have to speak to the singular) I am not and have not been absolutely enthusiastic about that principle: in a perfect, ideal world, there would have been no need for it. Realistically, however, I recognise its beneficial effects in the sense of greater competition according to merit and a general positive renewal of governance structures. But, be careful, other are the governance structures, another is governance; another is an administrator, another is a CEO. We need to think about this, about a set of positive actions, about a set of positive discrimination that goes beyond and is more effective than the quotistic approach. In addition, we want to meet the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 4 July last, which calls on the Member States and political parties to - as much as possible - insist on a greater presence of women on the list of candidates and, as far as possible, to encourage (underline the words 'as far as possible') the drawing-up of lists guaranteeing equal representation, lists, not quotas of preference, convinced, however, as they are, that the example of Finland and Sweden, with their national representation in the European Parliament as a majority of women, is not in itself an absolute positive model, but the positive demonstration of the existence of non-discriminatory societies towards women, and that this is the result of a historical and cultural maturity that is achieved not only by law, but through a complete cultural revolution in which all men and women, we must be and must feel committed. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the absolute and convinced respect for the positions of colleagues who have been carrying out - in some cases even for years - the battle for equal access, not only to political positions, I cannot escape two critical remarks. Firstly, to intervene now on lists whose signature collection process is already underway risks producing viral and contentious effects (we have also heard it in the previous speeches: these are recurrent considerations) on the entire electoral process; a risk that we cannot afford to take. Second critical summary consideration: I believe that the purpose of gender rebalancing is right, indeed sacrosanct, but that the instrument chosen to achieve it must be calibrated with reasonableness and without excessively impositive accents. In this I am encouraged by the main European experiences, which have shown that an uncritical application of reserved quotas does not guarantee a sufficient and satisfactory affirmation of the true - I stress true - participation of women. The very recent and astonishing rejection of the resolution on gender equality in the European Union - mentioned by my colleague, Mr Gasparri - by the Parliament in Strasbourg just a few days ago (exactly contradictory to the Community address I mentioned earlier) shows that a too ideological and too unfair approach to the right issues of non-discrimination and equal access can become for women a shirt in Nesso, or rather shows that, in search of a just cause with a wrong instrument, there is a risk of tearing off the path of good reasons for gender equality. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u43	We greet the students of the State Institute "Giuseppe Cerabona" in Marconia di Pisticci, in the province of Matera. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u44	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to go too far in my speech on the vexed question of equal opportunities for men and women and whether this principle of equal opportunities has been achieved so far. I merely highlight some things that are quite strange in the only article that the rapporteur has proposed to us, and that I sincerely find it hard to identify, unless there are reasons, unconfessed and not yet written, within the text. I can certainly agree with the fact that at the time of the presentation of the list candidates of the same sex cannot exceed half, but I cannot understand the sense of predicting what is written immediately after, namely that in the list order the first two candidates must be of different sex. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether it makes sense to envisage this alternation of candidates of different sex in the list hat, in an electoral system, such as the one that presides over the elections of the European parliamentarians, in which citizens are called to elect their representatives with the system of preference, or rather of triple preference. In other words, we are not talking here about a system of submitting applications to blocked lists, where reuniting before or after can lead to important consequences in relation to the probability of election. Here, on the contrary, as is right, we move in the context of the maximum choice given to electoral citizens, who can choose their candidates and vote on them by writing their names. So it is completely superfluous, if not incomprehensible, this reference to the gender alternation of candidates for the first two places; unless this rule wants to conceal a subsequent attempt, in a way that I cannot well understand, to open a gap at the entrance of the lists blocked also in the system for the European elections. It would indeed be a very serious matter, at a time when citizens are strongly demanding full freedom in the choice of their representatives. Similarly, they are critical of the text of paragraph c) of Article 1 of the draft law, where it is expected that in the event that the voter expresses more preferences, they should apply forcefully to candidates of different sex, subject to the annulment of the second and third preference. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in this forecast I find pervasiveness on the part of the legislator, namely the State, which is certainly not in line with the most liberal tradition I intend to represent. I was helped by the memory of a reading I had a few years ago. I refer to the book "Freedom and the Law" by Bruno Leoni. We have reached the point where a state, through the legislator, claims even to condition the free expression of the elector, so that if the elector does not bend to this authoritarian imposition, the very expression of the preferred vote expressed by the citizen disappears. I do not want to talk about this for a long time, but I would like to remind them that we are not the owners of individuals or the tyrants of citizens and voters and that in a state such as the one within this rule, which makes it compulsory for the electorate to move towards a distinct gender preference, I see a pervasiveness and violence that is difficult to reconcile with the free exercise of the vote in a parliamentary democracy. Bruno Leoni himself informed us that the distortion in the pervasive state is the creation of special rules. In our state, for example, legislation prevails over law. In the relationship between the citizen and the state we have even the administrative law that takes over the civil code. That is to say, this state claims to lay down rules and impose them on its citizens subjects that the citizens themselves, being able to choose freely, would never have given themselves to regulate their relations. It is useless then that we are talking about revolution, about the destruction of this state, about reforms, about having to turn like a sock a bureaucratic state, boiled, inefficient, inadequate, very expensive and that moreover goes to harm the negative freedoms, that is those unavailable freedoms that belong to the citizen and that, precisely, cannot and must not be in the availability of any authority, including State. I therefore believe that the rapporteur of this law has a very questionable idea of the state. The state cannot and must not indicate to the voters the sign of its choice, the sign of its preference. I realize that in a country that has voted with Porcellum, so the secretariats of the parties have made lists, sending us all to this House (but not all of us are of the same sign), we are not surprised, nor has anyone so far been concerned to wonder whether this rule, which even obliges us to choose between different sexes, is compatible with the right, with the freedom of the citizen to choose his representative in the European Parliament. So, Senator colleagues, what freedom and what equalization between men and women are you talking about if in this text, in your turn, in the name of gender equality, you want to be maramalde over the citizen, who must be forced, under penalty of the nullity of his vote, to give you necessarily preference? From what obligation, from what taxation can a greater and better exercise of freedom come? Well then, as Senator Comrade taught me, equality of opportunities, which is the principle of liberalism; but equality of outcomes is socialism, it is statism, it is the imposition of a society in which the State replaces itself, demeaning and bending the freedoms of citizens. That is why I do not like this law; that is why it is written badly; that is why it will not have my vow at all. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u46	Senator Alberti Casellati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u47	Madam President, Senators, this bill arrives in the Chamber after the debate in the House on gender representation for electoral law. I think it is a lucky coincidence, because it gives us the opportunity to confront ourselves with completeness, but also with frankness, on a very heartfelt theme. I would first like to stress that we are talking about two very different issues - namely the electoral law passed in the House and the one under discussion in the Senate today - and absolutely not superimposed. What we are discussing today is not a question of quotas - it must be clear - but a question of active measures. It is not a question of women, but of representative democracy, all the more necessary at a time of serious difficulty that affects our country in the relations between citizens and institutions. I think this measure is appropriate, because it is an appreciable aid for the objectives of recognizing the role of women in society and - I say this - also in that part of society which is perhaps the most reluctant to recognize this role, that is, political representation. It is a measure - I always say this for clarity, because it seems to me that there are many ambiguities on this point - that seeks to restore the conditions of equality of origin, conditions that are guaranteed for one sex as well as the other. So, I say, no guarantee of results; in other words, that at the finish line the best win, but that they are all - and I say all, men and women - on the same line of departure because today is not so. Rules such as these - and I would like to address those who have spoken before me - do not alter the electoral outcome at all; they retain its randomness and build a mechanism that is not restrictive, but only promotional, in the spirit of constitutional provisions. They are therefore effective and tried solutions, which have the substance of the laws of constitutional implementation. I make this necessary premise, not of course, in order to divert the attention of the general debate that is taking place, but only in order to avoid exploitations which would not honour the legislative commitment of this House. Yet in these days it has been said from many quarters - putting in place almost monothematic reasoning - that these instruments do not reward meritocracy. Awarding meritocracy is something that makes everyone agree, but in this reasoning there is something that doesn't fit me. So I ask myself: what does meritocracy mean? Given the numbers of male presences and female presences, does it mean that only a few women deserve important places? Does meritocracy mean that the people who flock to the larger and more important institutions and fields of society are all capable or are at least more capable? I do not believe that in our society this is the representation or projection of meritocracy, especially since in public competitions statistics tell us that it is women who achieve the best results, as well as in schools and universities. If, therefore, political participation were determined by competition, we would have a Parliament almost exclusively for women. I say this not as a provocation, but as an observation. If, therefore, there are still few women who arrive, compared to the many, many, who crowd the tapes of departure, this means that the many paths that our society organizes are all littered with prejudices, leghold traps and obstacles, which burn expectations, potentialities and hopes. This is a crime all the more intolerable the more the awareness of equality is entering the consciousness of the younger generations. The "poor" presence of women is a long-term oversight, which has allowed the public to interpret the threshold as a boundary between male and female. We must realise that the issue of equality is a question that shakes the foundations of a democratic and free society. We can only talk about participatory democracy when there is a real link between democracy and representation. There is no democracy where women make up 52% of the population and have 25% representation in institutions. There is no democracy where there is a fracture between society and institutions. There is no democracy where a society fails to take decisions, decisions and responsibilities in an equal way. So I ask myself: how can we improve this situation again? [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u48	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to lower your voice a little bit.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u49	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Can this be done by means of a measure such as the one we are debating today? Well, I have to say, you could do without it if you guaranteed a real equal opportunity to participate in political life. Of course, one could say that it repels from a cultural point of view that we can arrive at a sort of electoral engineering mechanism to allow women to enter the elective positions, through the construction of an equal basis of departure; but, if this is the only way to get women into society, institutions, politics, I say: well come. We are well aware that technical skills are not enough for women, because women must always show that they deserve places which men often think they are entitled to. So this measure is a legal corrective to the inequality of access to political representation and it simply wants to express the ability of a people to become a free community and as a democratic community. For our society, women are a resource to be used, but it must be used in the spirit of a story that I would like to repeat here. Three boys find a violin; they go to the judge and ask him who can keep it. The first one says, "The violin belongs to me because I have nothing." He says the second: "The violin belongs to me because I worked to produce it." But the third distracts everyone by saying: The violin belongs to me because I'm the only one who can play it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u51	Madam President, I think it is symbolically a good hope that a President will give us the floor right now. In view of this road that should accompany us so that this measure can give rise to a result suitable to all needs, I cannot deny that from the tactical-strategic dimension, which in any case underlies the measure under discussion, I would instead like to go back, through substantial questions, to an intrinsic foundation, dare I say of political philosophy, which gives a reason to our vote; otherwise everything, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, is reduced to choices dictated simply by the contingency of opportunities or political exploitation. Can obstacles to women's access to the top positions of society be removed by legislative measures, such as the one under discussion in the Senate today? Another question: isn't gender rebalancing in the electoral system the consequence of a controversial and contradictory culture, which still characterizes our history, our society? Synthetically, we could say that measures that recognise gender equality balance are transitional but indispensable in the short term. These arguments, these reasons, however, do not entirely satisfy us, as they do not exhaust the fundamental question. I think it is most appropriate then to draw our attention to the Constitution and, first and foremost, to Article 3, which reads as follows in the first paragraph: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, regardless of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." The second paragraph, certainly not of minor importance, states: "It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country." After the theoretical affirmation, therefore, in Article 3 of the principle of equality, the Constituent, in the second paragraph, wanted to descend into the concrete reality in which unfortunately many are the factors of inequality among citizens. The principle of equality is the key principle of our Constitution and the criterion that conditions the interpretation of the entire legal system, just look at Article 51 of the Constitution. It is not by chance that Article 3 represents one of the most invoked standard rules in the judgments of constitutional legitimacy before the Supreme Court; if, therefore, the first paragraph establishes the principle of formal equality that guarantees equal dignity and treatment to all citizens before the law, the second paragraph requires the State to intervene in order to try to achieve substantial equality. Hence, dialectic is essentially between formal equality and substantial equality. Therefore, the question once again to be asked is: does the declamation of the principle of formal equality correspond in reality to substantial equality? If we have not achieved substantial equality, if and how do we intervene? I think that is the question that must guide us in the decision to vote on this measure. However, there is still another question, which I would dare say earlier, which comes first: the gender equality imposed by the norm, so that formal equality is also substantial, could it not be, paradoxically, discriminating? This is a critical issue that I believe we must face. The criticism that is directed to the recognition by law of gender balance is, in summary, the following: individual freedom and merit are ignored and the task of regulating, bureaucratically, social life and its institutional representations is assigned to a rule. Therefore, using the term "gender balance" means essentially identifying and quantifying the negation of that social elevator - as has been defined by some - which is based on freedom. In other words, the recognition of balance refers, in some people's opinion, to democratism, which is different from liberal democracy, and to egalitarianism, which is another thing compared to equal opportunities, supported by certain streams of thought defined as liberals. For those who express themselves critically on gender equality, within the framework of the measure in question - and, in this case, in the context of the gender rebalancing of the measure in question - the vision of substantial equality shuns from the imposition from above, from constraints that affect, with dignity, the elementary freedom of those who want to favour. This could be the paradox. At this point, therefore, the question we ask ourselves directly and which helps us to give a definitive answer is even more burdensome: if different social, and therefore cultural, opportunities conculcate the same substantial equality, can and must the norm become a bulwark for equality, always substantial, to be recognized and protected? Can a cultural process of acceleration, in terms of gender balance, be derived from the norm at the most varied levels and in the most diverse areas? The answer can be nothing but positive, "defendative" I could say, not assertive, but argued according to reason. Gender balance is a sensitive topic all over the world, of course, and it has not yet been identified - we can certainly say this - as a way of overcoming inequalities. In order to achieve gender equality or, more correctly, gender balance, it is therefore essential to change a mindset, attitudes and, even more so, opportunities. In short, a culture that is really widespread, that formally recognizes and in the substance of the actions the ontological equality, which is the foundation of freedom and democracy. It is precisely in the ontological foundation of equality that we can revisit that reason, that motivation, those arguments that can justify a measure that tends to gender balance, in a law at European level that already finds in other nations limits and gender thresholds: the gender threshold is 50% in France and Belgium, 40% in Spain and 33.3% in Portugal. But starting from these data, which may seem aseptic, which do not refer to an anthropological and valuable foundation - we can say pre-political and social - of a culture that recognizes to women a principle of equality, I think one last aspect must be recalled, of which I obviously speak with a pinch of honor, since the Campania Region was the first to foresee the double gender preference for the election of its regional council, with the regional law of 27 March 2009, n. 4. I started my speech with a question and I want to finish it with a further question: are we perfectly satisfied? I believe that the principle of doubt must animate us, but the principle of doubt, in the ethical sphere, absolutely must be combined with another ethical principle, which is the precautionary principle. Following the precautionary principle, in this case, the value of substantial recognition, which has not succeeded in the formal recognition of equality, I believe it can lead us to a sharing, I must say temporary, for a measure that is not declined - Madam President, allow me - in a view of mere tacticism or mere strategy, because this would be an offense and a denial of the measure as such. [[Applause from the PI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u52	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate today, represented mainly by men, shows that it is without courage and, if I may, without character. Thus, once again, an opportunity has been lost on gender equality, even providing that only in the case of three preferences one should be of a different gender, which is far from equal representation in the institutions. We have a right, yet again we limit not so much gender equality, but a gender balance in the political representation of citizens in decision-making rooms. This mediation between the majority parties, which postpone the right choice to 2019, while they now take the most convenient choice, cannot see me as an accomplice. I do not approve of this policy. I believe in gender balance in political representation and I believe in it above all because of the undoubted value that women can bring to the country. I conclude by paraphrasing three slogans dear to the free thought of women: "Now" if not now when? "I'm not in." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u54	Madam President, the path of this bill has been grotesque. The intention was noble, because the Italian representation in the European Parliament sees the presence of women limited to 25%. That is, one woman is elected for every three men. In Europe we are in 22nd place. The Five Star Movement does not feel called into question, since we do not have a representation in the outgoing European Parliament. We are, however, the political force that elected the highest percentage of women in the Italian Parliament. So let's clear out any attempt at exploitation. Equal opportunity is a right: it is different if the freedom of choice of the elector is also affected; it is different if the composition of an elected Chamber is determined by law. Our representation in the Budget Commission is made up of women, and it is a strategic and vital Commission. Finland and Sweden in the European Parliament have elected more women than men: what do we do then? Do we modify the people's will? Do we move the members on the basis of a logic of balanced representation in an abstract sense, without assessing the merits? There are several women who claim that being elected only for the respect of a quota is not flattering: if we then also call them pink quota, it really becomes sexism. We understand the meaning of this bill, but we do not want to make us lose the horizon, we feel already beyond. We need to clear out hypocrisy. Two things have been written in the law on the financing of parties: firstly, that the party which does not guarantee representation on the lists at least 60% and 40% between the two sexes is penalised in terms of electoral refunds. That was the time to do more for gender equality, because we know that parties are sensitive to money. Secondly, every party to be entitled to electoral refunds must have a statute and include in it, for internal democracy, also the objective of aiming at equality. With this bill, however, we want to impose equality. That was the time to do it. That was the time, also because so we would have satisfied President Azzollini, who complains about retroactivity. Then, we would have done so in times not suspicious, effectively, by including this constraint in the statute of parties, because it is the parties that must self-regulate. Why don't they? They declare fine words that they do not maintain. We must then denounce another hypocrisy, the grotesque arm-wrestling that has inserted itself as a parasite in this bill. The parties thought well to turn this law into a battleground for electoral interests. The small parties suffer the electoral law of the duo Renzi-Berlusconi that obliges them to coalition and seek in Europe spaces of autonomous existence. PD and Forza Italia do not want to give up: they were counting on keeping low the votes of those who did not exceed the threshold, fearing moreover a possible contagion and the lowering of the thresholds also in the law for the Italian Parliament. So we witnessed a obstruction of the majority, with dozens of speeches in general discussion, slow, long as a watered down broth. The Senate has been paralyzed for almost a week waiting for the usual agreements, the usual market under the table. The women of the 5 Star Movement are ashamed of you. The men of the 5 Star Movement are ashamed of you. Now everything is agreed, it seems; perhaps we will see a rapid convergence on the amendments. We'll see about that. I close here, in these hours of theater we have reserved five minutes, but it is enough even less. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u55	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u56	Colleagues, I would like to inform you that tomorrow's afternoon sitting, on the agenda of the President of the Council of Ministers' communications with a view to the Brussels European Council of 20 and 21 March 2014, will begin at 4.30 p.m. instead of 4 p.m., in relation to the timetable for the same debate in the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u59	ZANONI (PD). Madam President, Senators, Senators, with the very recent ruling No 50 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court, has been declared the constitutional illegitimacy of the only rule that, after more than twenty years of legislative and administrative vacuum in Italy, has protected the rights of the housing of tenants of buildings for residential use, vexed and robbed of all good rights by landlords who rent such properties without granting or registering regular leases, also not honoring the relationship with their tenants of any crism of legality and escaping the fullness of taxation provided for by regular lease agreements. These are paragraphs 8 and 9 of Article 3 of Legislative Decree no. 23 of 14 March 2011. This rule, effectively countering the scourge of tax evasion of so-called rents in black, which provided for provisions on municipal fiscal federalism, also known as dry coupon, saw in these two paragraphs the possibility for tenants found to rent in black to regularize at the Agency of revenue their position, obtaining at the same time the payment of the due registration fee a regular lease, and in doing so, i.e. denouncing the submerged, allowing the emergence and recovery of large sums by the State, concluding with the latter a pact of legality. The pronunciation of illegitimacy of method - for excess of delegation - and not of merit, which also emphasizes in the judgment itself how much this norm is under many revolutionary profiles on the level of the current civilistic system, immediately opens two problems of absolute criticality: on the one hand, it leaves the matter of locations unscathed and at the mercy of the same, therefore, from the long-standing plague of the black, against which we lose an effective instrument; on the other, it dismisses the betrayal of the pact between State and citizen. Tens and tens of thousands are, according to the estimate of the Association of Social Promotion ACORN Italy, the taxpayers who have said enough to the lawlessness and who, trusting the State, have applied this decree. There is now a risk of a social tsunami: tens of thousands will be the lawsuits that will clog the court to sentence the release of real estate. We can not state to propose to the citizen a pact of legality, asking him to denounce the tax evader owner of his own house, and then leave him not only without the roof but, moreover, with the burden of compensation the evader. It is urgent to honor that covenant with the honest citizen, putting timely, indeed immediate, remedy to vulnus and vacuum created. It is urgent to immediately save the house, the legality and the face, instead of losing all three. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u62	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out here something that has been reported to me about the lack of transparency in the judicial auctions currently taking place in my Province. I welcome the call that has been made to me and I ask the attention of the competent authorities to ensure that they monitor and ascertain the situation. All this comes back to the moment of serious economic crisis that the whole country is experiencing, especially in the South and in my Province. As you will recall, in this House we talked about the desperate case of a gentleman in the city of Victoria who killed himself precisely because he was deprived of his home, who had not managed to finish paying. On that occasion also a representative of the Forces of the Order was wounded in an attempt to save him. Now another event is happening: a separate woman, with two dependent minors, will be deprived of her home, because she will undergo the executive eviction next Thursday, just because she failed to complete the payment of the mortgage. I was told that his house, which he had bought with his husband from whom he separated, was sold for very little money compared to his value and that the lady had to extinguish by now only a small sum. This news creates discomfort and throws families into despair. I repeat, it is a single woman with two dependent children, who, although that is her only home and her children are minor, is evicted. I therefore call on the competent authorities to ensure that this does not happen again, in order to preserve, first of all, the serenity of children and families who experience deep anxiety and concern, risk ever more dramatic consequences and to live traumas that will certainly have repercussions in their lives. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u65	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, only after the sinking of the Costa Concordia on the island of Giglio, has the policy been noticed that Venice and the lagoon were in danger for the transit of large ships. The solution was and is simple: the ships must dock out, in docks realized specially, and the passengers can arrive to the boarding with means compatible with the lagoon, without nothing to remove the charm of the crossing and the sight of Venice from the water, and without to penalize a section, indeed increasing the occupation of 12 percent. The politics, instead, has stubbornly searched for the usual solutions, to the detriment of the same companies and the same crocieristica, because these ships are not of the monsters: monstrous is, on the contrary, to want to bring them in the heart of the lagoon, especially when there exist solutions to low impact. On November 5, at Palazzo Chigi, the former president of the Letta Council, the ministers Lupi and Orlando, the mayor of Venice Orsoni, the president of the Ente porto Costa and the president of the Veneto Region Zaia met and agreed to exclude other solutions and point rights to the excavation of a channel, the Contorta channel, 5 kilometers long and 140 meters wide, and then insert this project in objective law to evade the EIA and VAS. They do it to bring the ships still inside the heart of the lagoon close to the historic center: really a twisted solution (watch case), with an expense of 150-170 million euros. So, in order to get this result, you are called the cards: I ask you for this measure, then you give me the decision of the Regional Council, so I can ask to insert the project into the objective law. This theorem was swept away with the agenda voted in January: we basically restored the conceptual order for which solutions are first compared and we start from the objectives, from what we can and must achieve, then we give a preference to this or that project. The other part of the theorem was wiped out recently by the sentence of the TAR which established that the decrees of quota of the transits arranged in anticipation of this fantomatic channel - of three years, it would be - are illegitimate. So we start from scratch and finally restore the order that politics must have: first the objectives, then the conditions, finally the projects. Minister Lupi and all that conciliation come out with broken bones: we celebrate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-211.ana.u67	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 19 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.57 p.m.
