ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1465. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate began. Senator Fravezzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u5	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, the decree-law we are about to convert is a first sign of attention to middle-low-income employees, i.e. those taxpayers who have always paid and paid taxes and who have suffered greatly from the effects of the economic crisis. Of course, the bonus will be extended, as laid down in an amendment that we adopted in the Commission this morning, in the next Stability Act. We trust, therefore, that the bonus will become stable and above all that it can also extend to other income groups, as well as to self-employed workers and in particular to single-income families with more dependent children. We are convinced that, in this way, greater social equity can be achieved. The decree-law, moreover, goes also to the enterprises thanks to the cut of the IRAP, that it will certainly become more incisive with the next decrees delegated in fiscal matter. In addition, the decree also addresses the issue of the rationalisation of public administration purchases, which is a key sector in order to manage to contain expenditure, and the backward payments of the public administration, with the forecast of additional 5 billion euros that come to add to the figures allocated in 2013. Therefore, the importance of this measure lies in the fact that it is not limited to taking responsibility for the economically weaker groups, but pursues a more general plan of redistribution of wealth through interventions that affect financial incomes and the reduction of public expenditure aimed at rationalising, containing and eliminating waste. Of course, some are the first steps and this action will need to be consolidated. Above all, it will be essential for a recovery to be resumed; a recovery which, however, does not only pass from Italy: it goes from European economic policies that are more in line with what was the signal in general that, at electoral level, arrived a few days ago on the occasion of 25 May. On this I was very pleased to hear what the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Padoan, said today, namely that it is essential to change the policies of the European Union, otherwise the future will be socially difficult. The Minister also said - this is the positive part that I would like to point out - that the climate is ripe for change and that there is also a strong focus on the proposals that Italy will make: in particular the next six months of the Presidency of the European Union will be the great opportunity to present proposals and to share them in the appropriate forums. However, the country's real problem is above all that of work. In fact, an industrialised country cannot afford unemployment levels like those that are suffocating our country today. We know that this is a wider problem, which affects the whole of Europe, and this must encourage us to seek every possible remedy, and above all to activate that reform process in the economic, social and institutional areas to which the Italian Parliament is called today. We must support the most exposed sectors of production, creating the most favourable environmental conditions. In our view, public administration reform, a strategic area for boosting growth, will be crucial in this respect. A modern state, in fact, must have the strength to plan its industrial policy, indicate the lines of development and abandon what is obsolete and not current in order to help convert production and start new investments in economically competitive sectors. Only in this way will it be possible to save employment and create new jobs. I feel obliged to thank both the President of the Azzollini Budget Commission and the President of the Marino Finance Commission for the good work that has been done; I also say this in the light of the speeches of some colleagues this morning, listening to which it seemed that the work in the Commission had not been inclusive; on the contrary, on this too, the Deputy Minister and the two Presidents have tried to take responsibility for the many amendments that we have tabled. In my opinion, the original text comes out of the Commissions and comes to this House substantially improved in many respects. Many rewordings have been made, which have improved the text also with respect to sensitive sectors, such as RAI, on which, in my opinion, a balanced solution has been found: RAI will have to play its part, but at the same time the value of public service in the territory has not been affected and the human resources that make up a large state company like this have not been touched. At the same time, several areas have improved. As a member of the Per le Autonomie Group, I am referring above all to the mechanisms and the contribution that the special self-governments will make to the consolidation of the state's accounts, without being unduly penalised on the revenue front. On this too, I would like to acknowledge the government's merit in having shown a strong attention to a concrete, fair and congruent instance that had been made present. Finally, the European Commission's judgment has also arrived on Sunday, and on this - since I have been invited to finish - I repeat that we could probably make other improvements in this direction, especially if our European partners will also engage in policies that are not just austerity, but that can return, at least in terms of investment, to give the opportunity to restart the public investment part, which we consider strategic for Europe to be seen as the parent company of the 500 million citizens that make up it. With this, advance also that on our part, by the Group For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, there is a substantial, full sharing of the decree. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u6	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister, the process of this decree has been suffered. For several days too many amendments have been made in depth and changes have been made by the Government, without removing stomachaches from many members of the majority. For us it is an irrational decree, that humiliates the public agencies, starting from the Municipalities, the Provinces and the Regions, since for the financial coverage, arrived to a third of the current exercise, therefore to commitments of expenditure already assumed, they are called to correct own budgets in order to guarantee to Prime Minister Renzi decisive savings of expenditure, that will inevitably translate, especially for the virtuous entities, that in the past have already made their own spending review, in greater taxes to families and enterprises or, in contrast, in cuts to public services, starting from health care, social assistance and local public transport. The decree under consideration from the beginning has been defined by us by the Group of the North League - but not only by us - the electoral spot wanted by Prime Minister Renzi, and so it has been. 41 percent achieved by the PD in the recent European elections confirmed this, even above the best expectations. The measure recognizes, but only for 2014 and for a total amount of 6.7 billion euros, a tax credit of 640 euros to employees who have an income less than 24,000 euros: it is the famous 80 euros in paycheck. As a second tax measure, approximately 10% of IRAP is expected to be reduced to companies, amounting to a total of 700 million. Measures, the two foretold, shareable, except for iniquity and cover. This decree is anything but fair, as announced by Renzi and his associates: it is an unjust and unbalanced provision. First of all, it does not provide for stable measures over time. In fact, the 80 euro bonus is only valid for eight months of this year, from May to December. The promise of a structural intervention to be implemented under the Stability Act for 2015 I fear will remain in vain, because there are no covers. Another critical issue: the bonus is given exclusively to those who have an employee income. Premier Renzi has totally neglected pensioners with the minimum, the incapients, the unemployed and the self-employed with low income and, be careful, those who have high deductions at gross tax level risk, next year, to return the bonus, as many employers are warning. Iniquity is also confirmed in cases of normal family situations. In a childless couple, where both husband and wife work and each have an income of 24,000 euros, both benefit from the 80 euros. In a single-income family, with wife and more dependent children and income over 26,000 euros, no benefit. In this regard, how can I not stress that the New Right Centre's attempt to introduce the correction for these families has been rejected in a way - let me say - ridiculous and humiliating for the proposers themselves? This proves not only that there is no more money and that the measure is without coverage, but also that in the majority the New Right Centre counts little. We come to the critical knot of the covers, that is: who pays Renzi's gift? We underline how a third is represented by one-off: 1.8 billion derive from the substitute tax on the revaluation of the shares of participation in the capital of the Bank of Italy, while 650 million are related to the forecast of greater VAT receipts related to the payment of debts of public administrations. Payment, the latter, that it is not automatic produces the estimated VAT revenue, because the companies could use the liquidity received to pay their suppliers, generating compensation effects, as also evidenced those bad guys of the officials of the Senate Budget Service. On the stable part of the savings coverage of 2.1 billion imposed per year on purchases of goods and services, to be achieved at different levels of government, we stress that territorial authorities, which have been drastically cut in recent years, are still heavily called upon to contribute. The regions are being asked for 700 million, 340 million from metropolitan cities and the distracted Provinces, still alive despite Delrio, which are being asked for an additional 100 million savings in the costs of politics. Also for 2014 is 360 million the demand for reduction of expenditure to the Municipalities, on which they weigh the already existing government cuts, in addition to the recent dispositions in the matter of TASI. In order to achieve spending savings, local authorities will have to retracing 5% with suppliers. A violation of the law for the latter, an illegitimacy, as Mr Di Biagio said, from which will certainly be born disputes. The only certainty is that in the end there will still be linear cuts. Also the 150 million cut to RAI already from the current year represents a tight entry on the programming of the year carried out by public television that, in addition to the sale of the quotas of RAI Way, owner of the antennas, risks seriously to dismantle the regional articulation. It is inevitable that the territorial offices, which are an important heritage of the public service, will be greatly reduced, if not even cut. Italians must therefore know that their fee will also be used to pay the 80 euros in paycheck. The cut imposed, functional to the emergency of Renzi, risks to affect a serious organic plan of reorganization and rationalization, of which RAI would really need, which should affect the real waste, that start, for example, from the hundreds of millions of euros spent on consulting and external contracts. To complete the game of the three tablets, how can we not remember, finally, the doubling of the costs of issuing the passport and the tax increase on the financial incomes from 20 to 26 percent? The consequences? Higher taxes also on the interest accrued from the current accounts of the families and the serious risk that many choose to invest in foreign financial assets, thus leading to a decrease of the revenues. We are convinced that the purpose of the bonus and therefore of the measure - namely the revival of consumption and domestic demand, in decline for years in Italy - will not be pursued: with one hand it is given, but only to one part of the citizens, and with the other they put to all more taxes, starting from the TASI, which is added to the IMU, and is still cut to the territorial authorities, and therefore reduce the services. Moreover - and all economists support it - a recovery of consumption, typical indicator of the economic situation of a country, is sustainable only if the measure is of stable and continuous duration, characteristics that the decree does not have. Even the provisions that were distracting - but only for the municipalities - from the Stability Pact the interventions on schools are very far from the promises made by Renzi, who at its establishment promised more than 3 billion for the modernization of school buildings. The plafond granted in the decree therefore does not consist in new resources, but in only 244 million euros in the biennium: a mockery, if compared with the cuts to the mayors of 375 million for 2014 and 563 million from 2015. The amount of EUR 240 million is decidedly insufficient to address the problems of securing and reclamation of asbestos and the necessary extraordinary maintenance required by the public school complexes of children's schools, primary schools and first grade secondary schools (i.e. the old averages). Being in total almost 39.400 schools, we are talking about 6,200 euros granted on average to each plexus, that is a decidedly irrelevant sum to deal with the emergencies and the needs denounced also the other day by Censis. The most serious thing, however, is that the 5,320 secondary public schools of second degree have been totally forgotten which, even after the Delrio bill, still fall within the competence of those Provinces that Renzi falsely repeats around that they have been eliminated, but that instead they still exist and are exploited also in this decree to suck their resources. In view of this serious gap, the rejection of our amendments has been shameful. Another mess is related to TASI: after a week of discussion, only last night, at 10 p.m., a full-bodied amendment was tabled. Persevering is diabolical: this measure on TASI will continue to repeat the mess on the taxation of real estate that was born with the Monti Government and continued with the Letta Government. A penultimate consideration on the safeguard clauses provided for in the measure: it is expected to monitor the increased VAT revenue linked to the payment of public debt, on whose assessment depends the possible increase of excise duties on petrol to ensure the achievement of the objective. It is a film already seen with Decree-Law No. 35 of 2013, the first so-called debt release, which determined a few months later, with Decree-Law No. 102, for an overestimate, the increase of excise duties on fuels. Renzi and the Democratic Party with the Europeans have abundantly capitalized the decree-law by buying consent at the expense of many. Renzi has promised to stabilize it since 2015 by expanding the audience of the beneficiaries, but this will not happen: it would take 15 billion euros, which are not there. For the time being, the European Commission's bill has come in which, by rejecting the Government, it calls for the settlement of public finances and respect for the Stability Pact. Italians now face the high risk of being subject to corrective manoeuvre in September, and therefore pay again, and with interest, the bonus of 80 euros and Renzi's promises. Italians deserve a lot more. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Serra and Nugnes. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u8	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u9	Mr President, if anyone expects us to say that we are not satisfied with the fact that a significant mass of employees will be able to enjoy an additional resource during the year, which is certainly important for their lives, which we know is in difficulty; if someone expects us to be prejudiced against this kind of manoeuvre, well, I say with sincerity that we do not have that attitude. On the contrary, we express with conviction an appreciation of the measure taken. We firmly express our positive assessment not only of Article 1, but also of the reduction provided for in Article 2 on IRAP. Having said that, Mr President, this is a measure that has some value but also many great limitations. To understand them all, I think it needs to be contextualized. I believe that we must understand to the full the situation of the country, of the country's economy, in order to assess how timid, unsolving, absolutely ineffective it is on the level of relaunching the country's economy. The Court of Auditors presented this morning the 2014 Report on the coordination of public finance (a very comprehensive document) inviting Parliament, therefore also us, to study it in depth, because it is necessary to understand how much the contents of the measures that we continue to approve then translate into a real well-being, an effective and incisive action towards the development of the economy of Italian society. If we take into consideration the data provided, for example, by ISTAT (the first of which is the one related to employment) we would discover that the situation is more serious than last year, when the Government Letta told us that it had found decisive paths on the plan of the revival of the economy, and much more serious than that of two and three years ago, when the Government Monti assured us the overcoming of the difficulty and the revival of the productive capacity of the Country. We are in constant collapse, but not only. This collapse constitutes and deepens, once again, the difference between North and South of the country. In the North, a part of the country that knew only percentages of physiological unemployment, there are high percentages, of 9.5%, but in the South there is more than twice as much unemployment, over 21%, and this is a datum, for how is structured the procedure of collecting data and information on employment that uses ISTAT. In fact, these are acts which are systematically provided by Parliament. From the European Commission's spring forecast on macroeconomic public finance, we find, Mr President, that the debt, which we should have contained with the regulatory interventions of the Monti Government, with those of the Letta Government and with those of this government. Government, on the other hand, is increasing, and is expected to reach 135.3 percent this year in terms of the ratio to GDP, a point never reached. It is not enough 80 euros to solicit a consumption that leads to productive recovery, it is not enough a lukewarm reduction of one of the taxes that weigh on the industrial activity and the operation of the companies; it is not enough a reduction of the IRAP to determine, as it pompously says this decree, competitiveness and social justice. It is not enough to act against a piece of one of the suffering categories: where are the pensioners, where are the cassintegrates, where are the workers fired on the mobility list, where are the incapients, those who have nothing, in this measure that does social justice only for a parenthesis of our population? Where are all the financial instruments that should have revived this country's economy? Mr President, do you remember Decree-Law No 35 of 2013? You should remember that, because Decree-Law No 35 is the one relating to the previous debts of public administration to companies. Well, that measure had been designed as a solution, more than EUR 60 billion have been set aside, which would have been spent quickly. We abstained (ours was the only Group to do so), claiming that it would not work. Well, in the decree we are examining, there are ten articles on the monitoring and operation of the machinery responsible for the payment of the previous debts of the public administration to the enterprises: it is like saying that, after more than a year from the promise that we have made, we have to start again, that the regulatory forecasts already approved are wrong. We are pleased that part of the population will probably have the money to buy a new washing machine, to buy shoes for the children who have to go to school and maybe some books, but we are very unhappy, indeed we are pessimistic about the ability of this measure to actually affect the fate of this country. We cannot rely on owl products, as if we were in a sort of supermarket of promises, the attractiveness of this measure. It is true, there will be economic treatments of superdirectors that will go from a sum of EUR 240,000 per year, and it is also true that there are some timid attempts to improve the functioning of the administrative machinery of the State, but we are still really trying. We must move from attempts to truly effective instruments, but this is not what we are doing with this measure. This morning we approved, indeed they approved, in a hurry, a rule that concerns TASI, that is, the marasma of the confusion with which the taxation is exercised in the local. We entrusted TASI to an amendment from the last hour of the government. I invite everyone to practice to understand what will happen. I think it will create a lot of confusion in the administrative machinery of the municipalities and among the citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u11	Mr President, there was a time, not even so far away, when a simple reminder from the European Union, and in particular from the Commission, was interpreted by interested political commentators and public opinion as a terrible damage to Italy, to the image of Italy, to the health of Italians and the Italian economy. In particular, the country panicked, including families and economic operators. Today, this is not happening: today, even, it is the interested political commentators and the advocates of public opinion who sweeten the pill by making it pass as a kind and courteous act of solicitation to do better. Well, I would not like to dwell on the fact that there is a difference of treatment, but on the need to call everyone to a responsibility, because with the measure to the attention of Parliament and, in particular, of the Senate, we are probably not doing the good of the country. We are not trying to improve the living conditions, in particular, of the less well-off. We know everything that is being done in terms of the forceful withdrawal of savings, the further taxation of private property and even the dreaded closure of RAI regional offices. We know that the value of these venues and the widespread and widespread commitment of public television on the territory in recent years and decades have led to benefits for local economies, but also for local cultures. RAI, as a public service, cannot give up having offices at regional level, because through the diffusion of regional culture comes out a complex and articulated picture of Italy and therefore of the country. I would like to point out that this measure is a way to intervene imperially on very sensitive areas. I quote in particular Article 24, paragraph 4, of the decree-law under consideration, which anticipates the operation of paragraph 4 of Article 3 of Decree-Law No 95 of 2012. The resulting rule, with regard to passive leases for institutional use by public administrations, reduces the rents by 15% of what is currently paid, while prohibiting the renewal of contractual relationships on different conditions. Already at a first examination, and without prejudice to any deepening, the discipline so designed appears spoiled by obvious unconstitutionality, by any angle of observation you want to look at it. Well, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the measure before us is full of this and so many others. We are absolutely not convinced that this is the way to proceed, that we can consider Italy a country that can quietly transpose this type of intervention. We are absolutely opposed to forceful withdrawals, and to still considering the house as a piggy bank from which to draw resources in order to be able to finance something that certainly does not benefit all Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u12	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the process of converting a decree into law, which we will all remember as a great electoral spot to win the European elections. The Court of Auditors this morning (and Mr Uras did well to remember this), in the 2014 Report on the coordination of public finance presented to the Senate, defined this maneuver, this operation of the IRPEF bonus of the 80 euros contained in the decree a surrogate. A surrogate, however, that penalizes - instead of favouring - that redistribution of the tax burden and the total tax pressure that is the real damnation of our country. That tax pressure that rose every time governments (especially the latter, appointed by the President of the Republic and never legitimized by a popular vote) tried to do something, and the only result they managed to achieve was to inexorably increase the tax pressure. This is a fact that we note, and I am glad that Vice Minister Morando is here today, because with me he was present the morning when the association of all Italian artisans, the CNA, presented his important research on total tax rate. It is the overall indicator of the tax burden on small and very small enterprises (the ones between self-employment and the very small enterprise), which has seen, from 2011 to the present day, the tax pressure from 59.1 percent to reach the peak of 64.5 percent in 2012 and is today slightly below 63.1 percent. It is a tendency that we would like to favour even more, if there were not a decree such as this (of the so-called 80 euros and of the so-called social justice) that gets the aim of giving to a few million Italians - I think not so many - some additional resource (and of this we are certainly happy), but with the final result of implementing this intervention in a sporadic way (it is defined a commercial because not yet structural, as it is worth and will only for 2014) and instead make inexorably structural all that increase of tax pressure, made of small or large taxes inserted in this decree, that go to give cover to the operation of the 80 euros. So, that tax pressure remains the great stone meal of our crisis. And Renzi, like Amato, presents himself in Europe with the tax on current accounts, that Italian savings that amounts to about 1,200 billion held by our families and that has avoided to our country the most dramatic phases of the great crisis, those of the queues in front of the banks, that other countries have lived in facing a financial crisis of proportions never seen, that has then retorted very quickly on the real economy. Renzi, therefore, introduces himself with this first tax, and adds his to the great tax, what we have called, with several names, another tax on the ground: the one on the most important and precious good of Italian families, that is, their own home. House that has been attacked by an increasingly brainy taxation in the various passages of names, from the IMU to the TARSU to the IUC and the TASI, which hide only one and true: the asset, hidden in so-called indivisible services, including those that do not exist. There are real indivisible services and others, on the other hand, that are paid even though no use is made of them and no use is made of them by anyone. Then he comes to Europe declaring that he wants to support, on the business front, the relief of that robbery tax that we call IRAP, which actually hides a real robbery from companies and weighs heavily on work: that work that only companies can create. The intervention, on the other hand, is very shy, having preferred to concentrate, for reasons of electoral nature, the resources on the 80 euros that are given to a few million Italians, but that are actually paid and supported by other millions of Italians. There are 16 million Italians, between self-employed and retired, who will pay 80 euros, and to whom? To whom perhaps, united in the marriage bond - I think of a couple without children - can collect, each for his own part, those 80 euros, while instead a single-income couple, with one or more children, will take nothing. Then what was born as the decree of social justice was immediately and suddenly transformed into the decree of greater social injustice against families, despite what our colleagues of the NCD Group say today, that I do not know what can be declared happy in the face of a decree that refers, with a motion of affections and intentions, to the law of stability a structural intervention that we hope and consider useful and important, but that continues to be a promise. I hope it is not yet another betrayal for Italian families, forced to bear the heavy weight of a crisis that has many aspects, including that of credit, and that instead of favoring the solution we continue to weigh down with interventions that - as Mr Uras said well before - enter the door in one way and risk getting out of the window in another way. In fact, in these three years we have collected a decree after another, one intervention after another, all in negative: interventions that, instead of promoting the exit from the crisis, have plunged us into the blackest crisis, in the name of an increased tax pressure frighteningly. Renzi is presenting himself today to Europe with this decree, which is useful for his election campaign, and we also hope that it will be useful for the new count and revision of certain parameters that we must succeed in tearing and obtaining in Europe. That's why I am confident, as I think all Italians, and I think I interpret the sentiment of all those who wanted to give this Government the chance to make it. However, it will also be able to do so thanks to an opposition that, in a responsible and constructive way, places first the interest of the nation, and not only that of a party or party; an opposition that, in the name of this, can sacrifice something of its own, but not the fact that Italians must soon find the right way out of the crisis, even in a different relationship with the European Union, which takes into account the great economic values that our country still expresses. Otherwise, we should resign ourselves to Renzi's defeat in Europe: Renzi to 41 percent, and youth unemployment to 46 percent. That sounds like a lost match already on the go. On the other hand, we must do everything to ensure that those young people, who today amount to 46 percent, who are not even looking for work anymore, are placed in a position to find it. And where can they find it, except in businesses? Where should we focus all our action, if not on the ability of companies to hang up growth, to look at domestic and international markets with greater vigour? Otherwise, at this point, it will mean that the 80 euros did nothing to us either. Europe has already told us this: it is a neutral maneuver from the point of view of the return in macroeconomic terms, and the only thing that will save us will be - I believe - to succeed all together in reducing public expenditure and rationalizing it, especially in order to lower the tax burden. Only the reduction in taxes for all will make this country more competitive. I believe and hope that this will help us, not only in this decree of the 80 euros, but also in the future economic maneuvers that however this Government will be forced to do to keep in order the public accounts and do something for the recovery, so that we can also forget the season of poisons: the one that led, for example, to consider all the great economic maneuvers carried out by the Berlusconi government never sufficient, when instead those maneuvers created the conditions, together with others, to allow today Matteo Renzi and his Government to present themselves before Europe strong of the defence of the national interest, strong of the defence of our economic values that must be rewritten and revised. We do not appreciate this decree, because it gives too little to the Italians and too much increase in tax pressure determines and will determine. On the other hand, we hope that in the future we can find again, on an economic text of particular importance, the reasons for defending national interests, because one thing is the reforms that serve this country, the economic structural ones and the institutional ones, other are the decrees like this, which today serve nothing, or rather further penalize the living and active part of the country that must be able to resume its race. Without this, the country cannot make it, but we are here to work so that this can happen. We hope that others will also do so with responsibility: they will soon abandon the logic of electoral ads and sit down and study what the country really needs. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u14	I greet a delegation of students from the Liceo Scientico Galilei in Lamezia Terme, in the province of Catanzaro, who are visiting the Senate after obtaining an award here in Rome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u15	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u16	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the decree that is now in approval, as we know, contains many measures on various chapters and areas of intervention, all of which are very important, as has been shown by the speeches of both the rapporteurs and those who took part in this debate. This large number of measures could lose sight of the economic significance of what we are called to approve today, but it is precisely on these economic contents that I would like to dwell on in my brief speech, because I believe them, unlike what I have heard so far, very important, just if we consider the difficult economic phase that our country is going through. The heart of the measure - as we know - is the tax measures and, above all, the tax credit relating to individual income from employees between 8,000 and 24,000 euros, and to climb to zero reached 26,000 euros. It must certainly be seen as a first step in a very important process, with the aim of significantly reducing the tax wedge, which must gradually be brought back in line with the average of our major European partners. I remember that because in the debate here in this House and in the Commission we have particularly insisted on the proposals to extend the audience of the recipients of the tax credit (total incapacities, pensioners) and on the possibility of calculation on a family basis: they are all naturally legitimate and worthy of intervention proposals, which will be taken over by the Government as soon as possible. But I believe that, in the end, it has been decided quite rightly to maintain the audience of the recipients of the benefits of the measure on the basis of the original proposal, precisely because this measure has as its primary aim the reduction of the tax wedge on employees. And from an economic point of view, I believe that support for other incomes, such as those mentioned above, must be based on policies and measures of a different nature and with a different distribution impact. I think it is difficult to deny the economic impact of such a measure. I have seen the analyses of the institutions that have been used in this regard, and the same possibility that has been assessed by international bodies. There is an impact on domestic demand and domestic consumption that will have a lot of value, because we know that the fall in domestic demand, at this stage, is the Achilles heel of our economy. Suffice it to point out that the internal market has lost the equivalent of around EUR 60 billion in value over the last few years. These effects are somehow confirmed by a variety of analyses, even if it is necessary to give time for them to be produced. However, I would like to remind you of another type of effect that this measure will generate: it is precisely the redistributive effects, which I think are greatly underestimated, also by this debate in this House. We must bear in mind that, for the first time in several years, the measure under consideration is the bearer of an intervention with a high redistribution value. About 10 million low-income workers, who have so far paid the highest price of the crisis, will be able to count on what has been defined as a sort of additional monthlyity. From this point of view we can speak, as the title of the decree we are about to approve, of an intervention containing measures for competitiveness and social justice, because these measures will increase efficiency and at the same time have an effect of equity. These two impacts, of efficiency and equity, can interact, since we must consider that the redistributive effects are not invoked only from the point of view of social justice, but are now to be pursued because they can have a positive impact even in terms of the country's growth. It is now demonstrated by a recent and extensive scientific literature that the redistributive policies put in place to reduce inequalities are also able to generate positive effects on the country's growth - as the International Monetary Fund says in a recent report - thanks to a series of favourable direct and indirect impacts. This has an important implication, which I think we should talk about more often. Economic recovery, development and dynamism must be combined with increasing attention to social equity. I believe that this is a first measure which seeks to move in this direction. Of course, as they say, it's not enough, but it's a first step. This is an important first step, which must be taken and taken. Then there is the measure, in terms of efficiency, which concerns IRAP. As we know, this is a tax levied on the income of all the inputs involved in the production process. Now, thanks to this intervention, all IRAP taxable persons will benefit from a 10% reduction under the scheme. This measure is in addition to the reduction in INAIL contributions of EUR 1.3 billion under the recent Stability Act. If we look at the other measure at the same time, namely the increase in the financial rates (but in reality we must specify that it is a realignment of our rates to the averages of other European countries), it can be emphasized that on the whole it has begun concretely and significantly to implement a principle often expressed and supported in some way also by international organizations: that of shifting the weight of taxation from work to rents, including financial ones. In addition, the line expressed in the measure under consideration, by raising the tax on financial income and lowering the tax on companies, indicates, in my opinion, a change of pace in economic policy, precisely because of the support it gives to companies and, therefore, to our manufacturing, therefore to its capacity for development and innovation. I believe that this too is an important, necessary sign. It is certainly not enough, but it is an important first step, which is also called for several times by the Commission of the European Union, even in recent recommendations. From this point of view, it is important to stress the fact that a number of measures have begun to move in the direction of an economic policy with a time horizon that goes beyond the individual measures adopted. Finally, I would like to talk, because this too has been discussed in this House and in the Commission, about the overall coverage of the measure. As we know, funding has in some way a number of sources to which it draws from the point of view of redistribution of income, from the banking system, from the recipients of financial annuities, to the reduction and restructuring of a whole series of items of public expenditure, which represent a first step, also here, of the so-called spending review. I do not think we need to remember that this process of reviewing expenditure is a fundamental process at this stage, but not only in terms of reduction and efficiency, but also because it will enable us to allocate resources on the basis of a process of redefinition of the priorities of our economic policy. From this point of view, I therefore consider it important that the debate should have dealt with the amount of these covers, as well as their composition. And, in this regard, it may be true that something more could be done in key than a greater ability to anticipate this fundamental process of spending review. In this respect, it can be recognised that there is an important task that can be pursued precisely through the measures and the law of stability, but it must also be stressed that, in the current dramatic situation, from the point of view of demand and the internal market, risks must also be taken in order to avoid possible even worse effects. In conclusion, I think it is important to reiterate how we are faced with a first step in what must become and become part of a reform strategy that has its own coherence within the next few months, in order to put our economy back in a position to grow again after these long years of stagnation. I believe that we are faced with a strategy that aims to carry out reforms that increase efficiency, reduce public sector spending, increase the competitiveness of the private sector and thus enable measures to revive and support incomes through these areas without increasing the public deficit. We must be aware that trust, both within us (i.e. our citizens) and at European and international level, will depend on the success of this reform strategy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Alì]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u17	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u18	I call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to point out that in the debate, apart from the usual and inevitable tones that opposition representatives must use in a political dialectic, they too have come to the ground, which we have indicated, of the choice that has been made: I am referring to the choice of a first measure to which so many others must follow. At a time when they themselves have indicated a whole range of categories that have not perhaps been affected by this measure, they could not help but acknowledge that, however, there has been intervention on certain categories certainly among the ones most burdened by the dramas of the crisis. Therefore, as everyone has said - I repeat: representatives of the majority, but also of the opposition - the measure constitutes a first significant intervention in the direction of a new trend, which is that of the reduction of fiscal pressure and public expenditure. We have also discussed this this morning; we have allowed ourselves to anticipate it in our report, although it has long been stressed in the debate that these objectives which the measure has set itself are, however, partially and sectorally achieved. As for companies, the 10% cut in IRAP is not insignificant: it is a substantial cut, which is estimated, among other things, in about EUR 2 billion. It is therefore absolutely not negligible. Of course, as an agenda unanimously approved by the Commission and shared by the Government this morning, it is necessary to extend the audience of beneficiaries of the exemptions from IRAP, involving small individual companies, professionals and VAT consignments that do not reach 180,000 euros in turnover. It is therefore necessary to broaden the base of those who are exempt with a new intervention on IRAP. Also on the fiscal bonus front - it has been said - we absolutely shared the commitment that the Government has made towards, not only the families, but also some categories that, as Senator Uras pointed out, are not included in this measure. Of course, it will also be necessary to intervene subsequently on pensioners, as well as on other categories and with other measures on the world of production. In the same way, we must insist on reducing public expenditure. This morning I allowed myself to stress in the report - and I would like to do so once again - how, in my opinion, this measure is closely linked to both the legislative decrees implementing the fiscal delegation (which are already in Parliament's attention because the government is beginning to hesitate), and to the major constitutional reforms, which cannot only be the reform of bicameralism and the reform of Parliament's structures, but must also include reform measures for the entire governance of the national territory in all its articulations, with a strong simplification and implementation of strong economies of scale. All this must be done within the framework of a reform process to which this legislature is called. I think that, in the end, this will be a truly turning-point legislature, because if we all manage to do these things together we will really have given the country a more modern, efficient, certainly more direct attitude to the interest of citizens and families in reducing the tax burden on them and, above all, in increasing employment opportunities, and therefore of social and economic growth. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u20	I call the rapporteur, Senator Guerra.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to take a quick look at some of the concepts, which the co-rapporteur has already pointed out to a large extent. One difficulty that emerged in the debate as a whole is that which is always encountered when redistributive policies are to be put in place. Putting redistributive policies in place can be not only a political choice, but also a necessity when the cake does not grow. In those cases, to make policies we need to see how best to allocate resources, according to criteria of efficiency and equity. That is what he is trying to do, as the first move, as has rightly been pointed out, this measure. Redistributing always means, by definition, taking on one side and putting in another. It is obvious, therefore, that we can always refer to other destinations, but it is a matter of choice: it is the difficult choices, which are called not only the Government, but also Parliament, and I believe that we must ask ourselves very seriously about this. I would like to mention one point: one of the basic choices of this measure is to shift the focus, focusing it on the productive world (business and labour), also to the detriment of taxation on income from capital, which are not always annuities in the negative sense, but can also, rightly, be the result of savings. This exists and that is why it is a difficult choice. However, I would like to stress one thing, because we cannot just call ourselves to the heart, but we must also consider the data. Deposit taxation - which certainly, in the area of taxation on financial income, is the one that worries us most, because we are aware that it is the only type of employment of people with lower incomes - comes, for 42%, from 20% of the richest population. It is, therefore, a taxation that has in itself a very strong redistributive component. To get to pay 5-6 euros in a year you must already have a significant capital, which - let us remember - most of our population, the one to which we call us when we refer to the poor, does not. If we look at the figures, then, many of the concerns that have been expressed in this House are unfounded. The shift is temporary with regard to the intervention on the tax wedge implemented through the so-called 80 euro bonus. It was a choice determined by the will to act immediately in the face of the emergency of a crisis that is not reduced, through a measure that has a double purpose: it intervenes on the tax wedge (and therefore it is a measure of supply, of competitiveness, if we want to call it so), but at the same time it intervenes on a component of the wedge (the money that would not otherwise end in the pockets of the workers) that translates into demand. There is, therefore, the will, with an intervention defined in the meantime, but which will then be traced back to the structural elements, to act immediately on a crisis situation, which would otherwise risk becoming further entrenched. The other aspect, on the other hand, is permanent and I would like it to be emphasized, because it seemed from the debate that everything ended in a few months' time: no. The other aspect that is already permanent and is not only a future commitment of the Government (to which I believe, of course) is the already remembered reduction of the IRAP, which is not small. The 10% reduction of all IRAP rates, in fact, represents a very respectable intervention, which at the regime counts for more than 2 billion euros and which certainly helps to compress that called high total tax rate, but I would not calculate at those levels (I also discuss the methodology of calculation, but here we do not do academic lessons, so I just say that I do not believe in that level, because I know how it is calculated), even if it is certainly high. Finally, companies are not neglected by this intervention at all, not only with regard to the fiscal aspect (which, however important, is not the only one on which we have to learn to focus our attention); in fact, the EUR 8-10 billion that will finally reach companies as a release of their claims towards the public administration is not a small thing. In fact, many companies, especially small businesses, and especially those in some sectors that work for public administration, have a major, huge liquidity problem, also linked to objective difficulties in the use of credit. Unblocking those payments, therefore, is a fundamental and urgent support to businesses and it is a merit of this measure, along with what has been mentioned in some interventions, namely the easing of the Stability Pact, as far as possible. Of course you can do more and more, but what you have done is always better than nothing. The relaxation of the Stability Pact has been in favour of measures in the field of school construction. I wanted to address these points justly, in order to bring the debate back into the broad framework of this decree and not reduce it to an asphyxiating comment on the two or three things I have heard, unfortunately, repeated too many times in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u22	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u23	Mr President, I think it may be of some interest to this House - although perhaps not particularly sexy, as my friend Michele Salvati says - to try to re-read the measure at our examination in the light of the document recently approved by the Council of the Union on the 2014 stability programme presented by our country. As you know, it is a document that was issued a few days ago. There are eight recommendations that have been made to us, but I would like to refer only to four of them, and I will summarize them very schematically. The first recommendation focuses on the need to pay greater attention to the certainly negative development of the overall debt volume. We are among the European countries that, over the last few years, have had one of the best debt developments in the world, but we are a country with high public debt which, in recent years, has tended to deteriorate. In this context, the recommendation places the issue of fiscal adjustment but, with great attention, stresses the fact that it must be a budgetary adjustment, i.e. a reference to debt, which looks at the problems of growth, so that it is compatible with a growth strategy. This is the first recommendation. The second recommendation is so resumable: they tell us for the third time consecutive to transfer further - and they use the word "alternatively" because we finally adopted some intervention on this side - the tax burden from the productive factors - work and business - to consumption, real estate and the environment, ensuring the financing of the recent reduction of the tax wedge on labour also for 2015. This is written in Recommendation No. 2 addressed to our country. There is also Recommendation No. 3, which has a precise relevance to the text at our examination, because it concerns the imperative need for a clear recovery of efficiency of the Italian public administration, especially on two sides that are explicitly underlined: the increasing weight of bureaucracy on the development of economic activities in general and in particular of the enterprise and a huge burden that the malfunction of civil justice service induces in the economic system. The need for action in this area is therefore stressed. Finally, in the fourth recommendation I want to refer to (which is actually No. 7 of the European document), it is said: be careful, because over the last few years you have implemented numerous legislative measures to open up markets still characterised by a closing situation - which is certainly not absolute, of course - but you have adopted very few measures to implement those laws effectively and you have a huge problem of transition from legislative to administrative activity, in order to implement the legislative innovations that have been made. These are the four recommendations, but, just before passing on to them, the Council of the European Union document intervenes on an issue which, also in this House, we have devoted (today, paradoxically, hardly anyone remembers it anymore) enormous attention when approving the Economic and Financial Document. As you know, this is not about the postponement of the structural balance target, which we should have asked for in Europe, but about the rate of improvement - not the worsening, I stress - of the structural debt balance, in order to achieve the objective of the structural balance provided for in the Stability Pact. That is, we should have improved by 0.5% a year, while for 2014 - through the presentation of a special return plan, as provided for in the agreements and treaties in the following years - we planned not to get worse, but to improve only by 0.2 percent. Well, in the document, which is something very different (maybe we should talk about it this way, if we also wanted citizens to understand what we are dealing with), this point was absolutely crucial and - let us be clear - uncertain, because with that choice we naturally turned to the Community bodies for the adoption of our proposal, but obviously we did not have the certainty - and we all remember that there was a significant margin of uncertainty - that they could take a positive attitude towards this choice. In this document, before moving on to the recommendations, there is an explicit reference to this point, where it is literally said that this choice could be assessed as significant, which is a somewhat curious way of warning that it could only be assessed negatively if it were repeated in the following year (i.e. if in the year following 2014 we did not make choices consistent with the return plan that we presented). In the light of this - certainly a little rough - description of the Council of the European Union document, let us return to our measure: what do we see? First of all, we receive a confirmation, far from obvious: when we presented the Economic and Financial Document, we did well, on the side of the necessary flexibility of fiscal policies, to choose the solution I have just mentioned (i.e. a reduction in the speed of approach to the objective of the structural balance, compared to the pace of improvement provided for by the Treaties), rather than the one proposed to us by many parties, aimed at using all the margins between 2.6 or 2.7 and the famous 3% deficit-GDP ratio. It is clear from this opinion that, if we had made this second choice, we would now be in a situation of serious difficulty. Can we once remember that the country as a whole - not the government - has made a coherent choice? Through it, in fact, we have achieved two results, both of which would be called into question today, if we had not done so. The first result, more limited, is that we have recovered the margins, even of financial type, within which in 2014 we were able to make the choice we are discussing, that is, we were able to approve this decree-law. The second conclusion we can draw from this is that we have demonstrated, since the beginning of the implementation of the European Pact that links us to the other countries of the euro area with the six pack, the fiscal compact and other, that anti-cyclical policies, provided they are coordinated with the European dimension and convincedly shared in the European dimension, are broadly compatible with the indications of the Pact. It is not true that the pacts that bind us to other European countries are so stupid, to use the famous expression used by Romano Prodi many years ago, as they are systematically described. We have had the opportunity from the outset to say that anti-cyclical tax policies, provided they are coordinated with the European dimension, are possible, are compatible with the Treaties. I now come more quickly to the merit of the decree-law. First of all, the sentence I mentioned earlier is a literal quote. This morning I heard a lot of mention of the Court of Auditors' coordination report on public finance, which, unfortunately - and I regret this - I have not been able to hear. I shall then read what the Court of Auditors says and will, as always, have the utmost consideration and respect for it. I would point out, however, that a document which has an impact, I am not saying more important but equally important, that of the Council of the European Union, on this decree-law says what I have just mentioned, that is, it appreciates it without any ambiguity and says that so much is finally right this intervention, which is explicitly recommended that in 2015 it is absolutely refinanced and, if possible, enlarged and rationalised. That's a flunk. The exact opposite is true. Apart from the fact that there is no one there to fail, no examiner and no examination: we decide together, and together with the other countries we have obtained a broad consensus that finally this intervention to reduce the tax wedge on employees has a consistency with the policies recommended in Europe. As a result, an appreciation has also been expressed of the fact, as the recommendation says, that at least in part the intervention relating to IRAP and that on the reduction of the tax wedge on employees has been financed by a shift of tax burden on assets, in this case, securities, although it must be acknowledged that the European Union recommendation insists more on the issue of consumption. This is a particularly sensitive issue in Italy because we are in a situation that signals the issue of tax evasion as crucial in the field of consumption, because compared to the average European rates, in relation to our level of consumption, we have a much smaller revenue. What does that tell us? That unlike what is repeated at every stage, the problem of Italian tax evasion is not concentrated on income evasion, which is also there, but it is ultra-focused on the issue of taxation on consumption, because in relation to rates and consumption volumes we have a much lower revenue than we should have. Can we think that, given this judgment of the decree, we will be able to make this intervention permanent and - much more - to realize, first in 2015 and then in 2016, an intervention of ulterior reduction of the tax wedge contribution, this time concentrated on the side of the business costs, that it is able to adapt, roughly, the tax wedge contribution on the job and the Italian enterprise to the average one of the great European countries our competitors in the euro area (breaking for a moment one of the great countries that however does not fall in the euro area and that from this point of view has characteristics very different from ours, that is the United Kingdom)? I think that the answer to this question can only be positive, but we must know that there is one condition: the revision of expenditure (here is the meaning of the decree). There is nothing to be done: we have to think in the light of the fact that the revision of expenditure must achieve objectives that are not set in a meeting. I have heard nothing but about electoral issues, but this is not a meeting: there is the Economic and Financial Document, approved by Parliament and presented regularly in Europe, which sets very ambitious targets for the revision of spending over the next three years, and in particular it provides for a spending reduction operation in 2015 that is, roughly, worth between 15 and 17 billion euros and in 2016 an expenditure review operation worth 32 billion euros. It is clear that if the revision of expenditure takes on this dimension, as well as the quality necessary to ensure that there are those structural reforms (I am thinking of the weight of bureaucracy, the justice service I have already mentioned), certainly the objective of the substantial equalization of the tax wedge contributory on labour in Italy compared to that of the great European countries is attainable. What's more, if you really do a review of spending with these characteristics and at the same time (here is the tax delegation and tax reforms) we manage to reduce tax evasion using every euro that comes from tax evasion not to finance new spending, but to give back to companies and workers what we take away from them with an excess of tax pressure, here is that the revision of the expenditure produces the conditions to create a universal system of social shock absorbers that is the basis for a real change, that is a system of assistance when there is no job, when you look for it or when a worker even relatively old needs retraining. A European system of this kind costs a great deal, but we get the resources to do this when we come to finance the reduction of the tax wedge at work through structural revenue from combating tax evasion. It is here that this measure crosses the arguments which therefore concern the revision of expenditure. It is of course the first year in which we make significant steps in this direction (I was going to say we are going towards this goal). It is clear that the intervention still has serious shortcomings, because we are struggling to move from an organized operation to a systematic method. Perhaps in the past there were conditions, even if it was not a good method, but if we had used the method we use for the review of the expenditure we do today, we would have achieved extraordinary results in terms of the quality of the public administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr. Deputy Minister, you still have two minutes. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I'm going to conclude. There is no doubt that from this point of view we know that in the immediate transition from linear cuts to the revision of spending as a method of government: the revision of expenditure is a way of governing, it is not a way of cutting; they are two different things, even if they both get savings, but those obtained with the revision of real expenditure are compatible with the growth and quality of the performance of the public administration. From this point of view, the measure has been corrected in my view in a positive direction. Where there were constraints that could create obstacles, we introduced flexibility, with a job for which I particularly thank the rapporteur, Mrs Guerra and the rapporteur, Mr D'Ali. In fact, a work of flexibility was carried out where it seemed that they made linear cuts that reproduced logic of the past. From this point of view the effort is appreciable, but there is no doubt that we are still distant from the objective both from the quantitative point of view, because the revision of the 2014 expenditure still gives too little, both - and to a greater extent - from the qualitative point of view. But it is the right way. In my opinion, it does not make sense in the face of so much effort to restrict, in my opinion, a little clumsy (let me say it without so many turns of words), to stress that this is a purely electoral measure. You're from M5S and LN-AUT. No, no! BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Not even a little bit. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Vice-Minister, I say this not for reasons of merit, but try to conclude. I'll give you another minute. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I'd have done it by now if they'd let me. That this measure has had a weight in determining the electoral outcome not only do I believe it, but I claim it [[Ironic applause from Senator Endrizzi]] , but it was so because this measure has reopened in our country the idea that to reason on the medium and long term, to plan the change and to begin to realize it with meaningful measures returns to be possible. It is quite normal that those who act so tend to win the elections compared to those who owl for the fact that this provision is misinterpreted badly and, if possible, abandoned as soon as possible because it would only serve to win Renzi. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Roman and D'Alì Senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, due to the continued work of the Joint Commissions, the Budget Commission was unable to express its opinion on the amendments tabled to this House. The continuation of the discussion of the draft law in title is therefore postponed to the afternoon sitting of tomorrow. I should like to inform Parliament's groups that at 4 p.m. tomorrow's Question Time the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini, will answer questions on the following subjects: initiatives and models for the enhancement of cultural heritage; interventions to promote the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u25	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-255.ana.u26	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, June 5, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.06 a.m.
