ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u4	Montevecchi (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.42 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 580.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u9	Mr President, speaking on this measure for us is quite embarrassing and unusual. I have asked myself several times what the attitude we should have been holding could have been, for a simple reason: I feel like I have landed on a planet that I do not know. I wonder how many parliaments in Europe, and on this planet, this morning we are debating a measure in which we are actually talking about an induced earthquake. This is what we want to do: we want to create conditions so that in Campania 70,000 abusive buildings will be demolished immediately, while in the second line another 210,000 will have to be demolished. Not as a politician, but as a technician, I wonder: where the hell do you want to put people and where the hell do you put the rubble? You've made a huge mess, and now it has to be Parliament that's gonna fix the shit that's been done in Campania.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u10	I invite you to use a more appropriate language; you might say: "Mistakes".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u11	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). You're right, I'm sorry. I was talking as a technician, not as a senator. Beyond the jokes and perhaps a little too naive approach to this measure, it is difficult not to take certain attitudes after having been in my hands the administrator for twenty years, for good or for bad, without ever having to face such a situation. I would like to stress the fact that, since I have always been involved in land planning, urban planning and construction, the abuses that I have encountered and on which I have had to debate or make decisions were limited, as my colleague, Mr Divina, recalled in his speech last week, to some woodsheds or such things, which can also be quite justified. However, here we are talking about a disconcerting thing, and I repeat: in how many parliaments on this planet can we talk about such a thing? Only in this Parliament. The thing that upsets me is that, however, the question is perimeter, in its almost totality, in a very precise place, that is, in the Campania Region. The question arises spontaneously, since I also spoke as an administrator: but the mayors, the technical offices and the political class where were they? If they were there and were silent, either they are collusion with this evil, or they have the slices of salami on their eyes, so they are incompetent. Maybe it's better to think they're incompetent, but there's something that's not working. The thing that is bitter, as an administrator, is that the consequences also pay for the poor people who have remained involved in this situation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] As I said before, it is difficult for me to have to justify to my people that there is a part of the country where the message that comes out is very clear: build abusively because you don't have to demolish so much. That's the message, and I can't and I don't want to justify it. In fact, I want to remind my colleagues that they come from my region and the neighbouring regions that we have given ourselves strict rules that, in almost all cases, are respected. I remember that in the Lombardy Region, with the plans of government of the territory, a great job has been done. I repeat: a great job. I come from a land that was tortured and massacred, in a hydrogeological situation, in 1987 and was even affected by a special law by Parliament - Law No 102 of 2 May 1990, known as the Valtellina Law - for the reconstruction of Valtellina. I must say, with great pride, that at the time huge resources were made available (1,000 billion of the old lire) and that, on that occasion, the works were programmed, designed, contracted, performed and tested; this happened in 99 percent of the cases (it remains some small detail to be settled). An exclusively Lombard virtuosity? I don't know; I think it should be the rule, the normality. This is the reason for the deep embarrassment I have in seeing and having to justify certain attitudes. But the most disconcerting thing about planning, the rules. In my area, if a citizen wants to freely modify the fence of his own house, changing the gate of entry, he makes a complaint of beginning activity (DIA), because otherwise he gets a fine, besides - maybe - a dick from the mayor. This is because it is the rule. We are therefore talking about two diametrically opposed worlds, which also give us a deep embarrassment in our attitude, because, this morning, it would be too easy to massacre this classic Campania attitude (let me, because in fact it is so). But I don't want to and I can't afford to go in front of my fellow citizens and make this thing digest, which doesn't exist on a normal planet. We have placed constraints on the planning of our territory, both from the country-environmental point of view and from the point of view of infrastructure planning, triggering the right debate and a democratic process within the institution in the planning of the territory, and it is not easy. I know that planning new infrastructure and binding parts of the territory - where there are legitimate expectations of the individual and just as legitimately there are the ambitions of the mayors - triggers a process of democratic debate that is not always easy. But since these rules have been created, in particular for the defense and protection of the territory, considered also its hydrogeological failure (from this point of view, from North to South the conditions are more or less the same throughout the country), in certain parts of the territory these rules are respected, in other parts not, unfortunately, and this leads us to the upheavals that we have also recently seen in the last floods - alas - in which even a dead person is always dead too much. We are therefore totally opposed to this issue. All I'm saying is that I find it unfair that this issue should be brought to Parliament; if they were to see it in the Campania Region among themselves: the mess you did, you had to fix it. This passage in Parliament is probably indispensable because you will not be able to find the square, but let me say that I hope this is the last time we give a show, not only to our country but also outside the borders, unworthy of a civilized country. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u12	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u13	Mr President, my colleague Mr Crosio said well: I would hardly have thought in recent years that I would be discussing such a serious matter. Some concept of urban planning, even in the second year of the technical institutes for geometries, teach it, and they say that urban planning is a discipline aimed at controlling growth and spatial transformation (and it has been well interpreted in those areas); moreover, one must understand the specificities of urban settlements, with scientific pretensions of globalization (and here we are not just ourselves); finally, it aims to resolve social conflicts by developing projects of technical organization of the city and regulation of the ground, in a logical distribution of public-private areas (in this case too, Mr President, we are not at all). Urban planning is the complex of the activities of study and planning of the environment in which a human community is established. Of all this, Mr President, only this last point is real: there is a human community in those areas. However, with regard to the urban issue and to these concepts, the measure you are about to approve goes in the opposite direction. The first concept that comes to mind is that condoning is a method, an italic escamotage of the most shameful that you can conceive. The pardon is like an indulgence, an absolution. Do we want to call them derogations, extensions, referrals, sanatories? These too are all italic words to erase every punishable wrongdoer, to frustrate state laws. This is Italy, Mr President, and probably not all of Italy, but I would say a part of this country where the civic sense does not exist, where the value of the State and the rules does not exist. This country, Mr President, needs measures to secure the territory, to restore the environment, to redevelopment of the building stock. Why do we not have the courage to say that this country, this beautiful country, has been so tormented by concrete wounds precisely in those areas that nature has considered worthy of attention? Whole families have made the activity of building speculation - and therefore of abusing - the purpose and even, I would say, the business of their lives. Even your Pino Daniele in a beautiful song told some stories, but they did not take hold. We are aware, Mr President, that the reality of the area is complex, and this has also been mentioned in Senator Caliendo's report. However, it is inconceivable that in this country there are blind, deaf or even conniving administrators with these abuses, with those who do them and with those who will then pay the consequences. We are actually concerned what will become of these demolition orders, if they will be executed, if instead it will be just a system to lengthen the stock and the times. How is it possible that there were no controls for the plants, for the safety (if I am not mistaken, these are also seismic zones)? In addition, with regard to the IMU, taxes, the connection of water, the collection of waste, Mr President, what kind of attitude is there in those areas? We have seen from the report that there are 200,000 abusive homes, multiplied by four, make about 800,000 people living there. So if I didn't make a mistake, let's talk about about five times the city of Bergamo. Do you realize what we're talking about? Moreover, the activity of the section of the General Public Prosecutor of Naples will continue continuously on this thorny problem of demolitions. It is disconcerting to have to see complicity and connivance on the part of bodies and institutions in the face of the spread of building abuse, which has never stopped in recent years. In order to limit its effects and the criminal phenomenon connected you cannot and must not bland people with a message of a pardon always at the door. Among other things, on January 26, at the inauguration of the judicial year at the Court of Appeal of Naples, the Attorney General pointed out in a heavy way this possible new pardon that, every decade, is making this country a colabrodo with regard to the minimum urban rules. In January this happens during the inauguration of the judicial year and in March is presented this bill for the reopening of the terms of the building pardon of 2003 for the benefit of the citizens of Campania who, among other things, had been excluded by a regional law. Without a shadow of a doubt, abusing involves a sort of fragmentation in the idea of legality. A real ghost city has been established, in which there are no primary services, which have not been foreseen; there are no green areas, because they have never been designed. They are born cities thanks to illegitimate or even non-existent concessions, so to reopen the terms of the pardon in areas like that bell means to set in motion a machine of very complicated and efficient bad. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Many people in this House believe that the only possible solution is forgiveness: since abuse is so widespread, they probably feel it is unnecessary to fight it. I would like to make a few comments. We have legislated, auditions and meetings - a mess of the accident - to see if the production of the single document of contributory regularity (DURC) was to last three months, fifteen days or two days, but in the end things are different. Another consideration. ASL, Legislative Decree No. 626 of 1994, Legislative Decree No. 494 of 1996 and all the regulations concerning the safety of construction sites, the safety of workers: when building abusively, it goes on everything for the fireplace, Mr. President. So the unions, the reasoning patrols of the branch where they were, where they are, and at this point I also wonder: where will they be? I will make only one small consideration: a lord of my parts was denounced because he took from a state property area, the gret of a river, a trunk that had been dragged to you. He's been sued for this. It is also beautiful the title of the bill, where there is the definition of "demolition" of abusive artifacts. Manufacturing? Well, do you see a worker coming home to his kids at night, tired after working at a demolition site? The children asked him: "Daddy, how was work today?" Well, I demolished some artifacts. Those artifacts are an entire city. So, papi, come home and tell your kids that you demolished a city: they'll think you're an actor, maybe in Gozilla's movie. We are also talking about Europe, Mr President. But when they read the report attached to this bill, combined with the reports on the issue of the land of fires and the question of garbage, what idea will Europe have of this Italy? How will foreign investors intervene economically? This noisy Europe, which does nothing but give us some fine every now and then, seems to be not paying attention to Made in Italy, which in this case is completely sinked. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You must conclude, Senator Council. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. I would like to end my speech, Mr President, with a very simple idea. We are opposed, this is clear: with respect to a phenomenon of such greatness and gravity, such as what is in this area of our country, the proposal indicated in the bill can certainly not see us favorable. We are opposed because the goddess of a ten-year-old building pardon induces those who are professionally involved in this sector to be in continuous movement. And we're against it because the idea of spontaneous construction doesn't fascinate us, and we'll never marry her. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us first of all note that it is only we in the North League who are debating this issue today, and I am very surprised that it should be the subject of reflection on the part of all the members of this Senate. Otherwise, it would have to be said that, with this measure, once again those who propose it, without realizing it, produce, on the contrary, increases the stereotype for which in one part of the country you can make smart and only another part of the country must bear what the law defines, with the load that derives from it. Is this about demolition? No, it's not demolition. With this measure it is in fact a matter of defining something that will allow to lengthen the stock, bringing it all in time. And, bringing it all in time, inevitably we know that, as is tradition, there is nothing more definitive in Italy than what is temporary. This is nothing more than a disguised pardon of building abuse, very polite, very hooded, presented with a technical report that I challenge anyone to write with a more pungent hand. In fact, in the same technical report that comes out of the Commission, it is written: "It is clear that this is a phenomenon of unusual size: on the one hand if it were indeed possible to carry out such a number of demolitions in an absurd way" - we are talking about 70,000 demolition orders and three times the number of proceedings initiated - "it would result in the demolition of housing units equivalent to the size of Naples, and it would be essentially impossible to house its inhabitants and dispose of the ruins." As you can all understand, in the face of a report written in a bill signed and deposited with the Senate of the Republic and currently under discussion, one can only be very obsequious. It is written in the report, the North League does not say it: you wrote it, the Commission wrote it. So how do you think you're serious about the country and the citizens? Do we think we are more credible and give messages of seriousness to those who, at this moment, are struggling in the country with these kinds of measures? I have the conviction, which unfortunately I also see supported by the facts, that there is the certainty that everything will go into silence, because the press will deal with it in a marginal way and everything will go to cavalry. Those who have made the smart can continue to do so, going to commit injustice also to those citizens of Campania who have respected the urban rules, who have not committed building abuse and who today find themselves equal to those 280,000 abusers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I remember that we are not just talking about private homes with inhabitants, residences of citizens in situations of economic inability: we are also talking about residential complexes, we are talking about building abuses made and supported by the underworld. I don't know which country you want to live in. I know, of course, that what you are saying to the country outside does not correspond with what you are doing, with the draft laws, within Parliament. These bills are a slap in the face of democracy and the honesty of citizens, of all citizens. That he's a member of this North League Senate telling you that should make you think. Even in Campania there are honest citizens who are slapped by these measures. If you will, Mr President, then the slap is even stronger for us. I have been mayor for ten years and, like myself, many of my colleagues have been sitting on the benches of the North League. In ten years I have dealt with building abuses that started from the small window until arriving - as the former councilman and now Senator Crosio used to say - at the woodshed. But in this case we are not talking about woodshed: we are talking about whole countries. We're talking about administrators who have been negligent for years. I'm making a provocation. I could also be willing to vote for this measure, if it were written in it that those who committed these abuses, the administrators who granted them, those who were negligent in going to check, the persons in charge of the service, the technical office and the mayors are put at the door: those who allowed this kind of reality to be affirmed, those who let this be done must be put at the door. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But within the measure in our examination there is none of this: it guarantees impunity to those people, and it is done in the most shameless way, going to disguise everything behind the social need not to put citizens under the bridges. What are you talking about? But what are you selling us? I say this in this case to the Democratic Party, which boasts so much of honesty and of operating on the basis of a moral duty. But how do you vote for these things? How can you be consistent with what your own party says? I understand the senators who signed it: they have a legitimate territorial interest: everyone defends their territory. I also understand that there may be Senators of the bell tower PD who can share. But do the other senators of the various regions not see obvious discrimination? Isn't that true of Campania for the rest of the country? Or maybe you think with this of going to put a small stake, around which you then turn the rest of the world? Or maybe it is thought that maybe even party friends, maybe Umbrian friends, maybe the president of the province of Perugia Guasticchi, the same one that was exposed by us, by the regional advisors of the North League, went to show the abuses built in Umbertide. This is the reality you want to grasp. I tell you then: be at least consistent, you cannot vote on this type of bill. If we talk about the law, we must also talk about content. Here we are talking about something that is the opposite of the law, and does not change the political context, because in the end - I repeat - those who have allowed this kind of nefariousness are not put at the door. It's a wrong message for the whole country. You are going to make special legislation only for Campania, saying that the smart guy gets away with it. How? In a very simple, typically Italian way: through the definition of demolition criteria, which are not one or two, but eleven: in the list there are almost all the letters of the alphabet. Then, with this, we know very well that - as provided for in the measure under consideration - these artifacts will never be demolished. Today you are simply giving a wrong message, and yesterday you gave it with the provision empty prisons: yesterday you released inmates who went to jail for committing crimes; today you tell people who have committed building abuse that those abuses will not be demolished or will only be in any part (probably only the weakest ones). We are well aware that, in the face of nefariousness, there is nothing worse than to be yielding. Mr. President, maybe something might have escaped. I am thinking of the unhappy joke that Senator Pezzopane made the other day when, addressed to his political opponents, he said: "Let's exterminate them"; then, he corrected himself by saying that he meant: "Let's asphalt them." Maybe it's still in time to correct itself by saying, "Let's demolish them," but with reference to building abuse. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] At least correct yourself by doing something useful, and not talking nonsense. These are the unlikely masters of virtue who come here to tell us the side of good and evil. I'm used to sticking to the rules and enforcing them, like I always did when I was an administrator. I know that there are also other administrators or former municipal administrators in this House. What message do you give to our citizens today by voting on this kind of bill? Do you prove that the law is on the honest side? No, say that the law is on the side of the clever or the more political godparents! This is the reality that you are masking behind such interventions. I would also like to ask the Lombard senators, excluding those of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, if they do not feel touched in the heart by these measures. It is not possible to vote in favour of these measures, precisely because of the respect we owe to our honest fellow citizens. If only it were a limited fact! But now - I repeat - you are again feeding the stereotype according to which Campania means cleverness, which is then extended to mozzarella, waste and all the other waste reported in the newspapers. For once do the opposite: say that you respect the laws starting from Campania, and not leaving that Region for last. It is a matter of giving a message of seriousness, which is necessary to all, to the whole country and also to the Government. The sense of responsibility to which I refer is that which must prompt you to vote against this measure. Mr President, I repeat that we cannot be in favour of those who do these things. A few days ago, reading the local newspaper of the province of Varese "La Prealpina," I found a photograph on which it was written: From dawn on the queue to pay the taxes. These are the citizens of the province of Varese, for whom I cannot vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u17	Mr President, what my colleagues in my group have said for a few minutes is a bit what we are all thinking and that the citizens we are dealing with are also thinking about these days. For about a week now, in fact, what we have heard in the speeches made by our colleagues in the Senate Chamber at the beginning of today's debate has been in our minds. I believe that my feeling is the same as other colleagues, when we come home, we talk to voters, acquaintances and people who meet. When they ask what we are dealing with in Rome, in addition to empty prisons, on more than one occasion I realized to tell this quite surreal experience. I can think of people's faces when I say that we are looking at a measure that involves the planning of the killing of 70,000 abusive properties in Campania (then there are 210,000 others that need to be evaluated). These people definitely read certain news in the newspapers or on Facebook, and maybe they also look at it critically. The moment a senator says to them: "Look, there's a provision, I'll show you, it says (so paper sings) that there are 70,000 abusive properties that need to be knocked down," people look at you and ask you if it's true, if you're kidding. You see, people don't believe it, and they think you're kidding. To these people, and to you, I read only the first part of the report: The draft law is based on the objectively very serious condition of the Campania region, where, on the one hand, the stratification over time of abusive construction operations, and on the other, the failure to apply the last building permits by the effect of two regional laws (...) has resulted in a clearly unmanageable situation, in which 70,000 demolition orders have now been issued and there is a triple number of proceedings initiated. This part is enough to make our fellow citizens understand what we are talking about. And we're just talking about Campania. When they ask you, who knows else? Who knows in Sicily, in Calabria, who knows what happens in other parts of Italy! Actually, goose bumps. But goose bumps also come when you hear in the Senate Chamber of the Republic talking quietly about 70,000 building abuses. Last week we heard some of our colleagues say that, with a normality that makes the skin cling. Building abuse in cities, villages, with a size equivalent to the city of Naples. So, looking at the city of Naples comes to think: Madonna, how many houses, how many abusive houses. I am even more disappointed when I think of the sacrifices people make in the North to build a house, the bureaucratic trafiles they follow to abide by all the laws relating to the house. Let us think, for example, of the house laws passed by this Parliament, which is the same one that, perhaps, then guarantees the building abuses in Campania; of the money that is spent by the municipalities to realize all the plans (think of the PGT, the PRG and all the other instruments), from the municipalities of the North but also from those of the South. You spend money on building plans and then you don't make them respect them: but what do you spend them doing? I am thinking of the rigour of our technical offices. My colleagues who have been mayors have spoken about it. I myself was deputy mayor in the city of Pavia. Among other things, I remember that every time there was a suspect or when someone assumed that in a certain place maybe a building abuse was being committed, that was being built in an illegal way, immediately came the carabinieri to the technical office, and then the newspapers, the local press and the public opinion, which almost pointed out the administrators as if they were committing the abuse. Let's think about all the taxes related to the ownership of the house, all the resources that we pour into the municipalities, the state, what we pay for gas, water and electricity. But let us also think about something else, which really makes me angry: the public debates in which colleagues also take part in this House who, wisely, tell the citizen who is watching us on television that those who have a home have to pay, that it is right that they pay. It's right that you pay, but it's right that they all pay. So, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder with what face you will be on television, with what face you will vote for this measure and with what face you will return to your territories to say that we are quietly voting for a measure relating to 70,000 building abuses. Scrolling through the report to the bill we talk about two attempts to pardon, the impossibility of killing because we do not know where to put people and rubble, people who in good faith have bought. Good faith? But the law does not admit ignorance, nor does it admit good faith! I am thinking therefore of the mayors of these municipalities, the municipal technicians, the architects, the engineers, the builders, the notaries, the accountants, the geometries, the municipalized companies, the ENEL, those who have urbanized and brought services to these abusive neighborhoods, the Forces of order that they should control, the citizens who know and who are silent. So, contrary to what some colleagues say, I don't think it's just the administrators who are to blame. This is social guilt. This is an entire abusive society! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is a whole society that knows and shuts up! It's a part of Italy that knows and shuts up! That's what I'm most sorry about. It is another Italy, a different thing than those who live honestly, a disappointment, a great disappointment for those who work hoping that something will change. We have a number of doubts about the future and the certainty that they are made in this way, because they tell you: yes, we are made in this way. We're sure they'll never change, because that's how they are. Then comes confirmation that the neighborhoods of Secondigliano and Plain are abusive. The PRG of Naples provides that in the district of Pianura there is a park instead of houses: but they are done this way, what do you want to do with it. And they laugh, and it's bad to see that they laugh, that you work and try to operate in the best way for the citizens, but they laugh: they laugh at you or at the fact that they are like that. Seventy thousand homes built over the years and, according to the report, also in valuable areas, often referring to crime: it is written in the report. But with what courage do you speak of united Italy and tell us that we are all the same? We're not all the same, because if they're like that, I'm not like that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That's not who we are. We're not like that at all. We're different. It is right, everyone has his differences, but we are not the same: I am different from you. So we're looking for a solution. The government allocates 200 million to update the land registry to the South. All right, great, I'm glad, we're happy, but it would take 200 billion to update the land register in the South. And then comes this proposal: good, good, that's fine, but when will the legality be restored? Mr President, the Senate, with the creation of priorities and more or less serious scales, supports the existence of lawlessness. Mr Candiani, whom I appreciate because he was the mayor, said that he could vote in favour of this rule if there were certain conditions. Colleagues, I make a personal statement: I will never vote in favour of this measure, because they are so, and therefore I do not trust them anymore, even if they were to write me that tomorrow the works start. I don't trust you anymore. I don't trust anyone for years who promised us he'd fix this. I don't trust you anymore. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u18	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u19	Mr President, a friend of mine, a building contractor, is building three townhouses; he has paid for the urbanization costs, he has obtained permission to build, he is in order with everything. Start building the three terraced houses and start arriving the ASL to do the checks; the ASL controls, it's all right. Then the guards arrive; they check, it's okay. Here comes the labour inspectorate; it does all the checks, it's okay. Eventually the safety inspectors arrive at the workplace; they check all the scaffolding but, damn it, they discover that an axis is not well welded, it is not well nailed, and then what do they do? Fine of 3,000 euros to the manufacturer and fine of 1,500 euros to the director of the intense activities. At such a critical time for the world of construction, despite everything you get on the industry, and so my friend builder paid. However, it leaves perplexed what is read in the various newspaper articles, where it is discovered that in the municipality of Orta di Atella there are 1,444 abusive housing units. But where were the controls in this municipality? Where was the mayor? Where were the guards? Where was ASL? Nothing. Then, for example, we discover that in Giugliano there are 27 terraced houses, there are two two two-storey buildings and there are two sheds, all built abusively, so, no problem. In addition, always reading about "Legambiente Campania" we also find that there is a neighborhood where, out of 58,000 inhabitants, there are as many as 70,000 questions of sanatoria waiting for answers. Mr President, I find it inconceivable that these two parallel worlds exist, where on the one hand there are certain rules and rightly have to be enforced, and on the other hand there is nothing. In the report, Mr President, it says: 70,000 demolition orders, plus another 210,000 proceedings initiated, plus an "x" of which no one knows anything. Well, that's 280,000 units. Speaking to colleagues, I have been told that 50 housing units are being demolished a year. We want to make 80, we want to make 100 a year? It's 2,800 years before you throw them all down! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Apart from responsibility, there is also a cultural phenomenon. Rightly there the diffused conception is: "This is how it is done." After all, if the construction of the abusive houses in Campania continues to increase, who makes it happen to the citizens of Campania to buy it in a regular way, when a house built in a regular way costs about 200,000 euros and an abusive house costs instead 60,000 euros? It's obvious. After all, who stops them from buying an abusive house? It'll be destroyed in 2,800 years! The shameful thing that I notice, President, is that there is the complacency of the local administrators, because I challenge any mayor, any vigilant of these municipalities, any citizen of these municipalities: but is it possible that they have not seen all these houses grow? Is that possible? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The thought is to say "yes," so we all do it, we continue to do it", without thinking that all citizens of those municipalities pay us back, because the municipality does not collect the charges of urbanization, because certainly the municipality will not collect the IMU if they are not stacked and will not collect all the taxes of the garbage or anything else. And what happens in the meantime? The Mafia also uses this system to clean up money from illicit business, and we are allowing this to continue to happen. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Not to mention - as I have been told, and this really is absurd - that these abusive houses are even inherited. But what is that notary who can draw up the act of succession on something that does not exist? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, we are certainly discussing how to implement demolition action according to priorities, but we must all, especially from the administrators, especially from us who are here today to decide, to decide certain rules for everyone, and not to make distinctions between A-series citizens and B-series citizens. Citizens are all equal, and if the rules apply to B-series citizens, they must also apply to A-series citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In the measure then we see that, out of all possible logic, the property illegally occupied for the carrying out of criminal activity are in third place among the priority criteria for the demolitions. They must be in first place, you can't afford these things! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr President, I will certainly vote against this measure, not least because it makes no sense. This Parliament must not adopt an ad hoc law only for a region. We cannot approve this measure, because it is a promise of forgiveness, and certainly, when we begin to spread this feeling of forgiveness, in our view the abusive houses will rise even more than before, and it will no longer be these 280,000 to be demolished, but many, many more. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u20	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u21	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I read in the report on the measure we are debating today in this House that it is based on the objectively very serious condition in which the Campania Region is located. The report continues and it is stated that this is the result of the "stratification" over time of abusive building operations and the failure to apply the last building conditions. I would say that the use of the words "abbusive" and "stratification" in time comes to light. How long? So much, too much time to reach 70,000 demolition orders and a triple number of proceedings initiated, 210,000, a huge amount. But no one's seen this problem? A part of this country doesn't want or can't see? How can you get to numbers so incredibly high for a country where, as we can see also from this bill, there are those who work and live respecting the rules and those who work and live absolutely out of legality? The answer is clear: there are two Italies. It is said by those who live in a Region, Veneto, in a Province, Belluno, descending even more in detail, in a Municipality where there are constraints on constraints. There is the territorial constraint, the environmental constraint, the bond of the park, and others, of any kind: they would be invented in order not to allow anything to facilitate the construction, which, among other things, is currently in severe crisis. Constraints that don't even allow a nail to be laid, gentlemen. There has been talk of the farmhouse for the shelter of tools or woodshed (I live in a mountain area), and this is not possible to build either. Constraints for which you notice a nail and you are immediately subject to criminal denunciation, while there are areas where you do not see entire villages, palaces, condominiums, villas, terraced houses, where all the abusivism is not seen. Probably in this region there is a problem of sight, of not seeing and not wanting to see, or perhaps, as one of my colleagues said, they are simply done this way: it is a system, a way of being, a way that is now consolidated, that applies and that is good for everyone, it is good for the system. They think rightly: much so, perhaps they will arrive at my home in about 3,000 years... We believe it is shameful to act in this way, that it is absolutely not respectful for that part of the country that lives respecting the laws, customs and customs, where the administrators - and among us are many - as mayor, deputy mayor or city councilor, with different roles, have had to fight and fight, discussing with the citizens explaining why they could not intervene beyond the law on their building or on their land, on their property. Because the logic of the rules must be this, and this for us must be and remain, but it is difficult to explain it when a part of the country instead this logic does not have it. For a part of the country this logic does not exist and the logic is: oh, what a beautiful place! I like it. Let's build. That hill is so cute. Why not make a house? Let's build, no one can see it! This, gentlemen, is the system, and so it can't work. And now that the problem has become unsustainable and that the numbers are so high that we cannot handle the situation, Parliament is being asked to legislate, we are being asked to find a solution for this disaster. This is a further shame: to ask those who have absolutely not committed this type of abuse, to those who work and have to control the country, to resolve a consolidated situation and reached huge numbers. It is asked by giving priority and saying who will have the right to have the house again for one, two, ten or three thousand years, telling who bought it from a notary, probably complacent, that maybe that house is not in its place, is abusive, but nobody noticed, not even the notary, that should be the maximum guarantee for those who buy a house. They are mayors, councillors, professionals: a system that continues to be so fed. Gentlemen, if you vote in favour of this measure today - the North League will not do so - you will not save the system, because as you knock down 100 houses in a year, another 300 will be built next to you: that is the system. We are aware of this. It is certainly not Parliament that has to intervene, but the bodies that administer in these regions. [[Brusio]] President, I ask for silence. Perhaps this is only a matter for the North and not for the rest of the country, but I would ask you to have at least a little silence in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u22	Colleagues, I invite you to be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u23	BELLOT (LN-Aut). We are convinced that the housing emergency is also in the North, in this moment of crisis. There are families without a salary, who do not arrive at the end of the month; young people without a future who might want to have it, have a family, have that respect that the country should give them. However, they do not go looking for the abusive house or an abusive system, nor do our administrators set it up, because our system is quite different. President, we are therefore even more convinced that this country has a great difference between a North that lives according to the rules and with honesty, paying taxes, and a South, a part of the South, that does not even know what they are. It is not only this: we are amazed when there are hydrogeological disasters, when we have violent manifestations on the territory, when the environment rebels and refuses to accept this, at that point we say: poor abandoned territories, do not have a civil protection plan or one for the control of the territory. What are we talking about, gentlemen? There's nothing because nothing they want me to be there. [[Brusio.]] BELLOT (LN-Aut). The truth is only this: in reality, you do not want to change the system and you allow this. Then who pays for the damage? Moreover, within this measure there is a clear demonstration that the text is only pretentious and willing. In fact, there is no indication of any economic coverage. We are only trying to make the oratory, to hide the real situation, which is of unheard of gravity, without giving the means to try to intervene on the territory. All the municipalities involved in this serious situation will certainly not have the resources to cope with the destructions, because there is not only the problem of the ordinances, of the moratorium, but there is also the economic aspect to do so, the resources of the municipalities to demolish these buildings. When honest citizens are asked to pay taxes, the IMU, the ICI, those related to real estate, don't you think it would be better to correct this system? The North League opposes and will vote against because, as my colleague said (the sentence the bridegroom in full): we are not like that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u24	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u25	Mr President, I have asked to speak on this subject, which is quite glowing, although all in all it is simple in the scenario, just as it has been presented to us. Since April 2013 (i.e. since the beginning of this legislature) a draft law had been presented by Senator Falanga and other senators, in the matter of the demolition of abusive artifacts, aiming above all the situation of Campania, well known also for the past legislation. Now that text, which has arrived at the Justice Committee for evaluation and examination, has been completely dismissed because it was absolutely not acceptable, so much so that, after extensive work, the Commission has, I believe, unanimously or almost unanimously approved a text which has completely changed the original text, which essentially sets out priority criteria for the implementation of demolition procedures. What does that mean? It means that, basically, protocols, capitulates and circulars of the prosecutors of the Republic of Campania (in particular Naples and Nola) were recovered, from which it appears that priority criteria for the killing of these abusive artifacts were already followed. The text dismissed by the Justice Commission retraces these indications and criteria and places this list rigidly before the Senate Chamber. The fundamental question that comes to our attention at this moment is precisely that of the rigidity of this list, because we must consider that we are dealing, as a national Parliament, with a general law of the State, which will have effect on all territories and in all regions; it will create constraints in all regions and in all general prosecutors of the Republic of Italy. Frankly, in some respects, this is not understandable, because from the North, for example, we are told (I think of Lombardy): What do we have to do with those criteria, and why do you give us binding criteria that, for our part, make little sense? Then, having to consider that we have to legislate at national level, we have assessed that, among the amendments tabled, at least three different senators have already taken on this problem (among other things, Senators of the 5 Star Movement, such as Senator Cappelletti and Senator Nugnes, but also Senator Stefani of the North League). In particular, Amendment 1,121 states that these criteria should be considered by the public prosecutor as "mere indication". I believe that it is possible to find a form of legal compromise, in the sense of excluding the indication of priority criteria (which have passed the scrutiny of the prosecutors of the Republic of Campania and - I would add - environmental associations, the Free Association, who have given positive indications in this regard), while taking into account the need not to create excessive legal constraints for general prosecutors. I think it is possible to accept one of these three amendments, or to formulate a text 2. Eventually, we will work together with the senators I have appointed and with Senator Nugnes, just in the perspective I am indicating, replacing the expression: "observes the following priority criteria" (thus rigid and binding) with such an expression: "observes indicatively the following criteria, motivating each choice in the opposite direction". This means that the criteria would remain and be valid throughout the national territory and would have their own legal force. So, prosecutors should follow these criteria. However, in the specific case where it is not possible or appropriate, or it is wrong to follow these criteria, it would be necessary for the magistrate to state why he deviates - or departs - from them. I believe that this wording would agree with so many positions and, frankly, if it were not accepted, it should be explained to us what such an approach would have the opposite and the negative. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u26	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u27	Mr President, it is clear to everyone that the text that has arrived in this House is very different from the one originally presented, so it has certainly been done an important job in the Commission to deal with the serious situation facing the Campania Region, where - I repeat - there are 70,000 killing orders and another 200,000 sub-iudice cases. We are therefore perhaps also aware of the difficulty in working and working on an attempt to launch a text which could respond to this emergency. However, in my opinion, we must absolutely avoid - and I repeat Senator Casson's speech - that the list of priorities submitted in such a rigid way, rather than helping this selection process, becomes an obstacle to the action of the judiciary, which before intervening should classify all illegal buildings: a huge job, the difficulty of which cannot escape anyone. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that all of this, among other things, could be subject to judicial appeals every time, so in fact blocking all demolitions. We have also proposed an amendment, like the other two which have been pointed out, to 1.23 which would replace the word 'observe' by a formula which we believe is much more corresponding to an act of direction of judicial action: 'adopted preferentially'. This would certainly also allow compliance with those priorities, but it would once again avoid lengthening the time frame and appeals. I believe that a change could actually be a guarantee that this situation will finally come to fruition; otherwise, I would not want to think once again that a very complex work has been done, but that in the end the result, which was perhaps what was initially to be achieved, is that in fact all the demolitions (which, as was originally expected, were given to the prefects) are once again blocked. I therefore think that a reasoning, an additional reflection on the fact of indicating to the magistrates the priorities, could really be an act of assurance if we really want to realize what is written in the title of the measure, otherwise the title would be absolutely contradictory with respect to the results that would be achieved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u28	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the various speeches that have taken place on this subject. While understanding the different positions, the thing that I have extremely clear is that there is not on the part of many an understanding of what is really the phenomenon in a given region. There are bell-tower senators on all sides, who obviously know that specific social phenomenon well, and they will be able, if they wish, to deny my words, if my words were to deviate from the scheme of truth. What is the basic principle? That building abuse constitutes a crime, that the abusive artifact must be demolished: on this there is total sharing by all. But in this which seems to be a principle in itself stainless certain variables are inserted. The first (nobody wants me to): the 2003 pardon, which has been applied throughout the national territory, did not have any application in Campania, because of two regional measures declared illegitimate by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, since I have heard speeches of a numerical type, those 70,000 demolition orders, in addition to the other 150,000-200,000 criminal proceedings specifically pending, have not been able to find a solution within the regulatory frameworks, precisely because of those regional measures declared illegitimate by the Constitutional Court. I am referring to a pardon that, on the other hand, has been applied throughout the national territory, bringing, for example, to 370,000 condons in Veneto, to about 400,000 in Lazio and to other hundreds of thousands individually in all the regions of the national territory. Abuseable artifacts must be killed. I agree. In Campania there are 70,000 demolition orders; due to the repression activity about 50-60 artifacts are killed a year, which is equivalent to saying, because of the lack of financial resources, the absence of special landfills where to go to fix the demolition, in the absence of the possibility of reassignment of those who inhabit the abusive artifacts, that with 60 demolitions a year it takes 18 centuries to demolish these 70,000 homes. It is clear that this problem can be solved differently. It can be solved at the general level, as the Group of the PdL has repeatedly tried to do during the previous legislature, trying, as it is right that both and it was right that it was, a reopening of the terms of the pardon, evidently with reference to the cases that had at the time of the pardon the possibility of returning to it, or intervening on the demolitions. Leaving the first road, which in the previous legislature has always found strong the opposition of the Democratic Party and the center-left (let's call it so), has tried in the Commission justice to introduce a different measure, which has a specific meaning: to try to standardize the criteria with which to proceed to the overthrows on the whole national territory, because it really is not possible, for example, that in a part (speak of Campania) of the Campanian territory viga, because of the position of that competent judiciary per territory, the chronological criterion and in other parts of the Campanian territory apply completely different criteria, evidently with an unequal treatment of citizens on a living meat as it is the killing of the house where you live, so not easily tolerable. For example, it must be explained to me whether you think it is right, on the basis of the chronological criterion, to tear down a house "abuse of necessity" where, hypothetically, a child lives heavily handicapped; a house built without architectural barriers that perhaps comes down on the basis of a chronological criterion, while a five-star hotel, certainly the object of speculation, is not shot down. The chronological criterion cannot in itself be a criterion that guarantees fairness. And then he imagined in the Commission justice, fully reaching the agreement, to evaluate the protocols, the circulars and the self-regulations that had been given the prosecutors of the Republic of the territory, often in full harmony with the other institutions. And we have followed in the formulation of the criteria, exactly those that are indicated in the protocols of the prosecutors of the Republic. The acts of the Commission - I do not, of course, mention any names - have a measure by a prosecutor from the Republic, which, in indicating the demolition criteria that will be followed in the territory within its competence, writes that it is intolerable that the general prosecutor follows a completely different criterion (the chronological one) and does not hold a coordination meeting with all the other prosecutors; it hopes that this coordination will ensure unity of conduct throughout the territory of Campania. Then I ask all of you, beyond the moralisms and so many other things: do you think it is more correct to break down a house that is not finished or a house where a family lives? Is it more correct to break down a house that is in danger of collapse or a home where a family lives? Is it more correct to break down a house of speculation, an object of speculation, or a house where a family lives? Is it more correct to break down a house used by people under trial for mafia or similar crime or a home where a family lives? That is the point of this measure, nothing but that. And get it over with, once and for all, get it over with with the taboos! I know perfectly well that this measure may not please certain associations or certain leagues. Has the environment been violated? Yes, the environment has been violated. I would like to say to my colleagues at the League that, of course, there has probably been a strong disinterest in the institutions. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] But we can't really charge the poor people for the inertia of institutions. To these leagues and to these associations I would just like to say one thing: Excuse me, if there has been a violation of the environment, are you able to restore the environment in a short time? It takes 18 centuries to break down 70,000 homes. With this measure, we simply want to regulate according to equity the demolition action by the organs of the State and say: demolished, but demolished according to these criteria, and you cannot fail to consider that the so-called homes of necessity, where households live that have no other housing solution, cannot, by virtue of a chronological order, be the first in the demolitions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u29	We greet the students and professors of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education "De Marco-Valzani" in Brindisi, who are following the Senate's work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u30	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u31	Mr President, I would just like to ask for a moment's attention, because I have heard a number of incorrect statements. To the friends of the League, with whom I have worked with pleasure on many occasions and with whom I share a series of battles, I must say that this time they did not understand the issue we are facing. It's not about pardon. (Lamentations from the LN-Aut Group). When it came to correcting that abnormal situation created in Naples for the responsibility of the Region, governed by Mr Bassolino - as President Palma mentioned earlier - as a member of the Government, compared to the hypothesis of reopening the terms of the pardon, I opposed it, despite the fear that the Government would be beaten. So, let's clear the field from any condone hypothesis and let's go and evaluate the abnormal situation created, involving 70,000 housing units that are really many, but inferior to those already condoned in many regions of Italy, including our Northern regions. I have never enjoyed a pardon, but I have all the statistics, Region by Region, Province by Province. [[Senator Council's comments.]] The question is not forgiveness. The question is that we have 70,000 killings to do together: so why should the Senate, Parliament, intervene? The only reason is to ensure equal treatment between citizens. President Palma raised the question of what to do. Look, my problem is to guarantee equality. Citizens have equal rights. So do we want to check what happened that led us to this solution? As a Commission we have asked the prosecutors of the Republic of Campania and the Attorney General to send us the documents. Some prosecutors have adopted a protocol, which I have copied in this bill. It is a protocol currently applied in some prosecutors, such as Nola and Torre Annunziata. And not only that: these same prosecutors have concluded the protocols of understanding with the prefectures - I say this to Senator Casson who posed a problem of importance - which even have an external relevance of commitment and protocols of behaviour, adopted by the heads of offices, with the agreement of all the judicial staff of the offices themselves. In addition, there was an attempt at protocol and convention with the general prosecutors. I would like to give you an example, and I would like Senator Casson, who has asked for a specification, to listen to the case that I am about to present to you, an example that I have picked up personally in those attempts to verify the situation. Two brothers live in two abusive houses attacked. Both are condemned by the demolition order. A brother does not appeal and waits for the execution order to arrive. Since that prosecutor has adopted the Memorandum of Understanding to which we have referred and has other downfalls to make, the house has not yet been demolished. The other brother challenged the demolition order and the sentence of conviction was confirmed in the appeal. His house was demolished two years ago. I ask you: is this unequal treatment legitimate? We must intervene only because today it is Campania: if it were to be realized - but I think it will never happen again - a hypothesis of this kind, that is, a concentration of problems to be solved, in that case what should be done? We have decided not to draw up a rule for Campania, not to make assumptions of enlargement of the pardon, not to lay down specific rules for a given situation. We have decided to intervene on the general law, introducing a general criterion on the basis of what has been adopted for four years by some prosecutors without any confusion or criticism. In fact, some prosecutors always apply - and I always stress - and without any deviation those criteria for all killings. Senator Casson told me that we need to think about the possibility of motivating dissent. In relation to a single issue or measure, we can also consider how to build it; I repeat, however, that it can be done with respect to a specific hypothesis. Otherwise there would be the problem of the specific guarantee concerning uniformity of behaviour. In assessing the feasibility of this hypothesis (we can take into account the grounds for appeal and so on), protocols should have at least the same value as the protocol currently adopted. Finally, I call for another reflection. For the first time, we have adopted a measure which can benefit from what is normally the case in Germany. Many of you know that in that country it is possible to experiment with the laws, once approved, in a given Land: it is as if we were experimenting with a law in a region before applying it throughout the national territory. In this case, for three or four years we have had the testing of these rules in certain territories of Campania. This did not give rise to any confrontation; on the contrary, it has regularized the situation. Therefore, we are lucky to have, for once, a precise indication of the possibility of a rule and its effects; indeed, we should always be able to apply such a hypothesis. I don't have to teach any of us what Betti claimed as a social typicality that anticipates the legal typicality of contracts. Therefore, the legislator intervenes when a particular contractual form has become established in civil society and transforms it into a legal rule. The same thing happens in this case. This serves to ensure uniformity. I cannot understand Legambiente or associations that do not understand the scope. I am talking about a situation that we have acquired with documents and investigations on the spot and, therefore, it is possible to verify that today this measure is already operational in some territories of Campania. If, however, it were to provide for small changes that could serve to guarantee the uniformity of treatment to which we all aim, I would not oppose it, of course by carrying out a minimum evaluation to identify the text of a correct amendment. [[Applause from Senator Albertini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u32	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u33	Mr President, I think it is useful to quickly retrace the history of the draft law under consideration, recalling the fact that, compared to a first wording which the Government certainly did not agree with, the text has been substantially modified: it has been found, in fact, a point of balance and useful indications have been received from many prosecutors who, in my opinion, have identified - correctly - transparent priority criteria that allow citizens to understand how they are proceeding and what are the priorities that have been given the same proxy. Using this cloth, this useful precedent, the House and the Senate are trying to make these criteria, which give - I repeat - certainty and transparency and ensure uniformity of treatment, general rules. As I have already said, the text has been the result of a close confrontation between the political forces and represents a point of balance. Of course - as the rapporteur rightly said - there is a willingness on the part of the Government to assess further improvements that make the text fully consistent with the objectives set by the Senate and which the Government shares. In this sense, however, I would like to see a comparison of merit which allows us to reach an agreement on possible rewordings. 11:13 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u34	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u35	== The first standing Commission, which has examined the text proposed to the Assembly by the Commission on the substance of the draft law in its capacity, shall express, as far as its competence is concerned, an opinion which shall not preclude it. - on amendment 1,101 non-obstacles, provided that point (b) is deleted, since the provisions contained in paragraph 9-b have an effect on the constitutionally recognised autonomy, including in financial and accounting matters, of local authorities, in addition by imposing destination constraints; - on amendment 1.0,100 contrary opinion, since the provision provided for in that paragraph directly intervenes in the cases of sanatoria for unfair construction, a matter which is constitutionally reserved for the general competence of the regions; - on the remaining non-obstacles amendments; The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the draft law in title and the amendments thereto, shall, as far as it is within its competence, deliver an opinion which is not an obstacle to the text. With regard to the amendments, the opinion on proposal 01.102 is conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the inclusion, after the word "demolition," of the following: "with charges charged to the owner." The opinion is of simple opposition to proposals 1,101 and 1.0,100. On the remaining amendments, the opinion is not precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u36	We now come to the examination of the draft law, which consists of only Article 1, in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments aimed at including additional articles before Article 1 and the other amendments relating to the same article, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to Amendment 01.102, which is intended to prevent the actual precautionary measure of the seizure from failing and, in any case, the conviction for the offence of abuse, the property remaining in fact in the hands of the sentenced person, due to the lack of coordination or the overload of work of the prosecutors. The amendment in question seeks to ensure that the contested measure resulting from the actual precautionary measure which has failed is carried out in favour of the municipal administration and not of the sentenced person. Amendment 1,118 also tends to avoid another potential paradoxical situation. It is appropriate, in our opinion, that the ownership of the inhabited property that must be demolished be verified and photographed at the time of the investigation of the crime. In essence, in the face of a sentence of condemnation that establishes the demolition of the property and in the blackberries of the execution of such sentence it is possible (they are facts that happen) that the ownership of the property passes to third parties. In order to avoid this more or less intentional effect of circumventing the rule imposing the demolition, the amendment under consideration states that ownership of the property must be verified, verified and held firm at the time of the investigation of the crime, precisely because after years, however paradoxical it may seem, it happens that the property passes by hand and that the demolition operations are prevented by the different formal ownership of the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u38	Mr President, Amendment 01.101 stresses the need to block construction work in case irregularities are detected. In fact, if, even as a result of this investigation, the construction works continue, then it becomes more difficult, in the event that the process is completed, to proceed with the demolition operations, because it may happen that at that point the property is inhabited. So, in summary, amendment 01.101 establishes the immediate suspension of the work so that it is easier to demolish the property afterwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u39	Mr President, with Amendment No 1,100 we call for the deletion of Article 1 in its entirety for the reasons already highlighted by my fellow Members in general. We believe, in fact, that the insertion of an order of priority in the operations of demolition of the real estate can open a controversial phase or, in any case, give life to delays in the execution of the demolition orders. With regard to the demolition of dangerous buildings, Article 1 refers to a danger established for public and private safety. For the sake of better reading and always to avoid any disputes, we believe it is appropriate to add with amendment 1.107 to paragraph 1, paragraph "Art. 44-a (L) - Paragraph 1 (a) - after the words "inspected" - the words "administratively" or "trade union" - in this way it is possible to define the scope of the norm better. By way of amendment 1,113, on the other hand, where there is talk of the demolition of buildings with a significant environmental impact, it is proposed to replace the words "significant environmental impact" with "not significant environmental impact" because we believe that there should be no distinction between low and high impact in the face of a building built in areas where there can be a damage to the environment: it is, however, a damage to the environment. We believe that this amendment is also acceptable to our fellow Members. With regard to Amendment No 1,121, which was also mentioned by Senator Casson, we believe that the priority criteria set out in the draft law should be a mere indication of the demolition order. This, in order, in our opinion, to prevent the demolitions from being the subject of possible appeals and oppositions, or of difficulties in verifying the execution order. I wonder how the private citizen will be able to verify what the order is and whether this has been complied with if not by making requests for access to documents in the public prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u40	Mr President, the main problem for the municipalities, in the demolition of abusive artifacts, is that they do not have the resources to take down, because the municipality should take down the building abuse and then take advantage of those who have committed the abuse. Amendment 1,101 provides for a financial penalty of EUR 150 per cubic metre to be paid by the abuser, with a minimum of EUR 10,000. This money will go to a municipal bound fund that will use as an advance for demolition. Once the demolition is carried out will implement the re-valsa from the Municipality and the resulting sums will then be freely used by the Municipality for the maintenance of the roads or the public green. This also serves as a deterrent, because the minimum financial penalty of EUR 10,000 acts as a deterrent to all small abuses in the various municipalities. [[Senator Ruta's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to make a brief introduction to what I am able to say in the clearest possible way. A principle to which the 5 Star Movement does not intend to derogate is that they are not condoned and everything that is abusive is destroyed. We are therefore openly opposed to any rule which seeks to extend, derogate, heal, condon or suspend the killings. As is the case with this measure, the risk is that it will go in exactly the opposite direction to what is declared. Without amendment 1,109 and the other amendments - which have already been mentioned several times - which make the adoption of this list of priorities more flexible, there is a risk of paralysing the activities of prosecutors. In fact, there is a danger that a sanatoria will be found in this measure, with the text as it has been presented, which hides an intimate desire to stop the killings. Attention: if before breaking down a tourist village the magistrate must check the livelihood of all the dangerous houses, or of the unfinished buildings or go to check if there are buildings used for criminal purposes and then maybe buildings owned by boss mafias, it is obvious that nothing will be done about it. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] The objective proposed by amendment 1,109 is, therefore, to substantially restrict the list of priorities in such a way as to limit the risk of legal recourse in order to block the killings. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u42	Mr President, Amendment No 1,123 which we have tabled attempts in some way to do a damage reduction operation, so to speak, because it is clear to everyone that at a very clear and explicit time when it is envisaged, through the word 'observes', the obligation for the judiciary to respect those priorities, beyond the acceptance of those priorities, that becomes a clever escamotage in order to ensure that all the measures, as other Members have just said, can in some way be challenged in order to verify whether that order of priority has been respected or not, and moreover it also means risking covering up the necessary checks and further censuses that must be made at that point. The obligation, therefore, becomes in fact the smart tool not to arrive at any demolition. On the other hand, we have also heard the speeches of Senator Palma, President of the Commission, and also of the rapporteur, and it is clear to everyone that the bill presented by Senator Falanga, from which the whole procedure, amended in the Commission, began, was simply born from this purpose, after all the attempts that had been made, also through further condonions through regional laws that had not gone into port. I would also like to say, Mr President - and you know this perfectly well - that some prosecutors, such as Santa Maria Capua Vetere, have already complied with a number of those priority criteria; for example, before intervening with the demolition of homes of people who had nowhere else to stay, they took account of this situation. So why include the obligation to follow that list of priorities? I think it is right (and I am also somewhat comforted in this sense by the Secretary) that we should try to reason and transform that obligation instead into a priority, because the obligation becomes neither more nor less than the de facto escapism for yet another disguised pardon, because nothing will be demolished anymore.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u43	Mr President, we do not deny that there is and is a serious problem, but with Senator Palma's speech the cards have been a little open, because there has been talk of a pardon that has not happened in Campania and it has also been said that the need is to protect homes of necessity. Reference has been made to the poor sick child in the father's house who cannot afford any other home, and then I, clearly supporting amendment 1.0.101 to my signature, also support Senator Cappelletti's amendment 1,109, which I consider even more important, for the consolidation. If you really want to protect the homes of first necessity, in fact, just make two combinations: that of all the other criteria and then that of the homes of first necessity, because it is not good communication to leave this House with a measure that puts in fourth place the buildings to be demolished that are in the availability of subjects condemned for mafia crimes, fifth place those of important environmental impact or built on state property and sixth place the buildings of complexes or tourist villages. I should like to ask Senator Palma, who is well aware that it will take eighteen centuries, what will he say tomorrow to these gentlemen of these categories if this priority criterion passes. How long can they stay in their homes? Then two categories must be for the execution of the destructions: the houses of non necessity, all, and then the houses of necessity! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u44	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u45	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u46	Mr President, as I said in my reply, I am calling for the withdrawal of amendment 01.100. Otherwise, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u47	Senator Buccarella, do you accept the invitation to withdraw the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u48	No, Mr President, we maintain amendment 01.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u49	Similarly, on Amendment 01.101 I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u50	Senator Scibona, do you accept this invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u51	No, Mr President, we maintain Amendment 01.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u52	Mr President, I give an explanation of the opinion that has just been expressed. Both the first and second amendments are based on a wrong interpretation. The first amendment refers to cases where it is impossible to use the seizure, while there is always the possibility. This inclusion would therefore limit the effectiveness of Article 27. Thus for the second amendment, where it states that the site must be seized when it is found that the order of suspension of work is not complied with. This is not the case, as the order for suspension of work is currently being given and the seizure can be carried out without the need for compliance with the order of suspension of work. The seizure is carried out exclusively by the mayor's order, which can very well be implemented regardless of whether or not there has been a suspension of the work. Look, we are talking about including, with amendments 01.100 and 01.101, a serious and restrictive change within the regulatory system on building violations, and that is not what we want. Amendment 01.102 provides that, in the event of a conviction ordering the demolition, any seizure must be carried out in favour of the municipal administration. Apart from the fact that if we were to approve the amendment, we would have to add "except in the event of the seizure being lifted due to the lack of assumptions," this is not the case here too. [[Senator Palma's comments.]] But excuse me, it's better to explain it to him! It is expected that the discequestro must be carried out in favor of the Municipality, but to the Municipality the work has already gone, because the general norm emphasizes that when the discrepancy occurs, before the seizure order is adopted the work is already assigned to the Municipality. Do you want to insert this further rule that is wrong? I call for the withdrawal of amendment 01.102, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion is also opposed to amendment 1,100. Amendment 1,101 is extraneous to the subject for the reasons already stated and therefore the opinion is against it. The opinion was also opposed to Amendment No 1.102. On Amendments Nos 1,103 and 1,123 I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u53	Senator De Petris, do you accept this invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u54	No, Mr President, I maintain Amendment No 1.123.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u55	The call for withdrawal also applies to Amendments Nos 1,104, 1,105 and 1,106, otherwise the opinion is opposed. As far as the latter is concerned, I give a statement of reasons, namely that the criterion contained in this amendment is already laid down and of course cannot come before that of the buildings that are dangerous to be demolished or those in which criminal activity is taking place at that time. With regard to Amendments 1,107 and 1,108, I call on the authors to withdraw them, otherwise the opinion is against them. On Amendment 1,109 I believe that we can adopt the amendment that I referred to earlier - we could check the availability of others - which provides for the possibility for the prosecutor to deviate from the individual case by specifically justifying, with the exception of the last three letters, housing; we can write that amendment, which I was doing. CUOMO (PD). Can we put him down? CALIENDO, rapporteur. Yeah, let's put him away. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 1,109 is therefore set aside. CALIENDO, rapporteur. For all the other amendments until 1.1222 I call on the authors to withdraw, otherwise the opinion is against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefani, do you accept the invitation to withdraw the rapporteur? STEFANI (LN-Aut). No, Mr President, we maintain our amendments. CALIENDO, rapporteur. Amendment 1.0.100, tabled by Senator Milo - to whom I call for the same withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is opposed, precisely in order to avoid the always talking of pardon - poses a problem which has given rise to different decisions of the Court of Cassation. In particular, the criminal section of the Court of Cassation, in a 2012 judgment, said that the limit of the cube of 750 cubic meters does not apply to non residential buildings and, therefore, has acquitted. In civil, on the other hand, at the Court of Cassation and in the Council of State, it has always been considered that this limit of 750 cubic meters concerns non residential buildings but, according to them, the issue of the oblation is limited. Indeed, there is this contrast in case law, but my call for withdrawal is intended to prevent the question of pardon in this measure. I hope that the Senate can provide clarification of an interpretation problem. Finally, on Amendment 1.0.101 I would like to call for a withdrawal, otherwise the opinion would be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u58	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask for a clarification. I didn't understand some of the opinions Senator Caliendo gave. At one point he referred to a rewording he was making or a proposal from him in relation to an amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It concerns Amendment No 1,109, I think. CASSON (PD). I don't think so, because he asked for the provision on the basis - I think I understand - of a reformulation he is doing. If so, I believe that before proceeding with the Government's opinion too, it would be appropriate to wait for the rapporteur's proposal so as to have the full picture. Otherwise, we are not able to understand, and even the government may have some problems. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Caliendo has completed the reformulation. For what amendment?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u59	Mr President, more than a rewording would be an amendment by the rapporteur, who has taken the brunt of the intervention of Senator Casson and others. My proposal is that, after paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the draft law, the following additional paragraph 3 is inserted: The public prosecutor may depart from the above criteria, with the exception of those set out in points (i), (l), (m) and (i) (i) (i.e. only housing) and with reference to the individual case and giving specific reasons for this. This would therefore allow the prosecutor to disregard the priority referred to in paragraph 1. Beware: it is an exception that in those protocols adopted by the prosecutors there is no; we add it, so as to ensure the possible overcoming of any difficulties in which one should find oneself. CASSON (PD). So with the exception of the criteria set out in points (i), (l) and (m)? CALIENDO, rapporteur. Yes. Amendment 1,109, on which the opinion is therefore opposed, is therefore exceeded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So Amendment 1,109 is no longer put aside. Let's hear the government representative's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u60	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u61	The deadline for submitting sub-amendments to the rapporteur's amendment is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u64	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like a clarification from Senator Caliendo in order to be able to better assess the scope of his proposal. I would not like to say that the prosecutor may depart from the criteria, with the exception of those referred to in points (i), (l) and (m), which may give rise to problems of interpretation. What do we mean by this arrangement? Can the public prosecutor derogate from the order in the case of an order for the demolition of a building falling within one of those three categories? Because it could be interpreted - I fear - also in a different way, in the sense that categories i), l) and m) - and only those - are free, in fact, to be able to be arranged in an order that is not knowable. Perhaps I misunderstand, but I am trying to identify myself with the interpreter to try to understand what is meant by this norm.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u65	I welcome this observation and rephrase the amendment as follows: The public prosecutor may derogate from the order of the criteria referred to in paragraph 1, with the exception of those referred to in points (i), (l) and (m) with regard to the individual case and give specific reasons for the reasons given.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u66	Therefore the derogation is in the order of the criteria, because the article speaks of priority criteria. I think that is correct. Is that clear, Senator Buccarella? Okay?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u67	I wish I could have a few moments to read this new version.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u68	It is understood that the public prosecutor may derogate from the order of the criteria referred to in paragraph 1, with the exception of points (i), (l) and (m) for which there would be no derogation. BUCCARELLA (M5S). The text I have been given is different. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has already changed: there is the becoming of politics. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Too bad! After so many months in the Commission, it would have been nice and useful for everyone to be able to look at these matters a little more rationally. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But this House is always sovereign. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Can I have the final version read by Senator Caliendo? The version I have still speaks of "deviating" while I heard about "derogare". Maybe in the meantime you could expect a short recess.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u69	No need, Senator Buccarella: copies are coming. In the meantime, let's move on. I call on the Government representative to comment on the rapporteur's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u70	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u71	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u74	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would actually have liked to have requested a few minutes' suspension, but at this point I take the opportunity to request a roll-call vote by electronic voting on all the amendments referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u75	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Buccarella and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 01.100. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 01.101 tabled by Senator Scibona. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.102 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 01.102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,100 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u78	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, I disagree with the rapporteur that Amendment 1,101 is not relevant to this matter. However, I am willing to withdraw it and turn it into an agenda. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 580
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u79	So let's cancel the vote. (The vote was cancelled.) In fact, we were voting on Amendment No 1,100; I thought you wanted to speak on 1,100 on which there was an open vote. At this point, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda G1.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u80	Precisely because of what I said earlier, I am in favour of adopting the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u81	I accept the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u82	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,100 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.102. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,102 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.103. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,103 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.123. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,123 tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,104. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,104 tabled by Senator Cappelletti. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.105. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,105 tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.106. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,106 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.107. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1,107 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.108. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,108 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.109. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,109, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u85	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I understand that Amendment 1,109 was put aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u86	Senator Montevecchi, I declare the vote closed, otherwise we fall into the mistake of before. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. Amendment 1,109 was replaced by the rapporteur's amendment 1,200 (text 2); therefore, the opinion was opposed precisely because there is amendment 1,200 (text 2). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,110. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.110, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,111. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,111 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. Amendment 1,112 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.113. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,113 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. Amendments 1,114 and 1,115 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,116. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,116, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. Amendment 1,117 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.118. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,118, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,119. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,119 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,120. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,120 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,121. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1,121 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.122. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,122, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. I note that Amendment 1,200 (text 2/1), of which I am reading: 'To Amendment 1,200 (text 2) delete the words from 'except those' until the end '. I invite the presenter to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u87	Mr President, with sub-amendment 1,200 (text 2)/1 we try to recall the text of one of our amendments rejected by the House just now and aimed at establishing not an obligation, but an indication of priorities for the judiciary. The purpose of the sub-amendment is therefore to establish that it is possible to derogate from the criteria laid down in paragraph 1 of Article 1. For this reason, it provides for the deletion of the reference to the criteria set out in points (i), (l) and (m) and also the obligation to give specific reasons for the derogation. With the rapporteur's amendment - this strengthens our judgment - we risk getting into a very complex situation, with appeals and counter-rejections and therefore with the paralysis of any possibility of killing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u88	I am against Amendment 1,200 (text 2/1).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u89	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u90	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200 (text 2/1). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,200 (text 2/1) tabled by Senator De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). (Senator Montevecchi asks to intervene.) There is an open vote. I declare the vote closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. I need the cooperation of the Secretary Senators and the offices, which I have been given. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u93	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I understand the difficulty, but I asked you for two minutes' suspension before. Now, I don't see why jobs have to be carried out in such a hurry, risking messing up. We did not even have the text of Mr De Petris' sub-amendment. You can't work like this, I'm sorry. I asked her for two or three minutes of suspension to give everyone a chance to participate and not to create these messes, which then make them lose those famous three minutes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u94	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u97	Do you announce the submission of a sub-amendment, Senator Buccarella? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, I was desperately trying to get the sub-amendment to the offices, in the indeterminate timing and ten minutes allowed before, when we had not yet had the text of the amendment. Now tell me how to proceed. I can formulate it now: it's very simple. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can read it. BUCCARELLA (M5S). With regard to amendment 1,200 (text 2), our sub-amendment aims to delete points (i) and (l). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Therefore, only point (m) would remain with respect to the rapporteur's amendment. BUCCARELLA (M5S). That's right. That's our sub-amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u98	I would ask the rapporteur to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u99	Mr President, in my opinion, we have already voted on this. In any case, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u100	The letter m remains. Therefore, according to the rapporteur's opinion, having already been voted on the sub-amendment preceding 1,200/1, which included the deletion of all three letters, sub-amendment 1,200 (2/2 text) would be precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u103	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I understand the needs, but in this case we are faced with situations which, in fact, make it difficult for the offices themselves to contribute to the orderly development of the work. Perhaps the text of Mr De Petris' sub-amendment came to the Presidency before our own.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u104	Senator De Petris sits closer. In any case, let us resume the order of business. You, Senator Buccarella, have proposed a sub-amendment whose text has arrived at this time. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have been asking you for the floor for 15 minutes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Secretary Barani didn't see you. I'm asking you for a moment of patience, because we're running out of time. VOLPI (LN-Aut). My colleagues have spoken four times, and I have not been able to have the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Before you, Senator Volpi, asked Senator Casson for the floor on the sub-amendment now under consideration. I'm asking you for patience to wait. VOLPI (LN-Aut). President, give me the floor. I've been notified by Senator Secretary Barani. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Secretary Barani only reported his request to me after Senator Casson's. VOLPI (LN-Aut). It's outrageous! You have favorite interlocutors. CASSON (PD). Mr President, I asked you to speak in an explanation of vote on sub-amendment 1,200 (text 2/2). VOLPI (LN-Aut). I've been asking you eight times. Holy shit!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u105	Can we cooperate? We are giving a good example to the students of the Istituto comprensivo "Sandro Pertini" of Martinsicuro, in the province of Teramo, whom we thank for following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200 (text 2/2). Senator Casson, you can speak in an explanation of vote. [[Comments from Senators Centinario and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u107	Mr President, with regard to the explanation of vote I requested just now, I would like to point out that the two sub-amendments in question, of which one has already been voted, are very different from one another. While Senator De Petris' sub-amendment would essentially lead to the exclusion of two thirds of the rapporteur's amendment, Senator Buccarella's sub-amendment merely deletes two specific letters, but I must add that the intentions are also very different, as well as the legal effect. So, whenever you like, on sub-amendment 1,200/2 I will have to make an explanation of vote, because you would agree with me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u108	Senator Casson, you just made this explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u109	CASSON (PD). If you will allow me, Mr President, the reason why I believe that Senator Buccarella's sub-amendment can be accepted is of a social nature and is extremely important. Taking note of the concept explained by the rapporteur Caliendo to allow some derogations from the criteria referred to in paragraph 1, according to the indications formulated, it is understandable that the same can not be allowed for buildings inhabited by persons belonging to households that do not have any other accommodation solution. I believe that this concept must be protected that those who do not have a home must be absolutely protected. In this case, then, the letter m) I think can stay out of discretion. For the rest, I believe that the remaining criteria are good.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u112	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am no longer speaking on this amendment, but I just want to make one comment. I apologise to my colleagues for getting angry from time to time, but I have been trying to talk for 15 minutes; the President of the Senate, however, is having a privileged relationship with Senator Casson (who has no fault of it) and with some other senator. That's not funny, ma'am. You're the President of all of us. When the Senator Secretary has signaled to you for 15 minutes my request for intervention, please, without taking anything away from the other colleagues, you must also give the floor to me. That sounds normal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u113	Senator Volpi, you start on the wrong assumption that Senator Secretary has been reporting your request for intervention to me for 15 minutes. Senator Barani is here and can confirm that. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Explain to me why you've given Senator Casson the floor several times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask you to stick to the proper conduct of your speech. I gave you the floor, Senator Volpi. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Forget it, President, go ahead and deal with them: talk to Casson or whoever you want. We're here to listen to you. You, as President of the Senate, do what you want! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I direct the order of business according to the requests for intervention. You have the right to intervene: if you want to take advantage of it, do so. VOLPI (LN-Aut). I can tell you one thing: do not allow yourself to say that we set the bad example for students: you are setting a bad example! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] It will be the students who judge the behavior of this House. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Candiani's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u116	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, with regard to Amendment 1,200/2, tabled by Senator Buccarella, I would like to explain why the reference to point (i) to paragraph 1 of Article 1 is to be excluded. Since point (i) refers to residential buildings, whose ownership is attributable to persons belonging to households with other housing solutions, it can be imagined what we are talking about. This is, for example, the case of a large condominium, built abusively, occupied by a person, which therefore cannot be demolished. Theoretically, we're also talking about the big abuses. When we propose to exclude letters i) and l), we talk about the great abuses. This is not about the abuse of those who build the house because perhaps in some municipalities - unfortunately in Campania it happens - for fifty years regulatory plans have not been adopted. It is not justifiable, but it is understandable, because the inertia of politics has produced these craps. Therefore, politics is the fault; all of us who are in here now must take on this guilt. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It must be understood, however, that we must intervene on the great abuses. So, a ten-storey building where a person who may have another home will never be demolished, if we leave the reference to letter i in place. The logic, therefore, is to seek a right solution, condemning all abuses, but considering whether the person has another home. We must try to understand why this is a primary good and perhaps the abuse of the inertia of the municipality has been done. So, it's the city's fault. But great abuses must be demolished: it is mandatory. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u119	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I tabled my sub-amendment first, perhaps because I am closer to the Presidency, but as you can see, we always have difficulty in asking for the floor. [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] I asked to intervene for a very simple reason. Senator Buccarella is right. We asked for the sitting to be suspended briefly because all the votes - at least the previous ones - took place without knowledge of the facts for some Members. Mr President, the vote has now been taken, but I would like to point this out. When amendments are tabled by the rapporteurs and their sub-amendments - in this case, however, there were few amending proposals - it is necessary to give the opportunity to all senators to be aware of what is being voted on. In this case, since there were other sub-amendments, one could reason. On the limit, Mr President, I should like to request the annulment of the previous vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and the distribution to all senators of the text of the sub-amendments that we are about to vote on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u120	Senator De Petris, not to be controversial, but I would like to remind you that a deadline has been set for the submission of sub-amendments, and those who have come to the Presidency, like yours, have been voted on. We now have the confidence that there is another sub-amendment and we are about to vote on it. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). But all I said was that they had to be distributed in order, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Caliendo, can you repeat your opinion on Amendment 1,200 (text 2/2)?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u121	Mr President, I think I have made myself very clear. The opinion is opposed because it is also necessary to consider the case referred to in point (i). [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u122	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 1,200 (text 2/2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u123	Mr President, I am going back to the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u124	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200 (text 2/2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1,200 (text 2/2), tabled by Senator Buccarella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u127	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out to this House and to those who listen to us from home that we, with the excuse that we want to protect those in need, including the letter (i) of paragraph 1, Article 1, are also including the second houses. This is something to keep in mind when false populism [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Council Senator]] , which is the ugliest thing of populism, is expressed. The letter l) then is somewhat ambiguous. I have not yet understood, after so much discussion, what is meant by the expression "other buildings" not included in the above categories. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u130	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to remind you that the second houses are specifically indicated in point (g), so they are not covered here. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u131	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,200 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.0.100, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1.0.101 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Cioffi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 580 president. Since the additional amendments have been rejected, the vote on Article 1 will not be taken, as it is a single article, but the final vote will be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u134	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments and an alarm, as well as announcing the vote against. I am not at all convinced that the second houses will not be included in that attention not to demolish which contains the measure under consideration. With the second houses, in fact, just move a joint and they become the first home of that joint: it is a system, a scam often used. It is difficult for local administrators, for those who want to defend the territory and for those who want to defend the landscape goods to continue to do so with measures like this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u135	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u138	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, the Civic Choice Group for Italy will vote in favour of this measure, despite the fact that it is acting on an emergency situation in which we would all be happy not to have to legislate. However, we believe that the compromise reached between the need to protect the landscape and the correct methods of construction and the need to establish reasonable criteria, which have already been used in specific cases already in place, is balanced. Therefore, I declare my Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u141	D'ANNA (GAL). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Grandi Autonomous and Freedom Group is in favour of the adoption of this draft law, although it does not fully grasp the needs of some 70,000 families living in a region that has not been able, as far as I can tell, to fully benefit (only in Italy) from the measure of condoning the building launched by the Berlusconi Government, and this for well-known reasons. 12:18 p.m. (Follow D'ANNA). First of all, the Regional Council, at the time presided over by Governor Bassolino, felt that it did not apply in all its parts and in all its entirety the provision of pardon launched by the Government; in fact, it reduced the cubes that were possible to heal and increased (I would not want to err, but I believe even tripled them) the burdens of construction and those of sanatoria of the abusive artifacts, thus establishing two limitations: the first, in order to what was the dimension of the sanatoria; secondly, with the preventing to numerous families, especially those socially more distressed that therefore had resorted to the so-called abuse of necessity, to heal with the pardon the work carried out, as deprived, therefore for lack of money. I remind the House and myself that that regional law was later declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, while in every other part of Italy there were other rules - I remember the paradox that the Region Marche, also governed by a center-left Junta, modified the national law allowing an increase of the cubes absentible for sanatoria - in the Campania Region most of those 70,000 families could neither heal or heal the volumes that could be healed in the other Regions nor access to sanatoria anyway also because the Cassazione confirmed the constitutionality of the measure that established the increase of the costs of construction and the burdens of urbanization that the Junta Bassolino had introduced. Beyond all the demagogy that someone here wanted to shock by standing up as a defender of the environment, it is good to specify two things: you cannot be on the side of the citizens every other day, nor can you overlook the fact that there has been a culp on guard by public administrations, which, unarmed, not to say accomplices, have allowed these abuses on the territory. It is the usual history of political clientelism, which in the south of Italy finds numerous proselytes (on the other hand, liberal philosophers say that professional clients make voters). So we understand very well why there has been so much inattention to abuse. What we are going to approve today is only the graduation and a specification of the methods of killing. We do not healthy the vulnus, nor do we restore the right of the citizens of Campania to apply the control tout court, as has been done in the other regions of Italy: we go only to grade the penalty and to regulate, in agreement with the same prosecutors, a phenomenon that in itself is aberrant, and affects about half a million people. Yesterday I heard here from Senator Lumia a goodist molasses against the illegals, in favour of whom we seem to have abolished (at least when committed for the first time) the crime of illegal entry in this country (which is now like the Stand: open doors for all), except then reapply this crime if it is repeated. It's a bit like saying that rape the first time isn't a crime, but if one tries again, the second time it's sanctioned. On the other hand, however, this goodness is not intended to apply to Italian citizens, who - I repeat for the third time: I say this to the friends of the 5 Star Movement - have not been able to enjoy the same healings of the law on pardon wanted by the Berlusconi Government. It is a fact that still remains inexplicable, because we with this measure go to codify the modalities, the typologies and the priorities through which the demolitions must take place, waited that it is to take down 70,000 abusive artifacts, obviously in the majority of cases they are abuses of necessity that concern the first house, they do not concern the palazzinari or the speculators, but always of overthrows we are talking about. We should then ask ourselves the question: when is it that this Parliament will do justice to the citizens of Campania, so that they can fully enjoy what has been granted to the citizens of the other regions of Italy? That is why what we are going to approve today is a warm cloth, a thin consolation for those who should have enjoyed in the first instance the possibilities that have been recognized to others. We must thank those who strongly wanted this measure, because it has been circling for several years now. The Senators Palma and Falanga, who acted effectively within the Justice Commission, themselves witnesses of the discomfort and tragedy that the representatives of families, of those who had to resort to abuse, indeed, of necessity, were themselves witnesses of this widespread phenomenon. Let me say, not out of controversy, to the friends of the PD - who, when this measure was strongly proposed by the then PdL in Campania, have dressed the shoes of the intransigent, then mature and mitigate this intransigence with respect to the naked and raw reality of the facts - that here we are not favoring neither speculators nor businessmen, and less than less camorristi; we are favoring, within the limits that this law allows (which, as I have already said, are partial and unjust, because they do not equate the benefits directed to these families with those provided by the law on condoning as happened in other parts of Italy), the poor people: people who do not have a job, people who live and marry but have no place to establish their own home. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, I invite you to conclude. D'ANNA (GAL). We will vote in favour of this measure, not least because the day will have to come in this nation when there will no longer be a need for pardon; but this can only be done if Parliament adopts stringent rules for local administrators, such as decadence, where abusive artifacts arise and where urban planning or general regulatory plans are not approved. [[Applause from Senators Langella and Falanga. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u144	ALBERTINI (PI). Madam President, I would like to point out that the Per l'Italia Group is approaching the vote in favour of this draft law, which contains provisions for the rationalization of powers for the demolition of abusive artifacts, in the spirit in which we approach cases of necessity rather than of election. We are faced with a truly unmanageable situation, which we have sought with a generous effort to remedy with rationalization criteria. Suffice it to say, as it has been remembered until recently, that in Campania there are over 70,000 demolition orders in executive and 210,000 the ongoing procedures; this, in order to represent visually the scenario, would amount to having to raze to the ground the entire city of Naples, and I do not think it would be enough even this to heal these cases really diffused and consolidated over time. Over time, building abuses have developed in a stratified way: it has been added to this case-law of illegality declared, perceived and recognizable also the failure to apply the last building conditions, because of the declaration of unconstitutionality of the regional laws that allowed them. Therefore, the problem of how to solve equivalent housing units, where to transfer the rubble and where to place the inhabitants, has intervened with a criterion of rationalization, which is the remedy for an evil that we would like to be able to erase, without succeeding. As you know, the contrast to building abuse runs on a double track: the one entrusted to the prefect, the representative authority of the government, as responsible for public order, and the one resulting from the criminal convictions for building abuse, for the demolition of abusive works that cannot be healed. We have tried, with this measure, also through a careful analysis of the protocols that some prosecutors of the territory, in particular Castellammare di Stabia, had made, to identify the criteria of the priorities through which to follow a logical and chronological itinerary of the demolitions. We have also established criteria that are as least discretionary as possible, so as not to leave to the arbitrary, even qualified professionalism of our institutions, the choice of where to intervene. Article 44-a, which is expected to be included in the decree of the President of the Republic No 380 of 2001, thus sets out these priority criteria. The list briefly, starting with the conclusion: the economic value and the speculative character of the artifact (certain cannot be put on the same level the abuse of buildings for improper speculation, perhaps on state property, compared to the housing needs of a family, perhaps with a disabled person, who has done an intervention to make the property compatible with the condition of one of the members of the family); the need and availability of a housing solution as an alternative; cases of public safety; the functionality of these building abuses in relation to organized crime; the environmental impact of the abusive artifact not sanable and, as I said before, the settlement on the state property. The measure complies with these need for rationalization, introduces a stricter respect for the separation of powers in the field of combating building abuse and, as I repeat, avoids those conditions of injustice that could be determined with exquisitely discretionary criteria. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u147	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, senators, senators, I do not understand, and when I do not understand I usually ask a few questions, especially to those who, having submitted a measure, should be able to give answers which, however, to the point where we are, have not arrived. Is the measure what many who have spoken called a pardon measure, or is it what the title says? If that is what the title says, why do the presenters examine what happened due to inefficiency, inability, responsibility for politics and the local and national institutions, Campania and towards Campania, who could not intercept those legislative instruments of pardon which he has used (unfortunately, I add) the rest of the Regions of our country? Here there is a contradiction, which is not put suspiciously by those who oppose the measure, but by the presenters themselves. On the other hand, if the aim is consistent with the title and the aims formally stated, we should have reasoned on the indications suggested by us by the Left Ecology and Freedom, in the amendments and sub-amendments that we have tabled, and also by other opposition forces, which on this occasion cannot be accused of obtuse and blind obstructionism and ideological attitude. We have in fact entered into the substance of the issues, because we propose a measure that starts from the tragedy of Campania but which intervenes as a national law and we must then understand what will happen tomorrow throughout the territory in terms of defending the rights and the laws, of our shaky environmental system, especially hydrogeological, and of our coasts, since also in this House there have been proposals, not a thousand years ago but a few months ago, for the sale of the state property of the beaches. When establishing rules that are not political orientations on which to move the action of the judiciary and prosecutors, but real and proper constraints on the Campanian and national territory that may concern, as in letter f),.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We can find, in terms of close ties, cases of deep abuse also, for example, for what I know best, in a large part of the coast especially in southern Lazio, where in some cases there are also worrying phenomena of crime, which overlap also in terms of property. But we have made a joint arrangement - I remember the intervention of Senator Buccarella, whom I share - on another amendment tabled, so we have not bound the issue of property to the investigation of the crime. We are, therefore, in a situation in which faced with everything that can occur especially around important real estate realities we do not have an absolute instrument to give executiveity. We are a force - we can afford it, and it is not pride - that has never supported either local or national condones. We are a force that has had to commit itself also locally to remedy the ruins of the condonons by providing families and activities, once condoned the houses, with water, light, gas, transport and everything that makes civilized, therefore also condoned situations that have ended up burdening on all the citizens of the same area, city or locality. Here it is not a problem of the North, the South or the Centre, because this happened in the North, the South and the Centre. It can continue to take place because of the complications that are caused to the judiciary and prosecutors, which prevent them from intervening. Senator Palma said he made an account, so it will take a few centuries to complete a demolition program. Surely that is true, but it will take a few centuries here to begin the first in the light of this bill that you are about to vote on. It is not an abstract consideration; it is based precisely on the fundamental characteristics of some of the provisions of this article, at the time when you have indicated binding elements to be taken care of by the judiciary and prosecutors. That being the situation that you have represented - I have no reason to doubt it - let alone what it means to bring down this work on local prefectures and self-governments: it is a job for which it would take millions of hours, hundreds of days and months to prepare a criterion that, however, would obviously be exposed to all contradictions and disputes. In this case, who has more silk weaves and, in the context of the dispute, who has more money and resources will certainly assert them with greater cogency. I shall conclude, Mr President. I have listened to the reasoning that the government representative has made regarding some not ideological, but concrete, issues that have been posed. Which instrument are we proceeding with? At this point, not seeing an element of urgency and since - fortunately - it is not a decree, I thought that a minimum set of reflection would be possible. Instead, we continue to proceed in this way, even when we are not under the ax of decrees, deadlines and anything else. This means that there is no will, and that the title that has been given to the bill fits into the worst Italian tradition, to do exactly the opposite, to block any initiative that is aimed at cutting off the nails of a speculation that, not only destroyed the martyred territories of Campania, but fattens throughout the national territory, and above all on its coasts and its most valuable parts. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you that, according to the willingness of the groups, the sitting will continue until the final vote. I would therefore ask you to stay here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u151	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the bill in the vote gives a merciless picture of our country: unfortunately it is not the only one, but it is one of the many negative images. The measure addresses an inconceivable and absurd problem for us in the North League, especially for those who have been, or are still local administrators of Municipalities and Provinces. Despite the condons that have been there in 30 years, we learn that there are 70,000 buildings in Campania that already have the order of demolition. But, be careful, there is a triple number of investigation procedures that have already begun. We are talking about the consistency of a city as big as Naples that should no longer exist. It is truly an extensive phenomenon that has certainly caused enormous and irreparable damage to the same territory, economy and security and that demonstrates what we of the North League have been supporting for a long time: in Italy there are two different countries. It is this data and these documents that determine it. We wonder whether, with reference to housing units, commercial and craft, and studios, these 70,000 buildings pay for electricity, or whether the electrical system is improperly connected with flying cables to the electricity line of the ENEL distributor. We wonder if these units pay for gas and water for sanitary use and heating. We wonder if these units are registered at the land registry and, therefore, pay the IMU, the waste tax and if from this year they will pay the TASI. Well, we frankly doubt that. I give just one example, of the many I would have. In Casal di Principe - the prefectial commissioner told us this - 40% of the housing units are abusive. But you know what's scandalous? That even the remaining 60 percent does not have the water counter, and this is really indecent and represents an injustice, for example by thinking of those thousands and thousands of elderly people living in the North, who deprive themselves of bread from their mouths in order to absolve taxes, and who in these days are making rows of hours at the counters to pay your demenziale mini IMU and your demenziale TARES. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] From us in the North the municipalities are equipped with municipal regulatory plans; from us the Provinces implement the urban planning with the PTCP (the territorial plan of provincial coordination); from us the Regions operate own planning with the regional territorial plan; from us the Municipalities, in support of the plan of government of the territory, have also the geological study, with the classes of feasibility that establish the zones of inedificability; they have the plan of acoustic zoning; they have the VAS (strategic environmental assessment). From us there are the PAI (the hydrogeological settlement plan) to operate in the field of soil defense. On the front of natural disasters and hydrogeological failure by us most of the municipalities have equipped themselves with the emergency plan of civil protection. These contingency plans - I stress - are a risk forecasting tool; they contain all the operational procedures to deal with any disaster expected in the territory; they identify the responsible authorities that must prepare and coordinate relief interventions. In short, the question of forecasting and prevention of hydrogeological failure, which is certainly favoured by the scourge of abuse, is an important, discussed and in-depth issue in this House, where everyone has expressed their own intentions and hoped for resources, except then to discover a miserable allocation in the law of stability of EUR 180 million over the three years. Well, do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many municipalities in Campania have the said emergency plan? Only 39 percent, the lowest regional figure, against a national average of 76 percent. These are official data from the Civil Protection Department: this is a shame that we denounce. The urbanist instruments, of which the territorial authorities of the North have endowed themselves, are not only paper, but are implemented and enforced, and I assure you that if someone has built, for example, compared to the authorized project, a garage more than half a meter in respect of a torrent or in an area of landscape constraint there are no stories: you have to knock them down, you have to knock that boss down! In Campania, however, if anything, these urbanist instruments exist, they are rarely enforced. In fact, we record continuous scandals of building abuse like the ones we are facing today. But will someone be responsible? It is not that a building is born like a mushroom from evening to morning. Where were the mayors, the provincial presidents, the city officials, the control bodies, the ASLs and the ARPAs? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You can never find those responsible, not even Bassolino. Like the other emergencies, what - alas! - still see Campania as the protagonist in negative: the continuing bad management of waste, for which the country is paying very salty fines for European infringement procedures, the problem of the land of fires, which will come to us in days to the Senate. With the draft law under discussion that we are about to approve, we want to modify the single text of the building, which provides for the proper demolition of the buildings if they are built in the absence of a building permit, or in total discrepancies. So, given the huge amount of demolition orders and the slow down of the demolitions (50, maybe 60 maximum per year) we want to insert the priority criteria for the demolition order. It is a measure linked to a phenomenon that disconcerts us, disappoints us and makes us very furious: a phenomenon that for the citizens of the North, who may be following us live, is inconceivable and difficult to understand. With the criteria laid down to carry out the demolition orders, we want to avoid a social alarm, to take advantage of organised crime and those who speculated on the shoulders of those poor families that have only that housing unit, those honest citizens whose presence we recognize is high percentage, who perhaps have not even been protected by that notary, to be disbarred from the order, who at the time of the deed did not notice the purchase of an abusive apartment. I would point out, however, that the poor people, victim but also accomplice to a clientele and welfare system, live in Campania - and not only in that region - with an abnormal and not insignificant percentage of cunning, ruffles, criminals and criminals, administrators and politicians unable and irresponsible. This is not a national problem, as Mr Cuomo said, but it is an ethical, cultural and specific problem of those territories where the rules are constantly violated: it is here, Mr Nugnes, that the political, ethical, social and cultural revolution must be carried out. These disasters almost always affect the regions of the South, such as Campania, Sicily and Calabria. In recent days we have witnessed the scandal of the waste of Rome and Lazio: we can no longer make it, because in the end even in this circumstance as in the others it will always be Pantalone to pay, that is the North, that is the families and the enterprises of the North, as shown by the official data of the fiscal residues aggregated in regional areas. Starting with the conclusion, the North League considers that the list of priorities included, which will be worth, alas, throughout the national territory, is long and very questionable. For example, we would have preferred to have on top of the list buildings owned by mobsters or where criminal activities take place. Well, behind this list, to which the prosecutors must stick in the choice of the buildings to be demolished, hides the clear will to stop the ruspe, because, if, before breaking down of the houses built on the beach, the magistrate must necessarily demolish the dangerous houses, then those under construction and then those used for criminal purposes and those in the availability of the mob bosses, it is evident that nothing will be done. Already today the demolitions take place with the count drops, in fact between the order and the intervention of demolition spend several years marked by appeals. We believe that the obligation to check the conditions in the list means covering up bureaucracy and judicial redress, in fact blocking demolitions and giving a gift to abusers. For the North League this measure, with this hypocritical solution, is but yet another attempt to condone masked that is clumsily tried to bring to a successful conclusion. It is for these reasons that the North League will vote against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u154	D'ALI' (NCD). Madam President, the New Right Centre will vote in favour of the measure at the vote, although it is aware that in the end this is a bill of partial restitution to the citizens of Campania of their right, denied at the time by the Regional Council, to be able to participate in the forecasts of the 1994 national pardon. The Constitutional Court has rejected the regional law that this access had forbidden, but it seems that in this country (I hope that this fashion does not perpetuate on other sides) the Constitutional Court sentences apply according to political conveniences, and not according to a strict criterion of adaptation, which should be absolutely mandatory. Nevertheless, this issue has its roots in a long debate in the previous parliamentary term, when the centre-right had proposed that this possibility be given back to the citizens of Campania. There are ideological taboos against which we cannot go down on the level of reasonableness. Therefore, today's measure is aimed at tempering some initiatives, especially considering some social needs, which are absolutely relevant. However, it does not solve the problem at the root; just as it does not solve at the root the problem of an intervention that in our country I now consider improcrastinable. I am referring to a great project of environmental redevelopment of the building and the territory, which, following some guiding criteria (what could be that of safety, energy efficiency and urban and environmental quality), surely could also be a reason for the revival in the legality of a sector today absolutely forced to mark the step in our economic evolution, that of the building, which instead has always been one of the main axes of our economy. So - I repeat - let us also vary this provision. Certainly there will be a social advantage for certain areas of necessity; but this certainly is not the solution at the root of an equality problem, according to Article 3 of the Constitution, which had been denied to the citizens of Campania when they spoke of the 1994 pardon. We certainly need new legislation, which requires stricter controls, but which also simplifies the framework for access to building permits. When the General Regulatory Plans are not drawn up in time, when the building commissions (or who for them today in the municipal bureaucratic structure must give permissions), when the superintendences continue to pose incessant obstacles and above all referrals to the examination of the projects, there really lurks that abuse that may not be necessary, but very often is an abuse of exasperation, by citizens forced to travel from one office to another and very often subjected to the angeries of bureaucracy, even more than politics, in obtaining their rights. So we also take this measure as the opener of a measure of great national scope, that can give the urban and building sector a boost and accommodation in terms of legality, but also in terms of modernity, current and re-adapting the quality of the national building heritage to the standards that our parents had accustomed us (i.e., to the standards of avant-garde in the world) and that unfortunately today in our country mark a bit the step. We shall take it to that end and vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u157	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement announces its vote against this bill. I believe that the reasons are quite clear in this House. Faced with a legitimate and reasonable need, the one that promoted this bill, that is, to give rational and virtuous guiding criteria in the order of execution of the final judgments on the killing of abusive property, in the face of this reasonable requirement, especially with regard to the areas of Campania (as we have well learned), we placed ourselves in a collaborative and helpful way, in order to try to help solve this problem. Let us remember that we are not talking about accelerated measures, unfortunately, in the amount of demolition: much more limited this bill aims to give a uniform criterion, extending to all the national territory some practices considered virtuous put in place by some prosecutors, who have precisely established an order of execution material of the demolition orders relative to final sentences of condemnation. In view of this reasonable requirement, we have put ourselves, more usually, in a pragmatic and collaborative way: we have proposed amendments, we have discussed them in the Commission. There is a regret to be expressed, on which I believe that colleagues from other political forces will also want to agree: the regret that they have not found the time and the means, even in the Commission, to be able to reason on the improvements of the text. On the other hand, we have been forced - as we have seen and it is before everyone's eyes - to look for filings and compromises, even for reasons of political balance of the majority, which we do not care about. It would have been nice and appropriate to be able to reason calmly and happily productively, if the approach had not been under the sign of time running and immediacy in seeking last-minute solutions in this House, with amendments and sub-amendments. Next time we will have to train ourselves to make paper planes, so that perhaps we can get our sub-emerging proposals to the offices of the Presidency. Why do we vote against? In view of this need which we have understood very well from the outset, we had a fear, which perhaps has not yet been made clear in this House, and then we do so, knowing that we are also giving voice to the thoughts of senators who are not part of our political group. Behind the insertion of this order of demolition priority hides the risk that, in the face of a demolition operation, the subject concerned may raise the objection before the judicial authority based on the fact that, before its property, having the ruppa in front of the house, there are perhaps 1, 2, 100, 1,000, 10,000 buildings belonging to the previous categories. This could be a preventative fact and, therefore, justify an action to be put in place as an execution accident, because we are talking about the already final sentence of condemnation that establishes the demolition. In essence and in other words, behind the good intentions one can hide, unknowingly or perhaps even consciously, the will to be able to limit the number of demolitions, to hinder the few demolitions that can be done, giving the possibility to those who can afford it, to those who are stronger at an even economic level, to those who can afford a legal defense, to promote judicial actions in order to hinder the, although few and hesitant, actually demolishing initiatives of abusive real estate. With our amendments and also with the peaceful debate in this House with colleagues from other political forces, we have insisted on the adoption of some corrective measures, in the sense that we do not establish in a binding way to all those who procure that order, but rather to give a preference criterion, in order to protect the declared objective of the bill, that is, the protection of the poor Christ (sorry the term) who sees his own house demolished, the only house in which he lives with the family, having near or 100 meters away an abusive property, perhaps a large hotel still standing in contempt of any constraints of landscape or building order. Unfortunately, we did not manage to get our amendments through, or rather you did not: the parties did not want, with the excuse of the lack of physical time to coordinate these initiatives. However, from our point of view, you have missed the opportunity to accept some pragmatic and virtuous observations that would not have prevented the achievement of the reasonable aim and above all would not have exposed the side to initiatives to which I referred first, that is to say to defatigatory initiatives aimed at challenging demolition measures before the judicial authority. To our partial regret too, I confirm the vote against the text that the House is firing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u160	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on which we are called upon to act was the first act of legislative initiative which I deposited. This primacy is not accidental but, on the contrary, expresses the strong and urgent need to modify, rationalizing, the current system by which the demolition of abusive artifacts is carried out, characterized by numerous criticalities and improper structure. The urgency is particularly felt in the territories of the South, and especially in Campania. As also authoritative senators of the Democratic Party have recognized, the specificity of the Campania Region finds its origin, as well as in a lasting - luckily - demographic growth, also in the failure to apply to its territory the last measures of condoning building due to regional laws strongly desired by the then Junta of center-left, and then declared unconstitutional by the Consulta. However, I would like to stress that the issue is national, as well as national, are the proposed reform solutions. It should not be surprising, therefore, that they were tabled, both in the previous and in the current parliamentary term (I remember Mr Sarro in this regard), several draft laws intended to give some definitive answer to the problem. Allow me, however, to observe that, among all, what has seen me as the first signatory today has perhaps the small merit of not conveying any form of pardon, not even surreptitious, but on the contrary lays the basis for a more rational settlement, with a view to the principle of the separation of powers, of the sanctioning procedures of urbanist illicits, with particular reference to the demolition orders. The contrast to building abuse, in fact, is entrusted, in the system of laws in force (i.e. the decree of the President of the Republic June 6, 2001, n. 380), to a logic, as appropriately evidenced by the careful and educated Senator Albertini, of the double track, based either on the repressive action of the judicial authority or on that of the administrative authority. Of course, the two authorities operate in different ways and forms, inspired respectively by the principles of criminal proceedings and administrative procedure. Moreover, there is a moment of significant interference between the two actions, represented precisely by the order of demolition adopted by the judge with the sentence, pursuant to Article 31 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 380 of 2001, which in this part reproduces the original article 7 of the law 28 February 1985, n. 47. This order, in fact, by unanimous and consolidated doctrinal and jurisprudential orientation, has the nature of administrative sanction and has exceptionally restored content (underline this term) attributed to the jurisdiction of the judicial authority. However, as it is contained in a judgment of criminal conviction, it is likely to be enforced co-actively at the initiative of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This phenomenon is not entirely unprecedented, but certainly exceptional. On the grounds that some 30 years ago led to the criminal court being granted this extra-ordinam administrative power, I briefly referred to the report on the presentation of the bill. Therefore, I invite those who wish to deepen the argument to read - precisely - those reasons that thirty years ago led the legislator to entrust to the criminal judicial authority the execution of an administrative measure which, by its very nature, was to be put into effect by the administrative authority. It is certain that, after thirty years, these reasons seemed to me no longer convincing and indeed productive in the time of serious distortions and objective situations of iniquity. My assessments should not have been entirely peregrine, if it is true - as is true - that, as the authors of the amendments on which there has been a substantial convergence between almost all the members of the Commission, the executions of the demolition orders, accumulated to thousands in the offices of execution of the prosecutors (especially southern), and the actual executions have been carried out according to inscrutable or substantially unfair logics. We refer, in particular, to the executions carried out on the basis of the mere chronological order based exclusively on the date of the passage in court of the judgment that can lead, as in fact happened, to the killing of small building abuses of necessity in place of abuses certainly speculative connected to enterprises, for example, hotels or commercial. In the opinion of those who speak to you, the most correct and respectful solution of the principles would have been to put an end to the subtraction of the executive power of a certainly administrative task by returning it instead to one of its most prestigious articulations, such as the prefecture. Such a solution would have ensured the necessary detachment of the body invested in the power-duty of demolition from the pressures of the territorial communities. Even from the procedural point of view, the improper competition of powers would have ended by bringing the system back to coherence and bringing all interventions back to the most relevant and correct area of administrative action, i.e. conducted by administrative bodies in the forms of administrative procedure and with the guarantees of administrative judicial protection. It is hardly appropriate to point out, in reply - let me say this - to accusations and suspicions raised by party parties or, at best, misinformed that the proposed mechanism had nothing in common with the idea of pardon neither explicit nor implicit, but indeed it was the most radical and linear absolute and definitive denial. This solution did not find the necessary consensus in the Commission, but in the absolute majority it shared the comments on the serious and substantial inequalities of the present system. It has therefore been proposed to correct them, while maintaining the exceptional competence of the judicial authority, by subtracting the execution of the orders of suppression from the randomness of the initiatives of the individual proxy offices but dictating with the force and transparency of the law of the clear and shared criteria of priority that take into account... president. You have to finish, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). ...on the one hand the limited material and human resources necessary to carry out the demolitions and, on the other hand, the assessment of gravity. Since it is my personal custom and of the whole Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group to favour ideological or flag wars the concrete solution of the real problems of the people, in the name of which we are all here in this authoritative assembly, we agreed, waiting to propose again to listeners who are more serene and immune from preconception, to bring our consent to converge also on these amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I just want to say one thing to the Commission representative of the 5 Star Movement Group, Senator Lawyer Buccarella, who was concerned that this arrangement could lead to a series of subsequent judicial activities due to quirks: I would like to remind you, Senator Buccarella, that you have my own culture as a lawyer, that what you call quirks I define as guarantees: guarantees that cannot be denied to any citizen of our country. For these reasons, the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group will vote with conviction in favour of the measure being voted on. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Ironic applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u163	CAPACCHIONE (PD). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the landscape is the great sick man in Italy. Just look out at the window: we will see terraced houses where yesterday there were dunes, beaches and pine forests, we will see attic badly perched on roofs a harmonious day, on terraces already airy and flowery. We will see woods, meadows and countryside back every day in front of the invasion of half condominiums, we will see bright coasts and green hills devoured by incongruent houses and soulless "palazzi," we will see cranes rising menacing for every place. We will see what the Beautiful Country was submerged by inexorable castings of concrete. Salvatore Settis, author of an essay on the need to safeguard the environment from a speculative conception of the concept of landscape, did not refer to a specific Italian territory but to Italy in its entirety: to those city-ghosts that had been Campomarino and the Idroscalo of Ostia, to those that still today are Pinetamare and the Latium seafront. The essay dates back to four years ago, when the data on building abuse indicated at least 570,000 new cases after the 1985 pardon, with the most significant peaks in Sicily and Campania. Well, when ten years ago the Campania Region - unique in Italy - did not intend to implement the law on the condoning building, it did so bearing in mind the conditions of that territory, strongly anthropized, devastated by the speculations of the previous decades, disordered due to the lack of urban tools and a criminal management of urban areas, in many cases administered by politics and bureaucracy colluse. He felt, as Settis later wrote, that the landscape, a mirror of the society in which we live, had been consumed by that 1% of the population that continued to destroy; it remained outside 99 percent who instead had the duty to preserve that same landscape. The Region replaced, therefore, that silent but imposing majority who demanded respect for their cities and, ultimately, for their lives. It was limited, the Campania Region, to allow minimal, marginal condons, which did not affect the already shaky urban system. The Consulta considered, instead, those indices so low that they were inconsistent with the dictates of the law and did not approve the tables. Old history, it will be said, that nothing adds to the need to regulate the consumption of the territory in an area that owes to the morphological conformation of the soil a good part of its hydrogeological problems and that lives under the hood of a serious volcanic and seismic risk. Old history that has produced further damage and problems: the census of building abuse exceeds 200,000, with almost 70,000 killing sentences already ready to be carried out; overall, in the perspective, more than one million people will lose the house even in the presence of minimal violations. The defeats, moreover, are not easy to carry out given the budgetary constraints of the municipalities, so much so that for five years only a few hundred have been carried out to this side, a drop in the sea, unable to restore the landscape but instrument of customer negotiations especially in proximity to the vote, when the promise, although inevaded, of concessions in sanatoria becomes instrument of consensus. It is for this reason, aware of the need to manage a macroscopic phenomenon according to the rules not of exceptionality but of large numbers, that some proxy offices (Naples, Nola, Santa Maria Capua Vetere), strong of the positive experience made in Sicily, have endowed themselves with an internal regulation that sets criteria for the priorities of the demolitions: first those of the dangerous buildings or that insist on areas seriously compromised by the hydrogeological failure, then those of exponents of organized crime, then all the others. But not all prosecutors in the Republic, despite the demands of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, have settled in the same way. For example, the General Prosecutor of Naples, who was responsible for the execution of the judgments reformed by the Court of Appeal, did not do so.Naples Nord did not do so, on which depends a slice of territory that until 13 September last was regulated by the protocol between the Public Prosecutor and the Prefecture of Naples or by the regulation of the Public Prosecutor of Naples. Thus, a further disparity has been created between unequals, with paradoxical situations. For example, the only cuts that have been planned so far have concerned the single-family homes of people with little or no income, almost all with a disabled partner, people who have not even had the economic opportunity to challenge the measures before the administrative court. Not a hotel, not a shed that hosts companies that feed the illegal cycle of waste, not a holiday home, not a villa, not a shopping center, not the hundreds of attics transformed into attic, not a single house of camorrista, not a lottery, not the neighborhoods built on the sand still today without services and subservices: none of this has been demolished. Today, as then, cement clusters, which are monuments to the arrogance of the criminal power that has prevented and still prevents the normal and legal development of the territory. I quote just one example: Casapesenna, municipality of the agro aversano, a town that lies in Campania as Corleone lies in Sicily, the country of the boss Michele Zagaria. Well, that municipality was dissolved for the first time in 1991. The dissolution decree indicated that 90 percent of the housing stock was abusive. Well, in Casapesenna only one house was demolished, the one under construction of an immigrant worker in Germany, who every year, in August, came to build a small piece of house for his family: a very serious mistake of course, if it were not that all around there are all the houses of the Zagaria family still there. It is not enough: the chronological criterion adopted by prosecutors who have not signed protocols and have not provided themselves with regulations, beyond the apparent third party, has proved to be a further instrument of abuse and corruption, in some cases even criminal. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u164	Colleagues, let the colleague finish. Please hold the buzz, otherwise Senator Capacchione is not able to carry out his speech. I also ask colleagues in the PD Group to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u165	This is true of the recent investigation by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Naples, which led to the arrest of some clerks who, in exchange for money, altered the chronology of the sentences, hiding or destroying the procedural files. Inserting in the single text of the law for the construction the criteria for the reduction was intended to restore a principle of equality among all Italian citizens, subtracting the discretion to the execution of highly invasive measures. Criteria fully borrowed from the regulations of the prosecutors, according to priority from those offices already applied and leaving to them the right, motivated, to amend them. Exemplary criteria that will serve to remove forever the illusion of still being able to exchange consent with the arson blindness of the organisms of territorial control and to make more acceptable the demolition of the house of the humblest, having this attended, before it reaches its turn, that of buildings built by speculators and camorristi. And in a part of the country, where democracy is still unfinished, where the State too often had the same face as the Mafia, where signs and examples are substance, it will be a way to affirm that the law is the same for all and that it will never again be the richest and the most powerful to be able to get around it unpunished waiting for better times. That is why I call for the adoption of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u166	Explanations of vote have been completed. We shall then proceed to the vote. I beg the senators to take their seats. Senator Zanda, Senator Casson. I put it to the vote...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u169	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u171	About what, Senator Zanda? ZANDA (PD). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. ZANDA (PD). Madam President, there was a need for internal discussion in the Democratic Group. The closure of the sitting, as you know, was scheduled for 1 p.m. and has been extended. Even in view of this change in working hours, which I was not aware of personally, having entered the Chamber a few minutes ago, I would ask you to proceed with the final vote on the resumption of work, so that our Group can also have time to have an internal debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u172	Since we have actually proceeded beyond 1 p.m. on the basis of an informal agreement, if this agreement fails to take note of your request, and the final vote will take place at the beginning of the afternoon sitting at 4.30 p.m. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely. Why not? I think that this falls within the powers of the Presidency, because the deadline has expired. Since the vote has not already taken place, it is possible to postpone it to the afternoon sitting. [[Comments of Senator Capacchione]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, an explanation of vote has just been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u175	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, the extension was agreed with all the groups; if Senator Zanda was not here, he could have been warned of this move. We have all stayed half an hour longer, we are at the time of the vote, and it seems absurd to me, on a work which started several days ago, precisely at the time of the vote, to ask for its postponement. We ran like crazy, we didn't even have time to present sub-amendments done well: we could suspend the work before it took place in a more organic way, which was not done. This possibility of postponement certainly falls within your powers, but you must note that this procedure for carrying out the work is absolutely unacceptable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u176	I would point out that we have made the final explanations of vote so as not to prejudice a part of the afternoon sitting, for which there are very long-awaited measures, otherwise we would have had to change the timetable. Once an informal agreement has failed, I am obliged to postpone the final vote to the afternoon. Montevecchi (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo has already spoken for his group, Senator Montevecchi, I am sorry. Senator Santangelo has already spoken on a point of order, so I cannot give you the floor. What are you asking for? Montevecchi (M5S). Personally. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In this case, I will give you the floor at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u179	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I had asked to speak earlier, and I too was somewhat shocked by the request to postpone the final vote when all the explanations of vote were taken. This is at least an anomalous thing and I hope it will not happen again. It is always said that it is hoped not to set a precedent, but then in fact every time a certain procedure is followed, this constitutes a precedent. Although it is true that we were beyond the scheduled time, it should have been thought when consenting to the continuation itself was given. I shall therefore take another important point, which is not what we have just discussed. In October last year the bill No. 54 came to the Chamber with first signatures Amati and Malan and signed by many other colleagues on anti-negationism, against denialism concerning the extermination of the Jewish people during the Second World War. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u180	Senator Malan, excuse me. Colleagues can flow, but it is not possible for them to speak in this House in this way, because Senator Malan is unable to speak. I therefore ask colleagues to discuss outside the Chamber or to lower the volume of their voices and allow Senator Malan to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u181	Indeed, Mr President, I see that there are heated comparisons. What I am talking about is an argument that should unite as well as the parties within them also the various parliamentary groups that had spoken favorably. As I said, on 24 October the draft law No 54 came into the Chamber, approved by a very large majority in the Commission, against the denial of the extermination of the Jewish people by the Nazi regime and its accomplices. Well, there was a suspension of the examination of the measure immediately after the rapporteur's report and since then we have had no news of it. I would ask you, as President of the Senate, to ensure that the debate resumes also in view of the fact that Monday will be Memorial Day and, in my opinion, for that date we should have the resumption of the debate on that measure on the Calendar, because it is clear that we cannot think of ending it. Since the Conference of Leaders will not meet until next week, I think that today's afternoon we could implement the procedure provided for in Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure to introduce a new topic on the agenda, even without the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, since it is a non-personal initiative or a group of senators, but an initiative that should meet everyone's favour. The draft law No. 54 is in fact signed by representatives of almost all the parliamentary groups and if it is included on the agenda it will be done in the spirit of interpreting - I imagine - the will of most groups and senators to arrive at its calendarization.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u184	AMATI (PD). Madam President, my speech is strengthening, because I believe that most of us on 27 January next will go to bring the support of Members to the commemoration of Memorial Day and I believe that we want consistency and good taste when we go to these places and when we go to celebrate such serious events. I remember 16 October and the words of President Napolitano, I remember the commitment of President Grasso, who had even assigned the deliberating seat to the bill n. 54. We could collect the signatures but, in order to give more symbolic strength to the resumption of the general debate in this House, since the report had been carried out, I would ask that President Grasso be placed on the agenda of draft law No 54 for next week. At least we will give a signal to the Italian Jewish Community to demonstrate the will of this Parliament not only made of statements and words - I remember those of President Napolitano at the end of the celebration of 16 October - but also of facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u187	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I would like to point out that the bill that has arrived in this Chamber unfortunately has nothing to do with the Holocaust, but it concerns all war crimes and all human rights violations - there are about 11,000 - which currently lie at the European Court and which involved some 70-80 countries. This would mean that historical research for events involving, for example, Bosnia, the Serbs and all the conflicts of recent years would be punishable. Then, just out of respect for the Jewish people and the Holocaust and recalling the amendment I tabled to the Commission, which aimed at ensuring that the measure concerned the Holocaust and not just thousands of cases occurring all over the world on which historical research is absolutely necessary, before arriving at a war of amendments in the House I think it would be more right, even in the perspective of the Day of Memory, to refer draft law No 54 to the Commission and understand what we are talking about. This is the request I also make to the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u188	I believe that this matter must necessarily be submitted to the Conference of Leaders. The presidents of the groups to which the speakers belong will bring it, unless there is a request adequately supported for a proposal for inclusion on the agenda, which is not in the state.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u191	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, 11 days ago Massimo Cialente resigned as Mayor of L'Aquila, perhaps to loosen the media attention following the investigation of the Aquila Public Prosecutor on alleged bribes for post-sysm reconstruction and offering the world a penalizing view of the reality of citizens who were victims of bad politics. Today much of the national and local press announces yet another withdrawal of the resignation of Cialente and, in parallel to what has been proposed for weeks for the national government, speaks of an imminent reshuffle of the City Council, necessary - according to sources very close to Cialente - to restore credibility and image to the political action of the mayor and to better guarantee the demands of oppositions in the City Council, as well as of committees and citizenship. This time Cialente's friends have appropriately used a word "image" because an operation of reshuffling, the signal of the oldest and most misleading politics, can only have one goal: to redo the trick and appear new, to hide faults and political responsibilities well precise. This time the operation will not succeed because the eagle are tired of being deceived and considered unintelligent. Cialente - always according to what has been said by the press - would have withdrawn his resignation because of party pressure and why the citizens of Aquila would have asked him, even with the demonstration held in L'Aquila last Friday, to remain in his place. Too bad that the press failed to say that a few eagles and many people from other regions participated in the same demonstration because of the pressure of the mayor Cialente's party. Many eagle people hoped that with their initial resignation, the mayor Cialente, although not directly involved in the investigation, had assumed his political responsibilities by deciding to step aside and leaving the field open to a management of the public thing finally transparent and exclusively based on the protection of the rights of all eagle people and not just of some. The Eagle needs this: renewal, new energies, a new political class that knows how to reconstruct the sense of community among the eagle and respond to the needs and demands of the numerous committees born in these years on the territory. This Cialente can't guarantee it at all. Today with the reshuffle he is desperately trying, however failing, to save his image but not L'Aquila. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u194	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking briefly to highlight my regret, to use a light term, about the behaviour of the members of this House. We have received, since the beginning of our mandate, many criticisms and observations: we were for you the inexperienced ones, who did not understand the mechanisms of the Senate's work, who did not know how to behave. I had to listen to a colleague from the League who, during a visit by the Environment Commission to the land of fires, dared to say that the bells deserve the emergency waste because we are not clean citizens, we do not know how to differentiate, we do not - in practice - have a civic sense. Well, after what I saw last night, at the end of the sitting of this House, I think I am in a position to say that you are not worthy of reproaching us for anything, of not having the right to teach us anything, because we have been taught education, of having respect for the work of others and the place where we work. You all left this House in pitiful conditions yesterday. It seemed that among your benches - no one excluded - some waste paper dumpsters had been overturned. Well, have some modesty and admit that you have reached such a level of presumption that you believe that everything is granted to you. Perhaps you have forgotten the basic rules of civic sense and I now allow myself to give you some advice: start with small things, start with being clean and polite. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u195	Senator Moronese, we are all here, and we have never had this feeling. [[Comments from Senator Moronese.]] If colleagues leave paper on the floor, it is because, perhaps, the benches will have to be equipped with adequate baskets to allow them to dispose of the cards made redundant. MORONESE (M5S). If we can leave the bench clean, others can! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I think the Senate House cannot be painted like this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u196	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u197	You have the right to do so. I think he wants to intervene in relation to Senator Falanga's statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u198	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, unfortunately, Mr Falanga is not present, but I will ensure that he receives the transcript of the speech. I would just like to make two points, on the basis of the reference and the reference made to my name in your last speech. First of all, I am proudly a member of a political group called the 5 Star Movement, and not the 5 Star Movement, as Senator Falanga usually says. Furthermore, I have never said the word 'cavillo' in our discussions on draft law No 580 - neither I nor my colleagues in my political group. Therefore, all the intervention made by the colleague on the alleged use of the term cavil in a deterior sense I reject it to the sender. On the contrary, it is to be thought that if Mr Falanga referred to the term callillus, it is obviously - perhaps - the sign of a slip which lets us see that, perhaps, the calli thinks more of my colleague, Mr Falanga, than I do. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u199	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u201	Montevecchi (M5S). I would like to ask the President nicely if he would point out to me the Rule of the Senate Rules which prohibits a senator of the same group from speaking for the second time on the order of business. I remember that my colleague and leader, Senator Vincenzo Santangelo, first intervened on the order of business. President Lanzillotta, excuse me, but I am not saying this to you in a polemical way: it is an observation that I make to you without the will to offend or hurt you. Very often, Mrs Lanzillotta, when she presides, she distracts herself and struggles to see the request for intervention. First of all, I urge you and those who assist you to be a little more careful and to give the floor to the senator who requests it. I would also ask you to specify in which article of the Senate Rules this ban is provided for two senators of the same Group to intervene on the order of business. As a study, I'm going to read it to myself, because obviously I missed it. I would also like to invite you, because it is a very bad thing, and I think that the role of chairing an House should be one of its duties that of the clearest and most impartial. I tell you that it makes me very sorry to see what happened after our speech, such as that of my colleague, Mr Vilma Moronese, who - I assure you - drew the attention of the House to something that is before everyone's eyes and which is not pleasing, because we all try to keep the House clean. It was a call made with passion, because Vilma is bell and puts blood in all the things she does. It is really bad to see a reply of yours as if you felt that you had the responsibility to defend who knows who, instead of - instead of - picking up this observation that, at the end of the day, is right. That is, I really believe, Madam President, because there is another colleague of yours who always manages this House with great partiality, I would ask you to draw on his feminine qualities (we women as the numi of the fireplace are accustomed to diplomacy) and to try to be diplomatic and impartial in its management. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u202	Senator Montevecchi, thank you for the kind tone, but I would like to tell you that, first of all, with regard to attention, obviously within the limits of capacity, I think it is not lacking especially with regard to your Group that is ahead - perhaps you can complain to the Groups that sit sideways, because having no side eyes is more difficult - so tends to be quite visible. In this case, I did not give you the floor because, in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a speaker against and one in favour of points of order or on the agenda. Obviously, if it belongs to the same Group, unless it intervenes in dissent, it is not entitled to speak, since the statements on the order of business are from its Group. As for my response to Senator Moronese, yes, I feel invested in the task of defending the dignity of the Senate. So, if it is true that they are left cards because there are no baskets in the seats, and then they are removed, when I hear the Senate Chamber painting even with a word that may not be really adequate, because the listener imagines that this is the Senate Chamber, I must defend its dignity, correct and then report, beyond the passion, to the reality of the facts, which is not exactly a Chamber under those conditions. So, I take note of your courteous calls and will, of course, do my best. I think I am impartial because the Presidency, whoever is there, must operate impartially, but I think that it also has the task of protecting the Senate, whether it does not represent its image in a distorted way or, of course, by making it work decently and effectively.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u204	You've already intervened. He has the right to do so, provided it is a short speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u205	MORONESE (M5S). Thank you very much. With respect to your clarification, Mr President, I kindly invite you to take just a tour of the PD benches - I see them here on my right - and note what is on the ground. GIOVANARDI (NCD). Look at the pigsty on your desks! Look into your house. [[Comments from Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u206	Please, Senator, you have already spoken on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u207	MORONESE (M5S). All I ask is that we put the cards on the counters and not on the ground because people should not bow down to collect their waste. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi. Reiterate protests from Senators Bencini and Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-172.ana.u208	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.50 a.m.
