ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 25 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I am speaking on the Minutes because it does not report what I think is the most important thing: President Azzollini, when he referred to the maxi amendment 1,900, clearly said that he should expunge what was Amendment 29.26. He addressed the representative of the Government present in the Chamber, who admitted that that amendment had to be deleted. This is so true that in the MEF opinion and in the technical report to the maxi amendment the amendment 29.26, which included, among other things, the MEF report and the technical report, gave a favourable opinion. President Azzollini then asked the Government to expunge that amendment, together with a not well defined 10 point something that was not there anyway and therefore the Government has expunged amendment 29.26 and this must be reported in the minutes, since President Gasparri addressed the Government asking if it was to be expunged amendment 29.26 and the Government, addressing the President and the Assembly, replied in the affirmative. This is to be recorded in the minutes, otherwise we do not understand which major amendment was adopted with confidence. It is a debate that took place in the House between the Government, the President-in-Office, President Azzollini and myself, who spoke on the substance of amendment 29.26. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u5	I just wanted to remind you, Senator Barani, that a report is always a summary and in any case it reports what you refer to: it speaks of President Azzollini and of the proposals for amendments that have been made (we have just read them) and have been transposed by the State Secretary. So thank you for pointing this out, but that is it. The Minutes have, however, always been so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u8	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u9	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (11:10) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1563, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Di Giorgi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the examination of Decree-Law No 83 of 31 May 2014 laying down urgent provisions for the protection of cultural heritage, the development of culture and the relaunch of tourism, which entered into force on 1 June and expires on 30 July. The text contains a series of measures on culture and tourism presented by Minister Franceschini and arrives in the Senate after being improved and enriched in the Chamber of Deputies in compliance with the plant and the fundamental principles desired by the Government. The majority and the opposition were in agreement with a constructive spirit, so much so that this measure was unanimously approved with the abstention of the oppositions. I would add, Madam President, that this result, which I consider to be of great importance and for which, in addition to the parliamentary colleagues of majority and opposition, I would also like to thank the Minister who, with his willingness and listening, has accepted many of the amendments tabled and discussed, has also been achieved thanks to the contribution of us senators. In fact, given the limited time we had available for conversion, we felt that we would work with our colleagues in the House during the first reading, giving them our comments and our amendments to the Government text. These speeches were taken up by my colleagues in the House and I can therefore say that this text already contains many of the comments that had emerged in the public debate and that many of us senators had taken on board. I would therefore say that here today we are examining the fruit of a work which has already been carried out in a joint way with fruitful results. The decree-law in question deals with both culture and tourism, as we have said; it is an urgent measure dealing with several issues, introducing innovations and reordering or simplifying certain areas, but it has a fundamental philosophy that I want to recall here: the inseparable between measures in favour of cultural goods, for their protection and protection and those aimed at the enhancement and use of these goods, which in fact recall the interventions and policies for tourism. To this must be added a third element which undoubtedly assumes a driving role, but which is intertwined with both other areas, namely that of artistic formation and education in humanistic culture, obviously understood in the broad sense, that is, as a fruitful relationship between art and science. I know that the Minister is sensitive to this issue and you, too, have dealt with this important issue many times in this House and we have talked about it many times in the 7th Commission. I am referring to a particular concept, which here I choose to express in two terms: education to use, for our young people and for citizens in general, using all the means we have available, in the first place of course the school but, for those who are no longer at school, all the other tools available of a associative nature, or even connected to the new technologies, with online courses, specialized sites and how much the technological imagination can make available on the net. Our school has a task: to teach from the youngest age to recognize, love and feel its own cultural heritage and the forms of art and entertainment for which our country is recognized in the world. The goal must be to make young generations understand how much spiritual and material wealth can derive from the knowledge and perception of the value of a cultural, artistic and landscape good, so that it is natural to feel it as a part of oneself, something of which you cannot do without in your life. Therefore, I greatly appreciated the recent protocol between MIBACT and MIUR, so that from the common policies of the two Ministries a virtuous mechanism can be introduced, which considers the training in the artistic and cultural center for the young people of our country. There are not many other places in the world with this concentration of artistic goods, therefore, the professions linked to humanistic training should have a renewed vigour in Italy. Dear colleagues, Minister, Madam President, this country has lost its roots and felt that joining so-called humanistic faculties did not produce a future for our young people; families have tried to dissuade the children who wanted to dedicate themselves to it. Thus we have emptied of resources and perspectives (especially perspectives) the schools and faculties linked to the crafts more directly related to the artistic heritage, making another of the ruins in which our country has exercised itself in recent decades: few opportunities for work there would be and the young people were oriented by bad advisors towards schools and university faculties for which they had no propensity. As a result, many school drop-outs, impoverishment and subsequent real emptying of the artistic workshops and places of training and specialization in the professions related to the protection and conservation, as well as the valorization of cultural heritage. At the same time we recorded, day after day, the fall of investments in the world of culture and in the places of art and entertainment. All this, without realizing that we were in the first place guilty of giving up a perspective of work to thousands and thousands of young people and, secondly, making at the same time decay our artistic and cultural heritage, assuming a historical responsibility of great importance. This is a premise that gives a very clear meaning in my opinion to this measure, which is an urgent measure but certainly fits in with this philosophy. It is a decree aimed at overturning this approach, which has produced these damages, according to a new conception of interventions on cultural goods and tourism, which aims at finally: to consider priority for the development of the country strategies aimed at protecting, increasing and enhancing our immense artistic, cultural and landscape heritage; to attract resources, to find tools of every nature, fiscal first (this decree is called art bonus), but also through new technologies, placing themselves competitively and equipped with all the necessary tools. One of these necessary tools is the transformation of the MIBACT structure, an innovation in this too. This innovation, presented in recent days by the Minister and incarnated in part in this measure, is part of the strategy that this Government has put in place, indeed, I would say that it is an indispensable tool. New organizational models, space for new management ideas that make more usable, for the reasons I illustrated earlier, our heritage, enhance it and above all create specialized employment and excellence. Faced with this commitment of the Government, we have read in the press violent positions taken by illustrious art historians and prominent figures of the world of culture, who, far from feeling partly responsible for a system that, objectively, has been inadequate in recent decades, resulting in degradation and myriads of lost occasions, stand up to inflexible judges, supporters of models that have been modified abroad for many years already. Then perhaps it would not hurt a bit of humility, together with the desire to get back into play, following an organizational approach that could give satisfactory results already in the short term; and that is what we hope, of course. Obviously, this inability to interpret in a different way the union of culture and tourism and the guilty obtuseness of the many who have held administrative and political positions - colleagues, even politicians - has seriously penalized our tourism system, thanks also to its fragmentation (a intervention of this type not only affects cultural assets but in this approach of great connection also affects tourism) and the lost unity of interventions determined by the allocation of competences to the Regions according to the old Title V, competences that, in the reform that we are discussing in these days, will return to state ownership. Italy has not had an organic industrial policy in the tourism sector for too many years now. Decree n. 83 begins to respond, in this sense, to some needs dealing with accommodation, tourist mobility, accessibility, technological innovation, rationalization of the international promotion with the reform of ENIT, our Italian agency for tourism. It is undoubtedly only a first step in waiting for an organic measure which we hope will not be too late for our tourism. We are talking about an economic sector that has enormous potential, if that is well followed up. Members of the 7th Senate Commission have talked about this and have reflected on several occasions. I would like to point out that in 2013 the direct and indirect contribution of tourism to gross domestic product was almost EUR 160 billion, i.e. 10.3%. In the same year, direct workers outnumbered the million, i.e. 4.9%, so almost 5% of the total employed. Good investment prospects are therefore foreshadowed by these measures, which intervene in a landscape plagued by bureaucratic difficulties. And with this measure, in fact, the aim is to de-bureaucraticize this sector with precise initiatives, proposed by the government and integrated by Parliament. We therefore have the introduction, also in this area, of tax credit of 30% for the expenses incurred and for the qualifying interventions of the structures of hospitality. This measure actually introduces very interesting news that in this country they expected for many years and that we finally manage to discuss. First of all, the long-awaited tax relief of up to 65%, through tax credit for donations for restoration and preservation of the heritage and for the benefit of the public cultural heritage. A measure aimed at the great and the micro patronage and the liberal disbursements of the companies. There's no sponsorship here yet. The measure aims to promote virtuous practices of management and valorization of the goods, with particular importance - and this is an important aspect, much appreciated by the ANCI - for the municipal structures (museums, libraries and cultural heritage belonging to them) that for the first time can be addressed direct donations. Credit is also granted to donations - and this is an interesting further step - in favour of dealers and custodians of public cultural goods. This measure still intervenes - as already done in the decree value culture - on the opera foundations, on the places of culture such as Pompeii and the Reggia of Caserta, graft virtuous mechanisms for the development and innovation tourism, lay the foundations for other contracts of work in the field of cultural goods, give additional facilities, also of fiscal nature, to film productions. This is another aspect of great importance, precisely because of the opportunities it offers in the field of employment. I will examine in a few more details some of these issues in order to take account of a measure which the 7th Commission has considered useful and timely, while being able to initiate a virtuous process in terms of effectiveness and strategic vision. I have already said about the tax credit, but I would like to add that, with regard to the first application, taxpayers will be able to benefit from this credit to the extent of 65% of the payments made in 2014 and 2015 and to the extent of 50% for 2016. The interventions can be of maintenance, protection and restoration of public cultural heritage; of support - this is very important - of the institutes and places of culture belonging to public (i.e. museums, libraries, archives, archaeological areas and parks, monumental complexes); for the realization of new structures - or for the restoration and strengthening of existing ones - of lyrical-symphonic foundations (i.e. structures, theaters and places where foundations operate). They have not been included in the provision - this has been explained to us and the Minister will explain it to us - other cultural activities that many instead had demanded that they be introduced, but of course our coffers do not allow it at this stage. So for the time being, these interventions are of enormous importance. Then we return to Pompeii: we wanted to intervene on the procedures of the Great Project, already interested - as you will remember - by decree value culture, with a series of acts to accelerate its implementation. Specific provisions are laid down - this is very important - for transparency, but at the same time for speed and speed of action. Therefore it was delicate to intervene again on this project, but it has been done, also by way of derogation from the code of contracts, without prejudice to the effect of the protocol of legality stipulated with the competent prefecture of the area. Then there is another aspect that I have mentioned, that produces a sort of repositioning of the Palace of Caserta, which is another place so important and managed in such a messy way: it is a project to reassign the spaces of the entire complex of the Palace of Caserta, in order to return it to its exclusive - this aspect of exclusivity is very important - cultural, educational and museum destination. There is another aspect which has given rise to much debate, but which is obviously of great importance: you see it in Article 4, ladies and gentlemen, and it concerns commercial activities in areas of cultural value. The code of cultural heritage and landscape is supplemented in order to ensure the decoration of the monumental complexes and other buildings of the cultural property affected by particularly important tourist flows, as well as of the areas to which they belong. This means that we must think of a reorganization of the current authorisations and concessions for the sale in these areas and it is rightly provided for compensation for its owners for which it could result in economic damage. With regard to lyrical-symphonic foundations, it is essentially still possible - only for foundations which have submitted the recovery plan - to negotiate and apply new supplementary business contracts in the more part of the definition of the collective bargaining procedure if the collective agreement had not yet been drawn up. To the staff of the foundations in excess - that is the point, I say it also for some colleagues who have followed with great attention the fate of the staff in excess within the foundations - applies the current rules on pensions that can be activated in cases of supernumerary to the outcome of the reductions in staff, while the administrative and technical staff that is still made redundant instead is assumed indefinitely, through mobility procedure, initiated by the foundation, by the company ALES SpA. On this point we have already insisted very strongly on the debate on the decree value culture. We have spoken for a long time with Minister Franceschini on this occasion too, noting that there are guarantees on the part of the Government that this mobility procedure activates what everyone wants, namely the permanent recruitment within this society in order to be able to continue working in the cultural field. The other aspect that I think I must emphasise in relation to lyrical-symphonic foundations is an increase of EUR 50 million. However, I would like to point out to my colleagues that it is not 50 million euros donated, made available as a non-refund, because they go to increase the allocation of the rotating fund for the granting of funding to lyric-symphonic foundations which were in a situation of financial difficulties on the date of entry into force of the cultural value decree. Foundations are helped to provide additional guarantees to get out of their situation, but these are resources that need to be returned. Important speeches, as I said at the beginning of my speech, are planned for the cinema and the audiovisual sector. However, we are talking about a measure that deals with many issues and seeks to unblock and give some life to a number of sectors that have suffered in some way in recent years from few investments and, above all, little attention. In Article 6, we have thus agreed to increase from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million the maximum tax credit limit for national executive and post-production companies for films shot on national territory using Italian labour, but on a commission of foreign productions. The aim is therefore to attract finance and production in Italy. We are also talking about a tax credit of 30% of the costs of cinemas. It was another aspect that was required on many occasions also in our debate at the Senate and we say that this is an interesting answer because the suburban halls, those rooms that are often important for so many people who do not move to the shopping malls where there are also the large multi-halls and where, obviously, there is another type of social setting, the neighborhood halls and the cities that still need life and living. Here, for the restoration, restoration and structural and technological adjustment of these rooms is expected a tax credit equal to 30% of the costs incurred. Then there are some interesting points, which we pointed out to the Minister, because we care a lot. This is the plan "Grandi progetti beni culturali" of the fund "Mille giovani per la cultura" (Thousand Young People for Culture), the "Programme Italia 2019" and the institution of the Italian Capital of Culture. It is important and very innovative the plan "Grandi progetti beni culturali", adopted by decree of the Minister, that identifies the goods or sites of exceptional cultural interest and of national importance for which it is necessary and urgent to carry out organic interventions of protection, redevelopment, valorization and cultural promotion also for tourist purposes. It is like saying that somewhere we have to start again and, therefore, we start to make a plan, monitoring and understanding where we have to start to intervene in our immense cultural heritage. I think this is important. It is a funded plan, with an expenditure authorisation for 2014-2016 of EUR 5 million for 2014, EUR 30 million for 2015 and EUR 50 million for 2016. These are, therefore, interventions of a certain consistency. Another aspect to be highlighted is the use of cultural heritage professionals aged no more than forty years - nowadays they are young people, colleagues - who can be hired for a fixed time - this is important - to cope in the various territories with the strengthening of reception services and assistance to the public, for the improvement and strengthening of the interventions of protection, supervision, inspection, conservation and valorization of cultural goods, institutes and places of culture of the State, regions and territorial authorities. In this respect, a register, i.e. a list of such professionals, will be established, and contracts will be reserved for those registered with them. Therefore, skills will also be evaluated because they are cultural heritage professionals. With regard to this point, I would like to recall what I said in the first part of my speech. As far as tourism is concerned, we have already talked about certain aspects. Also in this case there is an important step: there is a tax credit for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 in favour of accommodation establishments to the extent of 30 percent of the costs incurred for interventions and innovations of any kind, both material and specifically technological, such as wi-fi facilities, websites, programs for the sale of services. It is, therefore, a great help for anyone who wants to strongly innovate and get ideas in the field of tourism. The last question that I would like to put to you and highlight - the Minister will, of course, add a number of further comments - concerns the transformation of ENIT, which is one of the issues on which we aimed for an effective reorganization. Article 16 of the measure provides for the reorganization and rationalization of ENIT, the National Agency for Tourism, and for its transformation from an entity with legal personality under public law to a public economic entity subject to the supervision of the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities, as well as the simultaneous liquidation of Promuovi Italia, which we all know. The functions and characteristics of the new institution, the composition and methods of appointment of its members are changed. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the last article of the measure concerns financial cover, which is obviously guaranteed, otherwise we would not be here. We are about to proceed to the debate and then to the subsequent adoption of this measure, after a path that - as I have already said - started a few weeks ago, in conjunction with colleagues in the House. The measure arrived in the 7th Commission on 15 July: we worked hard to activate the debate and to gather all the comments made by our colleagues both by majority and opposition. It is clear that there is a possibility of a majority-opposition agreement on a measure such as the one under consideration in order to reach an agreement. An intense debate has been held and for this reason, as rapporteur, I must thank our Commission and its President, Senator Marcucci, who is here. A long debate was held and Minister Franceschini was very willing to evaluate the new guidelines, which emerged from the debate. But there is one problem: the impossibility of introducing additional measures, especially if onerous, given the difficulty not only linked to the times - and we know this because we have said it on several occasions - but also to find additional resources. The Dicasteries of Cultural Heritage and Economics have already worked together during the first reading to make the maximum improvements to the text, as it appears in fact by reading the article (and we who have examined it in the Commission can only agree on this). Although there was therefore no room for amending the text (I say this, in particular, by addressing the oppositions also in view of the good work we have done together), it was considered, however, to examine in detail the approximately 285 amendments tabled, to which 23 agendas were added, in order to nuclearize the proposals worthy of particular attention on which the Government intended to commit itself. In the light of the withdrawal of all the amendments tabled by the Opposition Groups, the remaining amendments and agendas were examined. We have therefore tried with the Undersecretary Barracciu who, together with the Minister, has followed all our meetings, to actually take into account all the contributions. Other amendments have been added to these, following the transformation of amendments, which are considered, together with the Commission, to be acceptable. In the Commission we have therefore accepted - and this seems to me to be an important and very helpful element of the Government - as many as 31 agendas, many of which relate to cultural heritage, and others to tourism. Some of these agendas were aimed at strengthening the provisions of the decree-law. I would also like to mention a few of them in respect of those colleagues who have worked on them. I recall the agenda G/1563/10/7, concerning the possibility of extending tax concessions to traditional theatres; the G/1563/12/7 (text 2) concerning the shift of commercial activities from monumental complexes; the G/1563/14/7 (text 2) on the promotion of Italian cinema; the G/1563/15/7 (text 2) on the opportunity to allocate appropriate resources to the Italy 2019 programme; the G/1563/16/7 (text 2) on the allocation to cooperatives of young people of unused cultural assets. Other agendas, also accepted, instead posed additional questions, sometimes even innovative, on which the Ministry said it was in favour of deepening. We therefore call on the Minister to make further efforts in this House. The reference goes, for example, on the agenda G/1563/1/7 (text 2) on the Festival of Parma and Busseto, on the G/1563/3/7 (text 2) on the celebrations of the Great War, on the agenda G/1563/4/7 on contemporary art, on the agenda G/1563/5/7 and G/1563/7/7 on carnival, on the agenda G/1563/27, presented by the Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group, on the possibility of issuing bond bonds (art bonds) aimed at stimulating investment in cultural goods, on the agenda G/1563/28/7 on the initiative The adoption of such acts of direction bears witness to the Government's attention to Parliament's demands, which in fact raise important issues and shared with the Executive. Among the accepted agendas, the Commission approved two of them for their transmission to the Assembly, which took the numbering G8.100 and G15.100. The first agenda concerns the Carnival events, which have an important historical and cultural value in the Italian and popular tradition and are a fundamental vehicle for the tourist development of the territories, with respect to which the Government intends to find in a short time additional resources, possibly from the Single Fund for Show (FUS). The second concerns the definition of the criteria for the transition of some qualified employees of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism within the area of employment between different profiles, at the same level of access and required cultural and professional requirements, involving the so-called ex ATMs, currently included in the role of supervisory assistants (freely, something very, very reductive). In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the support and the work done by the President of the Commission, Senator Marcucci, all the members of the 7th Commission, Dr Pazzaglia, Dr Di Cesare and Dr Borioni, in addition to the executives of the Senate, I also thank the managers of the Ministry who worked with us and followed us at all stages of the examination of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Madam President, I would like to add the full text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u14	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I declare the general discussion open. Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Franceschini, first of all I would like to thank the President of the 7th Standing committee, the rapporteur, Senator Di Giorgi (who has just produced a detailed report), the offices and all those who followed us in this work The discussion on the conversion into law of the decree art bonus is of primary importance not only for the approval of important measures in support of culture and tourism, but also to send a strong message to the citizens and to Europe. Italy must bring culture and its unparalleled artistic, historical and landscape heritage back to the centre of its model of economic and social development. Italy must return to supporting talent and beauty as an opportunity for job renewal. We have a goal: to give work to our young people, to the many who in the cultural and artistic sectors have trained and are training and to those who want to invest precisely on our beauty. The objective has been consistently pursued in the course of this legislature with various measures that denote a continuity between the decree Bray and the decree Franceschini: calls for traineeships, national civil service and project jobs for the under 29 reiterated and extended to specific contexts in the cultural sectors; in those tourist prepared with the decree-law under consideration are provided the facilities for start-ups activated by under 40 and free state property concessions for the realization of new tourist routes. Article 8 of the decree-law that we are converting into law today brings with it an important turning point that has taken strength during the debate in the Commission in the House (of course we also thank colleagues from the 7th Chamber of Deputies Commission). Article 8, in fact, raises from 29 to 40 the maximum age of operators to be hired on a fixed time for the strengthening of reception and assistance services to the public, for the improvement and reinforcement of the interventions of protection, supervision and inspection, protection and conservation, valorization of cultural assets by the State, Regions and other territorial public authorities. In fact, the term "young people" has been replaced by that of "professionals", eliminating the local lists provided for in the original text of the decree-law and instead transposing the national lists referred to in the law of reform on public administration. We all know that for cultural goods there is a need for stable recruitment of professionals and not just temporary interventions. It is a goal to be achieved by stabilising important resources already present in our bodies. Today, in any case, we recognize the important step forward of this measure, which opens up to certain times. Of course, we need to fuel internal demand for culture in order to give sustainability to our entire heritage. Art and beauty must be connected with territories, schools (as highlighted by the rapporteur) and institutions. If we do not educate our children to culture, if we do not support their talents, the future ruling class will not be able to seize this important opportunity. From this point of view also the reform of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, proposed by Minister Franceschini, addresses the structural shortage in the field of training with two specific measures: to create a special Directorate-General for Education and Research, to be entrusted with the task of working with the Ministry of Education, University and Research, the CNR and other research bodies, universities and schools to ensure the implementation of appropriate training courses, also in agreement with the Regions; to strengthen the activity of study, training and research of the peripheral structures of the Ministry, in particular of supervisors, including through conventions with universities, schools and training institutions. In this sense, the protocol of understanding between the Ministry of Education, University and Research and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, signed on 16 June, has as its aim to stimulate and promote in the school public the interest on the themes of knowledge, conservation, preservation and protection of cultural heritage. In this document, the Ministries undertake to promote educational learning models related to the training needs of young people and to the development of integrated skills and competences able to respond to the changing economic contexts. There are also mutual commitments to promote a platform for national cultural awareness projects. To give an example that we all know, it is mentioned, the twenty-five-year project in accordance with the Fondazione Napoli Novantanove "The school adopts a monument" (the subject of an agenda) that sees committed the schools of cities belonging to the national network throughout the country. There are also important projects, such as National Day for the Promotion of Reading, as well as attention to interculturality, artistic culture and education to musical heritage, which is also so little known. In this musical field, in addition to measures on lyrical-symphonic foundations, various agendas approved in 7th Commission were welcomed by the Government, for example, commitments for the support of the Mediterranean Youth Orchestra at the lyric agency of San Carlo di Napoli and the Verdi Festival of Parma and Busseto. As the first signatory of a bill on musical formation and performing arts and as the promoter of the intergroup "Per la musica" I can only emphasize the adjustment of the tariffs on fair compensation, on which Minister Franceschini has already intervened by a ministerial decree, limiting myself to bringing back only the cross-appreciation of many exponents of Italian culture. As noted by the Association of Small Music Producers, the adaptation will bring new investments in support of creativity, research and development of emerging artists. In the beehive of the attention to the use of young people in the cultural sectors is included my last thought, aimed at paying attention to the historical institutes of the Resistance, which for over sixty years have been promoting contemporary historical research with conferences, specialized archives, training and updating of teachers. An agenda presented by several senators, approved in the Commission, calls for a commitment from the Government to assess the provision of appropriate premises within the public building heritage to the historical Resistance institutes and the resources necessary for the use of the documentation they hold. We hope that there will be future attention to these important cultural and scientific realities. This decree-law looks at culture as an element of society: not more distant and austere, but close and dynamic. A culture that is no longer bureaucratic, but more transparent and, finally, European in scope. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u16	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u17	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering into the discussion of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 83 of 31 May 2014, with urgent provisions for the protection and cultural heritage, the development and relaunch of tourism. Cultural promotion and enhancement are the pillars of civil society. Today's measure to our attention contains an appreciable contribution within it, which goes timidly in this direction. The need to encourage and promote culture as a vehicle and instrument through which to protect Italian heritage and, at the same time, relaunch art and tourism is becoming increasingly urgent. The decree-law, already at the beginning, reveals its reasons, through a sort of contemporary re-enactment of Renaissance sentiments: an welcomed attempt to promote the acquisition of the necessary awareness that culture, in its various forms, represents a renewal that must cover all the contexts in which human life and activities develop. The measure seems to sanction, through the free and spontaneous donation of individuals, the support of culture through a modern interpretation of patronage. Relaunching the sector therefore means relaunching the most important resources of our country, which are culture and tourism. A step forward towards a European perspective, therefore, where patronage has already achieved appreciable results. Not only can the survival of art be guaranteed on this line, but the foundations can be laid in order to create the conditions for developing the tourism and culture sectors, in accordance with Article 9 of the Constitutional Charter, which reads: The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. But it is before everyone's eyes that this image of valorization and protection is, so far, only utopia. Given the precarious conditions in which much of the Italian cultural heritage falls, the choice to act quickly through a decree-law is certainly acceptable, placing as a first urgency the start of the financing for Pompeii and the numerous monuments that need urgent interventions. Encouraging and encouraging the protection of knowledge and art is certainly an appreciable proposal; however, it is necessary to adopt measures, as proposed by the 5 Star Movement, such as the continuous monitoring of goods, their proper administration and their state of restoration through the use of institutional IT platforms. Only in this way can culture and art become fully usable resources for citizens and tourists. In this way, the management and exploitation of our cultural heritage will be able to respond to logics capable of interpreting the needs of the European market. The crowdfunding proposed by the M5S appears, in the perspective of a modern patronage, a suitable tool to implement innovative models of management and promotion of culture. This model contains great potential, if one thinks of the opportunities that the economic contribution, even modest, of small local entrepreneurs could give to the protection and conservation of cultural assets located in the places where they carry out their activities. This would in fact encourage, in addition to tourism and culture, the small business, which has always been the driving force of Italy. The Italian culture, in its present state, is potentially able to provide the country with the resources useful for its livelihood and to offer a great contribution to get out of the crisis, provided that art and culture represent not an end in itself, but a resource used to ensure a valid support for the economy. Italy has an important percentage of the world's artistic heritage and is therefore a privileged protagonist among the European countries, which from the cultural point of view possess less assets than Italy. However, we want to continue not to consider this enormous resource, always placing an economy with incentive to the exploitation of the territory, to the destruction of the environmental good, to the suffocation of the cultural and social value, in a perspective of guilty responsibility. The data available are eloquent: jobs created by culture in Italy correspond to 1%, while in the rest of Europe an average of 2.6% of gross domestic product is reached. 11:55 a.m. (Serra followed). This clearly reveals the many contradictions of Italy, which, although counted among the nations with the greatest artistic and cultural resources in the world, is at the same time the taillight for public investments in culture. The quality and size of Italian tourism do not reflect the potential that our country has and cannot become the first economic resource of the nation, as would be desirable, because of the costs too high in comparison to a supply of services of mediocre quality. Although the need to act swiftly in the field of art and culture is urgent, given the overall picture, attention must be paid to the instruments with which action is to be taken to relaunch the sector. Article 8 of the measure in question provides that institutions and places of culture of the State, regions and territorial authorities may employ professionals aged no more than 40 years. This age limit is, in general, contrary to Italian and European legislation, in particular with Legislative Decree No 216 of 2003, which transposed Directive 2000/78 EC, and with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union; rules that protect the citizen against discrimination based on sex, race, religion, age, disability and sexual orientation. The limit provided for in the decree therefore appears questionable and tends to encourage the precariousness of the labour market and the lives of people. The number of precarious workers in the cultural heritage sector that in Italy collaborates with MIBACT amounts to about a thousand people; however, some tens of thousands are precarious in the sector. A significant proportion of workers, most of whom would be affected for personal reasons, many of whom are over 40 years of age. 11:58 a.m. (Serra followed). We hear that the decree in some respects has some critical points and can be improved, if it is true that the cultural, tourist and working value are the heart and soul of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u18	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u19	Madam President, this decree represents a comprehensive and comprehensive intervention for the care and promotion of our immense cultural heritage; it is concrete and courageously innovative. The collaboration between public and private for the protection, management and promotion of the artistic heritage is supported with simplification and with more than significant tax bonuses. The appeal to corporate social responsibility also in this fundamental sector is now written in an understandable language, that is, able to speak to many companies: there is corporate social responsibility, there are important interests of image and marketing of large production complexes to be valued, there is management capacity. With the art bonus you also create very interesting tax conditions from the economic point of view. We are sure that this mix will produce concrete results in terms of safeguarding, care, management of the great sites and the complex of Italian cultural assets. From this point of view the measure represents the start of a real Copernican revolution for the whole sector. There is a process that does not represent a delegation to the private management of a fundamental heritage such as the cultural one, nor can it be considered a sophisticated operation of public fundraising. It is instead the start of a positive collaboration between public and private that can and must generate positive results for both parties, each with its own competences, interests and vocations. With regard to supervisors, the decisions taken represent a simplified and streamlined line of command between central and peripheral administration. Twenty large museums are separated from the protection of the superintendents and acquire greater autonomy, which in my opinion will allow a faster development of their usability. New summits will be appointed and amalgamations will be made by subject, a road already travelled and experimented in Tuscany, where unified superintendences work. Interesting, although still to be experimented, is the mechanism, indeed the mechanisms of transparency and information that will be created, including the publication on the web by stakeholders of the funds and projects activated. Data that will then be summarized in a dedicated portal, managed by the Ministry. With this measure we want to create a strategic plan to support major projects and cultural assets, also with the aim of promoting the growth of the country's attractiveness. The plan will have to identify assets or sites of exceptional cultural interest and of national importance for which it is necessary and urgent to carry out organic interventions of protection, upgrading, valorization and cultural promotion, also for tourist purposes. I believe that it is essential to highlight concretely the link between cultural heritage, tourism and the country's attractiveness. A unified vision always declaimed but never yet concretely and adequately pursued. The question, complex and delicate, is delegated to a subsequent initiative of the Ministry in connection with the Regions. The game will be played on those tables, it will be at that moment that you will really give the sign and the sense of the statements contained here. It is on those tables that we will have to know how to take into account what is elaborated and expressed in these assemblies, it is on those tables that we will have to prove to be able to bring to synthesis an immense complex of initiatives, activities and events present in our country. The Commission has approved an agenda that recognizes full dignity and importance to initiatives such as carnivals or other major popular events, which are fully part of the history of our country, our culture, our traditions and the inventiveness typical of our people. The fame of some of these extends across national borders. I am from Viareggio and I cannot help but remember that the Carnival of Viareggio is not only one of the most spectacular Italian festivals, but represents the artistic and organizational skills of Italians in the world and is an international event. The carts of the Carnival of Viareggio are an inexhaustible source of wonder and amazement for the tens of thousands of spectators who come to Viareggio every year in the cold February. The art of paper-mâché, which allows you to create the most ingenious works, rich in movements, sizes, colors and imagination, is an art that has made the carnival a fascinating show famous all over the world. The satire born with a local character takes on a critical character of the customs, customs, habits of a collective reality, endowed with its own cultural identity and an important historical memory. It is no coincidence that Decree-Law No 91 of 8 August 2013 recognised the historical and cultural value of carnival and of the activities and events related to it in the Italian tradition in order to promote its protection and development in accordance with local authorities. Last but not least, I remember that the mix of cultural heritage, landscape heritage, agri-food, culture, art, crafts and tourism is definitely one of the pillars on which to base recovery; a mix that can generate new wealth and employment, especially youth. In this context, support for hotel businesses is positive: a tax credit for expenses incurred by accommodation facilities for digitisation and hotel restructuring. However, here I want to make an emphasis on digital tools and the web. I remember that now the market of bookings through the web at global level is controlled by a few big sites with which it is impossible to compete: therefore better to collaborate and learn how to use them at best, instead shifting attention to the world of apps that are the new tools of digital customization and the point of connection between global and local; therefore more training than creating web pages, now generally destined to a less than secondary or exclusively institutional role. The decree-law in question represents therefore an important step forward, a starting point for making others, in the awareness that our receptive heritage is also based on other non-professional structures yet strongly linked to the territory, non-invasive, engines of innovation and creativity. It is true that these activities have management roots in regional regulations, but this does not mean that they can also be identified as active subjects of a broader plan of tourism growth and development. Just believe it and act accordingly. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u20	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today once again to discuss an opportunity which has not been fully exploited, a measure which has been desired and requested for a long time and for which more incisive and courageous measures were expected for the revival of tourism and culture, which is the true wealth of Italy. The Italian cultural and artistic heritage is immense and truly indescribable, the most important in the world: 2100 parks and archaeological areas, 3400 museums, 43 UNESCO sites; it is a great and precious heritage that we have repeatedly defined as our real oil. The interventions and measures aimed at its recovery, preservation, enhancement and correct use must not be dominated by the logic of sale, but starting from this awareness, if we really want not only to aspire, but also to try concretely to affirm our leadership in the tourist-cultural field. The premises, in this sense, are not exactly the best, especially if we refer to the approximation and superficiality with which Mr. Renzi even came to hurricane against the superintendences, considering them as a nineteenth-century instrument for the protection of cultural goods. Perhaps it is more appropriate for him that the great international brands exploit and manage exclusively the cultural and historical heritage of our country, as is happening for the Trevi Fountain in Rome with the colossus of Krizia fashion? The decree-law that we are about to convert into the law of the State can only be considered as a beginning, because the measures and interventions contained in it are not at all sufficient and decisive. It is certainly a useful measure to set the target for culture by 3% of infrastructure expenditure. This measure, with the measure we are examining, takes on a structural character, while until now it was planned to transfer resources up to 3% only for the three-year period 2014-2016. However, this percentage is very small and is obviously indicative of the lack of courage of the Government. Just as art bonus represents an important but basically shy intervention, if we had as real goal the fast and necessary affirmation of the tourist-cultural leadership and the enhancement of our artistic heritage. The art bonus provides that the liberal payments made by individuals and companies in favour of culture will benefit from the tax deduction of 65%, spread in three annual instalments and the amount of which will not exceed 15% of the income of the patron, but it was not intended to prevent these deductions from being used also by those who have already benefited from considerable deductions, such as the operators of games and online betting. While, on the one hand, art bonus is a measure capable, after many years, of laying the foundations for new investments in culture, on the other hand it is just as true as the limited resources made available by this measure, testifying to the lack of foresight and the lack of programming that inspired it. Even greater truth could represent the risk that art bonus, if seen as the only and preeminent source of funding, could prove to be an instrument capable of further deleveraging the state. And that would not be desirable. In this sector, together with that of the "cultural wealth" produced, our country is far behind: estimates indicate that the tourism economy and the cultural sector contribute on average 20% to the GDP of the main European countries, while in Italy this happens for a percentage that barely reaches 12%. According to these data it is more than evident that our country is incapable of valorizing the immense artistic - cultural heritage of which it has: a fact, an indisputable truth, as well as the other side of the medal or the inability to physically recover the cultural assets that are in a state of abandonment, degradation or that have been damaged by natural disasters: historical, architectural, cultural beauties literally abandoned to their destiny, despite having great cultural historical value and, for residents on the territory, also a symbolic and identity value. In Abruzzo, and especially in L'Aquila, there are many examples of heritage such as these. In this sense, after the earthquake of 6 April 2009, such assets should also be protected with necessary archaeological constraints. It is happening in these days with Porta Barete, where it is inexplicably delaying the appointment of the regional director of architectural and landscape goods, an element of fact propaedeutic to the imposition of a cultural bond on the ancient door and anti-door and on the walls all. Following this reasoning, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7 to the effect that in identifying cultural assets to which the financial resources for carrying out organic measures for protection, retraining and enhancement should be given absolute priority to archaeological sites seriously affected by natural disasters and cultural heritage, which have not yet been completed. The Government's umpteenth request for trust (No. 15) is lurking, however, and will screw up all the proposals presented by the 5 Star Movement and illustrated by the other colleague previously. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, by comparing the effects of this decree-law to those caused by the throwing of a stone in a pond, I hope that the future measures on the revival of the culture that you will adopt will be of a more collaborative spirit. Culture is neither left-wing nor right-wing nor centre-centred. The culture comes from ideas and we, even for this decree, had many, but you did not want to consider them, either in the House or in the Senate. On the other hand, what should be expected of a majority and a government that has had the boldness to impose the trap also on constitutional reforms? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We must understand, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that Italian cultural heritage is not our property and we have a great responsibility to protect it for future generations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u22	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u23	Madam President, I would like to thank you for giving me the floor - the first time and I hope not the last - because it is absolutely necessary to make a few points about this decree, on which we are debating today. I hope and hope that the Government will pay attention to a number of important aspects that I am now going to present. I am referring to the multilingual and multicultural border areas which, in democratic Italy, represent a factor of cultural development and socio-economic impetus based on peace and solidarity between different peoples and peoples. These border areas are privileged laboratories for European integration and constitute - in our very delicate historical phase, thanks also to the European and international role that our country and our Government have - a great opportunity for growth in many aspects, they constitute real privileged doors, workshops, gymnasiums of European and international integration and are central to the development of the younger generations. Confinatory realities have represented, together with the cultural associations that operate there and the local authorities, since the beginning of the Second World War, an indispensable driver in the strategic field of integration between peoples. In our country, which represents a privileged crossroads between North and South, between East and West, more than any other in Europe, we must recognize and support the important role played by the neighboring communities in keeping alive the spirit of relationship and dialogue with neighbouring countries, but also with the neighboring Italian communities, applies to all the example of minority communities present in Istria and Dalmatia. So the commitment that I ask the government to support is that which goes in the direction of mutual integration, confrontation, acceptance in the objective of building and training the European citizen. The strong characterization that the Government intends to give to culture in all its meanings - also due to the undoubted effects that can result from it for the revival of tourist and cultural activities, research, innovation and the environment - requires, in my opinion, a new, strong attention to the multilingual confines that constitute - I repeat - an extraordinary opportunity for the formation of the European citizen and especially for the training of internationality, interculturality and cooperation among young people. The request, therefore, is that the Government show a particular attention in supporting and enhancing initiatives and interventions aimed at promoting the knowledge of the mutual cultural and landscape heritage, especially where conditions of natural contiguity exist between peoples and peoples. Being of Gorizia, a divided city, I represent this absolute need of the territories. This applies to Gorizia, Trieste and all areas that live the "border." The borders still exist, must be overcome, indeed, their overcoming is a great opportunity for our children, for our future. Let us not forget these places that are the soul of our country. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u24	Senator Giro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u25	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while this House is about to discuss and finally adopt a new decree-law entirely devoted to the theme of culture and tourism, in this city, in the capital, one of the most prestigious cultural institutions, the Opera House in Rome, risks the forced liquidation, overwhelmed by debts and irresponsible management of staff. Yet, just a year ago, these parliamentary classrooms had always approved another decree, the Bray decree, which tried to give some answers and some ways out of the crisis in which all or almost all lyrical-symphonic foundations are placed. And even today, with this new and yet another decree, the Government decides to intervene with additional extraordinary measures in support of the world of opera. It seems to me that this is the emblem of a certain way of doing politics: a continuous and confused pursuit of the problems and emergencies that these problems produce, without ever having a precise framework of reference, a picture of the legal norms of common sense that we should try to establish, a picture of the economic and financial compatibility that a good administration of our cultural heritage has the duty to pursue and finally a picture of the cultural values that a nation like ours would have the right to defend. All this is still lacking: stable and shared legal rules are lacking; the rules of good administration are lacking; awareness and the will to defend the values of our cultural identity are lacking - and this is even more serious. If we are disappointed and also disappointed, we cannot be surprised by this situation. The decree Franceschini addresses the crisis of lyrical-symphonic foundations in its article 5. The Bray decree a year ago tried to give answers to the world of opera in its article 11: two legislative interventions over nine months and the result of this effort what is? The umpteenth extension of the deadline for the adaptation of the statutes of the foundations, initially fixed by the decree Bray to 31 December 2013, extended to 30 June 2014 by the law of conversion and today further moved by the decree Franceschini to 31 December 2014. It is an endless history of decree-laws, extensions, circulars and authentic interpretations and new decree-laws, which overlap and settle on previous ones: a buzz of norms that instead of helping and promoting the development of the sector risk to complicate the crisis. But, as I said, this should not be surprising: four years ago, in 2010, the Berlusconi government with Minister Bondi had the courage, coherence and responsibility to denounce the failure to manage the lyric-symphonic foundations, bringing to Parliament an organic and unitary measure that could bring a turning point in the sector, rationalising the really excessive, if not out of control, and instead promoting the productivity and quality levels of artistic production. This happened four years ago, in 2010, but from the left (an ideological and sectarian left) there was a rise of shields, a reaction so disproportionate that we were forced to a night session that ended only in the late afternoon of the following day, after 32 hours of confrontation in the Chamber. Yet there was everything in that provision: there was a complete revision of the organization and functioning of the lyric-symphonic foundations, through one or more delegification regulations; a procedure, the one provided for by Minister Bondi, surpassed by the 2014 stability law, but now it is even fully recovered by the decree of Mr Franceschini for the lyric-symphonic foundations that can have special organizational forms. A new collective bargaining procedure and new provisions on employees were finally laid down in the Bondi Act. In essence, the Bondi Act required employers and trade unions to write a new national collective agreement. The current one was now reduced to a skeleton, practically no longer existed, replaced by a myriad, by an endless plethora of supplementary business contracts, where waste and privileges were nested now unsustainable for the budgets of the foundations burdened with increasing debts. And the criteria set by our Government were and are those of today, those of the decree Bray and of the decree Franceschini: protection and valorization of the staff, efficiency, correct management, economicality, entrepreneurship, control and supervision on the economic and financial management, incentive of the improvement of the managerial results also through a different distribution of the Single Fund of the show that rewards the virtuous and criminalizes finally the less virtuous and above all block of the company supplementary contracts until the conclusion of the new national collective contract of work. Then there is the eventual prediction of special organizational forms for some foundations that demonstrate exceptional productive capacities, significant own increases, a significant and continuous financial support of private individuals, all criteria established by the Government, by our Government, and resumed by successive Governments. Yet there has been a formidable and stubborn resistance to our measure and now the consequences are before everyone's eyes: a consolidated debt of over 300 million euros, only partially re-absorbed, foundations with books in red, unions in revolt, artistic production at risk. The norms, as we have seen, are not lacking, but too many in these four years have been the ambiguities, the hypocrisies, the connivances with the old system, as if it could be eternally fed by the coffers of the State, by the FUS, which to the lyric foundations allocates half, 50% of its resources, 200 million per year; an enormity that falls negatively on the other sectors of the show, on the theatre, the cinema, the dance and the music. To conclude, I would like to make a few brief comments on the Grande Progetto Pompei. I have personally appreciated the work of the Chamber which has lightened in several points the possibility of derogation from the rules of public contracts relating to works, services and supplies. The House preferred to specify the boundaries within which the Director-General of the project may move in the selection of undertakings and in the subsequent award of contracts. The model to follow, Minister Franceschini, is that experienced in Rome between 2009 and 2011, when the Berlusconi Government appointed a commissioner for the archaeological area of Rome and ancient Ostia. Well, that Commissioner, architect Roberto Cecchi, Secretary-General of the Ministry, never exercised the substitute powers of the ordinary bodies that the norm allowed him, never resorted to procedures derogating from the code of public works; he more simply exercised his powers of coordination and direction in the management not only of the available economic resources, but also and above all of human resources. We did not ask the Commissioner for miracles or wonders and even less evidence of strength, but concrete actions and emergency interventions against the impressive degradation of the Roman Forum, the Palatine and the Colosseum. This is how the extraordinary operation of the integral restoration of the Colosseum, from the underground (i.e. from the underground) to the attic began, passing through the three architectural orders, North and South perspective: an operation at zero cost for the State, entirely financed by a prestigious company of Made in Italy, selected after a long and meticulous procedure that article 2, paragraph 4, of the so-called " Franceschini decree," today under discussion, reaffirms and consecrates definitively. I dedicate this article and this paragraph to Roberto Cecchi who, before, as commissioner to the archaeological area and after, in 2012, from Undersecretary to the cultural assets of the Monti Government, fought to define a definite and definitive regulatory framework of sponsorships at the service of the recovery of important cultural assets. Today this regulatory framework, after having facilitated the recovery of the Colosseum, can facilitate the intervention of private individuals in the Grand Pompeii project. At this point I cannot fail to recall that the left, the Democratic Party, the then leader, Mr Franceschini, today Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and the then national head of culture for the PD, Matteo Orfini, today president of the party, were clearly hostile to the so-called "Colosseum-Della Valle operation." We were even accused of having sold the image of the Colosseum to an entrepreneur who someone called the "scarf" of the Marches. Today that with five years of delay everyone applauds the patronage of the private that is offered to the public, I would smile if there were no cry. In 2009, only five years ago, the private Della Valle was considered a predator: today it is a model. Five years ago, someone claimed that it was only the State which had only its debts and very few resources, which, moreover, was badly spent and in a discretionary way. Today, instead, we invoke private resources through sponsorships and a more incisive tax advantage that, it is worth remembering, already exists for both natural and legal persons, but that the new tax credit at 65-50 percent will certainly make it more effective. I conclude with a warning, a warning: be careful not to oversize those responsible for the Grand Pompeii project. With the decree Bray we have identified the general manager of the project, a support structure of twenty units, a Great Pompeii unit of ten units and an interministerial management committee. Mr Franceschini's decree created a technical secretariat of twenty more units. My concern is that the classic carriage is being built, in which we do not understand who does what, where so many decide and then do not decide anything with the risk, now at the door, of employing only a fifth or, if we are lucky, a quarter of the funds allocated by the European Union, those legendary 105 million of which everyone is talking but which we risk losing. Then, despite us, we would be forced to do what we did, but for no plausible reason, Mr Franceschini in 2010 when, as a Parent Company, he demanded the resignation of Mr Bondi. But we are reasonable and fair people and we therefore hope that the Minister will be able to do his work serenely, bringing the results that we still do not see today. [[Applause from Senators Scilipoti and Pelino. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u26	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u27	Madam President, beyond the emphasis on this decree by the Government and many members of the majority, reading the text the feeling is that it is one of the many measures, which, in the end, represents very little compared to the needs of relaunching the sector of culture and tourism in Italy. It is part of a package of decrees carried out by the Renzi Government whose contents certainly do not represent the revolution to which - he had promised - Parliament would be activated in the coming months and in the famous 100 days. We are here to discuss, as in the House, a series of omnibus decrees that touch on interventions of all kinds in the field of culture and economic development, but that will certainly leave no sign. Therefore, all the emphasis that is dedicated to this debate is linked simply to the image that Prime Minister Renzi wants to emerge in the eyes of public opinion with respect to his work, without however that the results demonstrate an effective capacity in solving the problems of the country. I make direct references to this belief. In the first articles of the text we note that we face - as has often been done in the past - the various emergencies with absolutely inadequate measures: we go to intervene - for example - on the great artistic and cultural depletion of some of the most important assets of our country. I am referring, of course, to the Grand Pompeii project or to the redevelopment and enhancement of the Reggia di Caserta: these are two articles with very relative contents, almost irrelevant, where we have chosen to use extraordinary tools in the face of an absolutely ordinary and constant emergency over time. There are also measures that are critical, such as those provided for in Article 4, where urgent provisions to protect the decorum of cultural sites are mentioned, and in particular the possibility assigned to the Superintendences, to the Delegated Offices of the Central Ministry on the territory, to decide - for example - the elimination of markets or sites not considered suitable compared to criteria not highlighted in this law text and which are at the discretion of the Superintendents themselves who will take such decisions. I believe that this faculty is already in the availability of local administrators and mayors, who can therefore decide whether a site dedicated to a market is no longer suitable for reasons of decorum; the mayor must remain the power to redefine the positioning of such commercial activities, obviously with a broader view than that of the superintendent. It is clear, in fact, that a mayor analyzes the effect that causes the decision to eliminate a market or to move it in terms not only cultural and artistic but also of social impact; the superintendent, on the other hand, carries out a sector analysis absolutely insufficient and inadequate compared to the crisis that is experiencing the field of the street market. I therefore believe that this rule is dangerous because it leaves absolute discretion to a government body in relation to the government of the territory. As is questionable in Article 5, on support for symphonic lyrical foundations, in which there is a 50 million euro rotation fund that can only access those foundations that have declared the state of crisis; at least this emerges from the text of the measure that has been submitted to our examination. Therefore, foundations which have managed their resources better but also have debts to banks and are not in a situation of security or tranquillity with respect to their management are excluded from the rotation fund. Basically, therefore, the usual rule applies: those who manage their resources badly, those who declare the state of crisis are helped by the Government and the State, while those who manage resources better and try to avoid such incisive and negative measures are forgotten and ignored by the Central State and the Government. It turns out to me that this concerns, for example, the foundations of Turin, Venice, Verona and Milan that have not declared the state of crisis and that for this reason will be excluded from the rotation fund. We therefore call for special attention to be paid to them in the next steps to ensure that they are protected and not penalised simply because they have managed their assets and resources better. As far as tourism is concerned, it seems to me that the measure is little. I do not believe that with the tax credit allocated only partially in relation to the investments that the various operators will make, it is possible to give a truly new, innovative and revolutionary signal regarding the management of the sector. As is clear, the underlying problem is always the same: an excessive intrusiveness of the state through the tax levy that makes our operators less competitive than those that make companies in nations, even close to ours, where taxation is significantly lower. It is clear that this affects the rates and prices for all those looking for a tourist resort that combines the quality, the beauty of the places at competitive rates. The truth is that the state, through this measure, continues not to cooperate in the competitiveness of our tourist companies, and to configure itself as the usual occult partner that takes away much of the resources and that makes other places attractive. I believe that in the simplification measure there is little, of resources available even less, the important opportunities are scarce and the usual criterion is adopted that those who worst use their resources are more protected by the State and the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u28	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u29	Madam President, on this occasion too, the Government has shown that it is able to impose its democratic being, so much so that it has granted this assembly a few hours for the discussion, among other things, of a decree-law is of fundamental importance for the resumption of our country. But above all, this Commission has imposed on the Commission of Public Education, cultural assets to work in the cuttings of time between the protection of democracy by the opposition and the protection of the delirium of the caste. I would like to point out that, according to what the rapporteur has said, this measure is aimed at promoting art and culture. In particular, the text would enable a number of instances to be put into operation, which have been advanced over the years and which have not been implemented. Taking advantage of the words of the rapporteur, Senator Di Giorgi, according to which the decree-law is in the direction already undertaken by Decree-Law No 91 of 2013 so-called "culture value" in order to give new opportunities for work to young people by developing the potential in the cultural sector, I asked myself this question: how does this Government think to create jobs by developing the potential of the cultural sector? How do you plan to create jobs at a time when the financial crisis is decimating businesses and private individuals? When I read the main topics dealt with in this provision, I realized that the usual mistakes are repeated. The mistake of the commissioner is repeated; the error of strengthening the powers of a director is made; a serious mistake is made, that is to say, not to implement measures aimed at giving young people the opportunity to exploit abandoned and unused cultural assets, to be recovered and valued, so as to finally give courage and hope to the new entrepreneurial activities of the sector. Always with reference to young people, I wondered if it is possible that we never thought of giving the opportunity to our young artists to perform in the many theatres scattered throughout the peninsula. We complain that no one goes to the theater because you can't easily bear the costs for a ticket or even for an entire subscription. Is it possible that we are not able to exploit our theatres for concerts of music, dances, festivals, conferences, dance competitions, poetry reviews? It would be enough simply to copy to foreigners. Is it possible that to see the performances of young Italian talents we have to go to the Royal Albert Hall in London? Among other things, it seems a bit excessive to ask young people, who after sacrifices and a thousand difficulties managed to obtain a degree, to leave their country because this is not capable of fulfilling their dreams. It seems to me, as well as excessive, above all unfair. It is unfair because, in view of the potential that our Italy could really have, it hardly manages to breathe in very few sectors. I am Sicilian and of theatres my land is not deprived; indeed it boasts Greek theatres, Roman amphitheaters, even theatres such as the Bellini of Catania and the Politeama of Palermo that foreigners envy us and require us to perform plays of not indifferent fame and prestige, but sincerely they are the same Sicilian who denounces that cultural assets such as that of Catania, located in the center of the city and boasts to be one of the most important amphitheatres in the world, are collapsed. The colleague Puglia is from Portici, where the Reggia is vandalized and the excavations of Herculaneum and Pompeii are not readily protected and valued. Don't say that there is no work; it would be enough to put in place assets with invaluable artistic and cultural value to have in active many important national tourist attractions. I trust, therefore, in Minister Franceschini that he will be able to take seriously the idea of exploiting our cultural heritage, putting them in safety to allow our artists to work for something that belongs to their land and to the future of the generations that will come. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u30	Senator Ranucci is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u31	Madam President, Minister, I think that in this decree-law we have the possibility of having a vision of our country. Let's stop talking about oil: tourism and culture are definitely an important point for development. In the measure under consideration there is a vision that goes beyond the individual important points: we go from the lyric-symphonic foundations to the tax credit for the art bonus; we are among the first European countries at this time to propose such an important credit: for years the tourist sector tries to have a tax credit for the redevelopment, not only for the construction, but also for the purchases of furniture and furnishings. There is another point, Minister. Finally, the fight for the decoration of our country's sites begins. We can no longer think that the squares, such as Piazza Navona, Piazza di Spagna or Piazza del Pantheon, are now hostage to cheap sellers, where we see packages combined with the wonders of our country. I believe that this struggle is the way to finally give our culture and our sites that dignity so important to sell our product in the world. I have presented three agendas that I would like to submit to you. These are three important topics for the tourism of our country. The first concerns the problem of OTAs, which - as you know, Minister - are online travel agencies, which are now practically the owner of the tourism market, not only in our country but internationally, and do double damage to the user. Firstly, by virtue of the parity rate, no tourist company can make a better price than what is offered within these portals; secondly, companies are subjected to harassment, not only economic, with very high percentages, but, for example, TripAdvisor makes very often false reviews and the Competition and Market Authority has decided to initiate proceedings on this. We must try to ensure that there is an equal treatment and not an international monopoly, by developing also within our country the possibility of selling our tourism online. The second important point that we must try again to develop, Minister, is that of congressional tourism. Our country has a lot of tourism: the cultural one, the sports one and the one of pure fun. Congress tourism is an important tourism, which means not only bringing very qualified tourism, but also bringing from abroad the big conventions, ranging from science to technology. I think we need to aim for a national convention bureau. I know that you, Minister, are working, even with private individuals, so that this can happen. I hope that all the components of tourism that deal with this can really set up a convention bureau that will help bring to Italy that tourism that brings a lot of qualification. Clearly, we also need to ensure that our congress sites can finally reach an absolute attraction and attraction. I think that making a congress in Rome or Italy is much more attractive than doing so in countries where there are not all our attractions, both archaeological and cultural. The third proposal, Minister, is about marina resorts. In this decree-law we found a new system, that of condhotels, where we have the new opportunity to make tourism in hotels. We have a country that is surrounded by the sea, but very often we have not had the opportunity to develop it in a concrete and efficient way. Now the marina-resorts could become, as can be the campsites, of the reception points of the nautical: qualified points and with a differentiated VAT, the same one that is applied to tourism. In this way the nautical one would not only be a parking place of boats, but would also favor the knowledge of territories inside the places. Friuli has already applied this type of marina and taxation, and this will give us the opportunity to recapture this area of tourism, which is very important. I have heard from some of my colleagues that it would take much more than that. I believe - instead - that in this decree-law there are finally some things that have never been done in this country. I repeat: from art bonus to hotel tax credit. As for Pompeii, his redevelopment is very important. There too, Minister, there is a Commissioner and there is a chance to do so quickly. It is important that we do this quickly and well - we have also stressed this in the Commission - because, when we derogate from the procurement code, there is always great concern. We absolutely trust, however, that this concern can be transformed into the possibility of having a site so important and so beautiful, showcase of our country. We have seen how many people are interested and how Europe is interested; we have tens and hundreds of millions to spend, finally, on the redevelopment of Pompeii. Finally, I believe that we must ensure that the infrastructure is also spoken of, Minister. Very often there is no need for large investments. It is necessary instead to put in synergy the marine, aerial, railway and automotive transport with a large net, in such a way that the synergies make sure that our most beautiful places and our archaeological sites are reachable and can have a great promotion. I remind everyone that each Region spends tens of millions on promotion. I have always said this, without offending any friends of the Region (also they know it): sometimes in Dubai you have seen a great manifesto, with a beautiful photograph and with the writing: Come to Basilicata. I think it's more important to make it possible to come to Italy, because Basilicata is an important piece of our country. Perhaps it would be easier if all this was finally coordinated (I think Title V could help us in this sense), so that Italy can promote itself all together and so that these real possibilities, which are not oil, but are the economy of our country, can be enhanced, are jobs. If we can make the culture work, which is linked to tourism, transport and a country system, we will finally have a vision. I believe that in this decree-law we can read all this with great interest: finally a vision of a country, a tourist and cultural policy that I think can really give us the opportunity to make an important contribution to our economy and the GDP of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will probably have already been told by many that, with the appropriate enhancement of the creative industry and the cultural, tourist and museum sector of Italy, almost all the problems that affect the Italians could be solved, first of all the economic crisis, poverty and ignorance. You are presenting yourself in this House today with a decree-law (on which, among other things, you will put yet another confidence by blocking, if not as a suggestion, the appropriate amendments that we had proposed) which, as you certainly imagine, is a drop in the sea, a sea - a metaphor is passed to me - which is deadly polluted. The management of our country's cultural heritage is a sea of untransparent relationships, polluted by politics and politicians, by friends of politicians, by recycled politicians, by relatives of politicians, by foundations that are not transparent, by funding in rain. In all this there is no general vision, no coordination, no strategic plan, but only fragmented and clientele microgestioni. Look, Minister, I don't blame you. They've been incancrine for many years, and I don't think it's easy to get our hands on them. It takes more courage; among other things, we are at your disposal. The decree-law speaks of patronage with the art bonus. The patronage would be fine, if only, without an organic project of the State for the maintenance and valorization of our cultural public heritage, we surrender and let ourselves be saved by private individuals. This is what's happening. We are in a country whose goods are sold to make cash (this is the sad reality), to cope with public debts, for building and commercial speculations. Without a policy aimed at public management and the maintenance of our assets it privatises itself and becomes cash. That's the ratio. I come from Turin where the management of culture has always been PD stuff, your stuff. An example of this ratio: in Turin there is a part of Palazzo Reale, the Royal Cavallerizza (a public good, protected by UNESCO, where theatre was held), which is destined by the Municipality for sale for speculative purposes. The vice president emeritus of the Constitutional Court Paolo Maddalena, in a book (the common good territory of the Italians) explained why the alienations of the state property are legislative measures of exceptional gravity, which go against the letter and the spirit of the Constitution; they are sales to be considered absolutely null, because they contrast with the prevailing public interests of the Italian people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Ignoring the committees and citizens who are opposed to these things and who are fighting for a space of cultural activity and would know how to manage it, we move forward with the sale and, if the constraints are too many, somehow we are going around them. Another resounding example is the end in Rome of Cinecittà, which: closes, with many greetings to Fellini, to Scorsese to those who worked there, to the skills he kept and taught. You have to build houses and shopping malls, speculate and make cash. No protests from the intellectual world and radical chic left. Five million discounts, gentlemen, for the movies are few, they're nothing. Given the way you treat cinema, I no longer want to hear politicians and ministers proud of the skill of Italian technicians and directors, when, for example, you win an Oscar. The truth is that if we do not invest in a massive and meritorious way, the sector is already dead. Do you want to make a serious law, Senator Di Giorgi? I'm here, I'll wait for you. There are too many cases of speculation on culture throughout Italy. You have to change your mind for real. Talk about the employment of young people but then, in the end, managing culture are management monsters such as Zètema, which controls culture in Rome and parasite on public goods. We never help those who work with culture among the people, such as the citizens who manage, again here in Rome, in the popular district of Rebibbia, the theatre Gerini that is at risk of sale. Let us do as they do throughout Europe, Minister: let us clean up the administration; let us make a little transparency; let us clean up the system and build in a transparent and participated way a real long-term project to relaunch national culture and tourism, as they do in all more advanced countries; only in this way will we really start to live, grow and work. A guy who's been working in the culture business for 20 years, in the film business, tells him. The decrees and trusts will not serve anything, they will not change anything, at least for the Italian people. Furthermore, if we want to conclude, we cannot build this vision and this project if we continue not to have the Internet, if AGCOM continues to legislate on copyright alone, blocking the Internet. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There are macroscopic aspects that need to be addressed. I don't have the art bonus, let the defiscalizations come, but here you really have to think about a project in large: all the countries of Europe have a strategic project, all the countries that we consider evolved have a five-year or ten-year project, that they have developed in times of crisis. In the face of this, among other things, there are great commercials of yours, including the PD, which sing at 80 billion, at 5% of GDP. But, as you know, this share of GDP could be increased to 15%, I studied it on a text by Realacci of the Symbola Foundation and also says it a "slot" of MPs. Eighty billions a year are very few for what the culture sector could do. We are available, we are not just here to criticize, but we cannot go on like this, to decrees, to agendas, to "advisors" that the Commission does not accept. When the government wants to, we will be at its disposal to start solving these problems, starting from the bottom, from the base, from the multi-annual management that in a cross-cutting way, from the political and geographical point of view from the North to the South, has always been or mostly clientele. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u34	Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u35	Madam President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law today represents a long-awaited and important change of pace in the political approach to the issues of the protection, enhancement and income of our cultural heritage and tourism; as a factor of development among the most important for the social and economic revival of the whole country and in particular of the Mezzogiorno and the most marginal territories, but not least representative of culture. I remember that today the added value produced by the activities related to tourism is equal to approximately 83 billion euros, that is 6% of the total of the economy, value that could almost double from here to 2016, as confirm the data diffused from Formez and Federculture, if our Country will accelerate in the recovery of the lost competitiveness, determining the creation of new jobs and the entry to regime of numerous entrepreneurial activities born in the last years in the fields of the management of the cultural goods and the tourist services. We are talking, therefore, about a strategic sector at the industrial level, which has enormous potential for growth and which can make a fundamental contribution to economic development and work, especially in the light of those realities that faced with the growing international competition, with the emergence of new goals, starting from the Mezzogiorno, have been able to create innovative and affordable tourist products. In this sense, it becomes vital for Italy to develop an appropriate strategy capable of enhancing its heritage and overcoming the new challenges that are being played at international level, also in view of the great chance offered by the Italian Presidency of the European Semester. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the necessary review and modification of the strategy and policy of Europe 2020 is among its priorities precisely to put culture at the centre, so that it becomes a real pillar of the new Europe. To do this, however, we also need an industrial project for tourism that takes account of these major changes. Among other things, just in the face of the path of modification of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, before a bill of organic reform announced by the Government, the measure under consideration gives urgent answers in the matter of accommodation, tourist mobility, accessibility, technological innovation, rationalization of international promotion and promotion-marketing. Wanting to enter briefly in the specific, in the measure that we are discussing today there are important measures, among which we must mention the tax discounts for individuals and companies that help the Italian artistic and cultural heritage, but also for the restructuring and digitization of accommodation structures with a global perspective of relaunching the tourism sector. With regard to accommodation facilities, the tax credit is also extended to expenses related to additional interventions including those for the purchase of furniture and furnishing components, with a view to facilitating those structures intended exclusively for tourist activities. Very important is the granting of a tax credit for the years 2015 and 2016 to the extent of 30 percent of the costs incurred for the restoration and structural and technological adjustment of cinemas to be financed through a specific fund for the restoration of historical cinemas. Madam President, for those who, like me, come from Sicily, it is impossible not to evoke, in this sense, the suggestions of the film "New Cinema Paradiso" and I think it is important to intervene for the support of historical places, such as our cinemas, for the memory and identity of many city communities, often located within the historical centers. I am referring to interventions that combine the policy of protection and valorization with measures capable of producing concrete economics and community development, because our cultural heritage is strategic for its uneliminable intrinsic value, testimony of the past, but, at the same time, projection towards the future. We can say that the measure under consideration for the first time establishes a synergic relationship between two important social and economic realities of the country: culture and tourism. Minister Franceschini, when taking up his position as Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, claimed to take over the leadership of an economic department, even - he said - the most important of this country. It cannot be denied, in fact, that the Italian cultural heritage, the one consisting of the great historical testimonies of the past, the great places of culture, the great arts (visual arts, theater, music, opera), which makes Italy known and loved in the world, is not only a founding part of our memory and our being a national community, but also a great economic engine for the country. The intention of the decree-law in question goes in the sense of a profound and significant change of mentality with respect to the entire sector of culture and tourism, trying on the one hand to increase the resources available and, on the other hand, to start a new perspective of management of the same, directed to support the public management incentive forms of involvement of private individuals, to support important excellences of the Country, to enhance our cultural assets, to promote a more intense employment and involvement of professionals of cultural assets. Starting at the end, investing in the culture and in the recovery of the artistic and architectural heritage of our country, which represents one of the highest density places of presence of works of art, is the only intelligent choice to preserve this heritage, as well as to give impetus and breath back to the economy and the creation of jobs. With Decree-Law No. 83 of 2014 we are finally in the presence of a coherent and innovative complex of support measures and promotion not only of culture but also of tourism, which give a significant response to the needs of the country. This is an important step for the future of tourism; a necessary step for the recovery of our country. Finally, I would ask that I be able to hand over the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the report. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u36	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u38	Madam President, I will also make a few brief reflections starting from an overall appreciation for the general significance of the decree-law under consideration, for the further step that it allows to realize after that already achieved with the previous decree-law No 91 of 2013 and therefore for the will to continue to work on the field of culture, cultural goods, tourism, with the eye turned to the dynamization of the country and the possibility to seize all the opportunities of a growth also qualitatively - and not only quantitatively - sustainable. Of course, a decree of this nature can be submitted to various observations and also to some objections. In this debate I have heard some of them: we are not dealing with all aspects of cultural knowledge, and we are probably just the indispensable and necessary premise of a more comprehensive measure that tries to grasp all the links. But I want to defend the importance of this work and say that some absolutely priority issues have been selected - such as private intervention in support of certain maintenance needs of cultural and historical buildings that, otherwise, would risk being completely degraded and that of tourism, hospitality - as well as some of the most important events (in this case, we are talking about those promoted by lyrical-symphonic foundations). There are only a few issues - not all of them - aimed at highlighting priorities and making positive use of the resources available. In fact, it would not make sense to spread the few resources available on a huge amount of issues, as we would end up giving no basic answer to anything. These themes, however, are coordinated and included in the decree with a vision of assembly, which we must not disperse, of valorization of the peculiar characteristics of our country. Having said this and expressing a personal appreciation, which was not only my own, (in the work of the Commission we have seen a certain atmosphere of sharing and understanding, as evidenced by the fact that this measure has gone through the House without hostility and without votes against), I would like to deal with a single issue. I am starting from the subject that I am dealing more closely with within the Committee on Culture, namely the theme of music, seen essentially through the proposed intervention for lyric-symphonic foundations. I listened to some speeches, which complained that this is an eternal issue, from which you will never get out and that you are always struggling with the crisis of lyrical-symphonic foundations. We must grasp the important meaning of the proposed measure. It is true that another 50 million is allocated to the rotation fund available to lyrical-symphonic foundations to enable the operation to be completed. Depending on whether you evaluate this news from the scandalistic side or from the operating side, you can catch a different nuance, because it may seem that it is the umpteenth delivery and that we are within an infinite path of rescue of these foundations. But as the Minister said in the talks we had in the Commission, and as I think it is good to repeat in this House (probably the Minister will come back to stress it in his reply), we knew from the outset that the fund allocated in the previous decree was not enough to bring out the lyrical-symphonic foundations, which are involved in a serious process of financial degradation. Rightly, if you intervene, you cannot do a surgery in half, because if you do it you risk throwing away even that half of the money we invest. If we know from the outset that this money is not enough we could also be accused by the Court of Auditors of real and profound damage to the treasury and, therefore, make even the intervention that we are doing for the safeguard. At the very least, intervention is credible, the more difficult it is for it to become rigorous. Since we need very strict intervention in the lyric-symphonic foundations, the operation must be credible, otherwise it will not stand. We must take note of an intervention that has this aim: to complete the work; to stimulate the Superintendences and the administrative directions and, in some cases, some commissioners to complete the work (as lyric-symphonic foundations the expression fits in fine). It is necessary to ensure that all new constraints are respected and to avoid there being - as sometimes seems to be grasping by reading the press - sudden elements of relaxation as soon as you see some additional financial resource, which leads everyone to say that the worst has passed and that you can safely resume navigation, when instead you have to take this operation to the end. We have usefully heard in the Commission a commitment from the Minister to call the Special Commissioner to report to Parliament, to the Commission, as soon as the data are available, so as to know how this operation is going. As we believe we can say that this time, with the EUR 50 million, the operation can be closed without additional resources being needed, we need to ensure that the operation can go through with it. In this sense I too, like all of us, expect from Minister Franceschini a clarifying word. I shall close on this issue, and I shall conclude by saying that we must all work to ensure that the lyric-symphonic foundations quickly reach out of the crisis tunnel. When I say all of us, I am not just referring to politics, but to all those cultural operators in the field of music who are not part of the lyric-symphonic foundations and who today see in the drama of the same also the negation or, if we want, the easing of attention to them. Moreover, the problem of opera theatres is so serious that the other realities (ICO Foundation, orchestras, theatres of tradition) are deceiving themselves that it is long before the crisis involves them. Therefore, we need this problem to be quickly resolved so that we can finally look at the complex of symphonic musical reality, classical, but also of other genres, in order to be able to address the issue in a synergistic logic. Today it is difficult to ask an ICO, an orchestra to create a common project or some form of synergy or collaboration with a lyrical-symphonic foundation, because the state of uncertainty about the future is such as to make this impossible. I wanted to break a spear in this direction in the hope of going to the regime soon. The last minute I would like to remind him that I have presented an agenda in the Chamber that wants to bring to the attention of the Government the theme of contemporary music, also as an element of connection with the lyrical-symphonic foundations. In fact, on the national territory there is a wide range of experiences related to this sector: festivals; musical reviews; courses for young musicians. Our composers and performers have now reached an excellent level, to the point of being able to claim that contemporary Italian music is among the most important and significant in Europe and the world. Moreover, since the Minister has already said so on other occasions about visual art, it must be remembered that contemporary is not something we do in a bizarre way because everything is always contemporary. Even when Michelangelo painted the Sistine Chapel he created a contemporary work, realized at that time, it was not an ancient work, just as Verdi wrote contemporary music because it referred to that time. Today we have to take care of our time. There is a character of dynamization, aimed especially at the new generations, very careful, there are opportunities for important international exchanges, because by now contemporary music far exceeds all geographical frontiers and becomes a new language, often linked - as my colleague Airola said just now - to new technologies, to the Internet. I conclude by wishing that the Minister will be able to take this signal and recommendation, because the activities that are taking place and making Italy the European capital of contemporary music go on without the attention of the sponsors and without a minimum of support from anyone. Therefore, the hope is that there will be the way, at the limit also cutting from the FUS (in the alternative, but if a small fund is allocated it is better), to find resources that are carefully calibrated on the basis of a merit assessment on the quality of the events and on what is being done. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u40	Madam President, Minister, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time that we are talking about culture in this House and has already been mentioned by some other Members. So I will not touch on the arguments that I have already touched on during the examination of the previous measure, but I will devote myself to some new topics addressed by this decree-law, without neglecting an issue that was at the center of my intervention on the previous occasion and that was the relationship between culture and tourism. I already greeted with satisfaction then the fact that the Government had merged the two competences into a single Ministry as the signal to consider these two sectors linked from a strategic point of view. I have always said that culture needs tourism to be valued and supported, to be able to create economies and therefore to be able to raise resources. In the same way tourism absolutely needs culture to be more competitive and to make the difference compared to other tourist offers. Italy fortunately has a great wealth of cultural resources. We perhaps have the greatest artistic and cultural heritage in the world and, therefore, tourism must find the right formulas to enhance this heritage and we must find new formulas to integrate the two sectors. New ideas are definitely needed to attract new tourists and new types of tourism. I have to say that the decree-law in our examination goes in part in this direction and also introduces some important innovations, some of which I will then point out, but in this field we need more courage to be able to integrate these two sectors more, also with the agriculture sector (especially tourism). I would also like to point out the positive news of the strengthening of the deduction system, because I have always been convinced that this is the only way to actually finance cultural interventions. I also appreciated the proposals of the plan of large assets to increase the productivity of the Italy system. Even the Thousand Youth Fund for Culture, although certainly insufficient, is a first important signal that offers many young people important opportunities. I also appreciated the support for the adaptation of cinemas, both for the direct support of cinema managers, some of whom are in difficulty and require considerable investment in the field of digital, both for indirect support to the film industry, which in Italy is a great tradition and which is currently going through a time of crisis. Among the interventions on the tourism sector I signal the support for youth start-ups for tourism promotion, zero bureaucracy areas, the possibility of granting public buildings that have cultural value also for tourist use: they are all positive interventions. Again, as has also been mentioned by those who preceded me, the lyric-symphonic agencies and - I would like to say - the lobby of their employees return to the field: I really hope that we can settle these bodies and that sooner or later they will actually be able to respect their budgets. I have to say, I would have expected them to stay out of the action this time. I would like to mention my amendment on the subject of entertainment agencies that was not accepted because the measure was clearly armored. However, I must thank the Commission, the President, in particular, and the representatives of the Government, for I have had the opportunity to explain some of these issues. I do not believe that the condition of our entertainment agencies improves as long as the Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010 remains in force, which provided, as the Minister knows well, that the participation of the collegial bodies, also of administration of the bodies that in any case receive the contribution to public finances as well as the ownership of those bodies is honorable. Non-adapting institutions may not even receive contributions or benefits indirectly from public finances. It is clear that we can expect the directors of any theatre or symphonic orchestra to do so on an honorary basis, but when we talk about entertainment agencies, with particular reference to the entity that manages all the activities of the shows in the province of Trento, which has budgets of several million euros and that sees the directors respond with all their responsibility for this management, pretending that it is an honorary office risks to degrade it and not to give value to this responsibility. I therefore hope that the Government will remedy this problem, on which I have tabled an agenda which has been approved by the Commission, because it risks becoming truly essential especially for certain territories. The draft law also deals in part with the reform of institutions in the field of culture. I am convinced that on this point we must have more courage and tidy up. Unfortunately, it does not deal with SIAE reform. I remember that the former Minister in the course of a question time had expressed the intention that the sector should be radically reformed; I hope so because there is really a need to update the legislation to protect certainly the copyright, but also to protect those who use music, distinguishing activities that have market value and activities that refer to pure and simple volunteering. In this respect, I had tabled an amendment, which was then put on the agenda accepted by the Commission, to provide for the exemption of SIAE and voluntary associations and the reduction to 50% of all events involving fewer than 200 people. In fact, we cannot put on the same level the activity of a discotheque with that of an elderly club that on Sunday, while doing the race of trumps, listen to a CD to spend better time. Unfortunately we talk about a few hundred euros on Sunday, with situations that sometimes make it impossible to use music in a context that has absolutely nothing commercial. I have also spoken on the trade sector, because I believe that it is possible to improve the coexistence between the practice of trade on the areas subject to constraint or, better, on the areas outside those more properly bound. Although I realize that the objective of reducing commercial pressure on areas of cultural value is fair and meritorious, I believe that in the most external and marginal areas it is also important to allow this type of activity, laying down precise criteria and that in the end this increases the attractiveness of the cultural resource. I also believe it is important to have more courage in supporting cultural volunteering in terms of both deburocratisation and direct support. In this respect, I had made some proposals, which were also transformed into agendas because it was impossible to amend the text, which provides for the possibility for minimum amounts to be able to deduct offers for cultural volunteering from the tax return and to be able to deduct, always for minimum quotas, the entry to training courses. I would like to make a clear point that cultural voluntary associations do not have a commercial nature. I think everyone is aware of the importance of cultural volunteering to promote, on the one hand, accessibility to culture and, on the other, social cohesion, but I would also like to say to develop cultural entrepreneurship. To be appreciated is also the article that deals with historical carnivals. The Trentino, moreover, has put on the field the Carnival King of Europe project, extended to all Europe, that has been awarded in several cultural contexts. I would also like to mention cultural enterprises. We certainly need to develop more entrepreneurship in the cultural sector. Someone said you don't eat culture. On the contrary, I believe that with culture you can eat and also develop businesses, which can be cooperative and also individual. We must certainly find new forms, provide special incentives, but today we must help - for example - many forms of volunteering that are already structured to become a business. We have young people who are very prepared and motivated. I, however, who have been a provincial cultural councillor for a parliamentary term, can assure you that we have many young people who are willing to put themselves at risk if they only have a minimum of assistance, especially in the capacity to start a business and structure work in an entrepreneurial way. I also appreciated the derogations on staff mobility. In the decree on public administration, which will soon come to the examination of the Senate, I hope we can go even further, because we need to guarantee both workers' rights and mobility and flexibility in the use of staff, because culture needs to be able to adapt and reward those who have ideas and still succeeds in excelling in a particular sector. I would also like to focus on the 2019 European Capital of Culture programme. As you will know, Minister, Venice with the North-East had submitted its candidacy, which was then rejected, because the ban provided for a very limited territory, while we had decided to try to develop a reasoning on a wider area. However, it was an important job and I am very pleased that the Senate wants today to enhance these projects and experiences that have made, however, a programmatic effort. However, when the ban closes, I would like to see the value of projects that convert degraded areas, which transform areas with social degradation problems into virtuous areas that are culturally stimulating. I believe that the Ruhr project, which is the last European Capital of Culture, is truly emblematic. It is extraordinary how they have managed in Germany to transform an area very degraded from the environmental point of view into an absolutely rich and innovative from the cultural point of view. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Panizza, I invite you to conclude. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'll do it quickly, ma'am. I also like the Italian Capital of Culture project, because it is good to produce competition between different realities and different experiences. I would also like to make one last mention of the centenary of the beginning of the Great War. I have tabled an agenda to ensure that Italy can truly be at the heart of the European chessboard and I have nominated Trentino to host an international event in which the values of Europe that unites and does not divide are underlined. President Renzi, in his last recent visit to the Brenner tunnel, had the opportunity to point out that countries, which were fighting a hundred years ago, today instead build a tunnel to join. I also welcome the proposal of the youth start-ups for the development of the web in the tourism sector. It is absolutely strategic that some interventions make the use of personnel in tourism more flexible. A last mention, having been the subject of some interventions that preceded me, is on the Made in Italy. I am perfectly convinced that Italy must develop a unitary brand, but it is also true that it is characterized by respect to the rest of the world in order to have many different diversity and resources. The important thing is to make sure that diversity is promoted together, without erasing, valorising each one, and that they succeed in having a common platform. This, of course, belongs to the national direction, to the reform of ENIT, which is also contained within this measure, which I hope will help Italy and the individual regional and provincial identities to promote together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u41	I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.29 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) The session is resumed. Let us continue with the general discussion. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u42	Madam President, this measure has the title - we read - of the protection of cultural heritage, the development of culture and the revival of tourism. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u43	I would ask colleagues to lower the volume of the buzz, because I believe that Senator Stefani has difficulty in making her speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u44	Please, Senator Stefani. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President. As I said, the title of this measure, in fact, raises many hopes because we are talking about the protection of cultural heritage, the development of culture and the revival of tourism. In the end, however, we are surprised, because reading the text of the decree-law we notice that we are dealing with issues, that we are now a little tired of listening, more like localization. In fact, we are still talking about Pompeii's Great Project as well as - another great cultural theme - the reorganization of the rooms of the Palace of Caserta. First of all, as always, these are interventions that do not concern the areas we care about (the North), while considering that there are realities that would really need a clear consideration from the Government, which they do not have instead. Moreover, we are still talking about these themes that a little'recount - in memory of last year - interventions at the Uffizi, as well as in Naples, whose vocation more as an electoral campaign than at that time was already doubted. The problem of our country is represented by the fact that it has a great tourist and cultural vocation, but today we are faced with a decree-law - which, therefore, faces an emerging situation - and unfortunately we find that in the 7th permanent Commission, instead of having many interventions, documents and measures, in the end we have really found ourselves with very few initiatives. We are also a little puzzled by those parts of the decree-law that concern the mandate given to the Director-General for Pompeii. Unfortunately, we have unfortunately known what the effects of certain Commissioners and certain special laws can be for the management of certain situations. We have had a sad exemplification, unfortunately, also in Veneto. In this case, we are faced with a Director-General who - as we read in the provision - will be able to act in particular by way of derogation from procurement rules. This is a very serious situation because, while we want to trust in extreme correctness and mirrorness on the part of all those who work and come to speak with this Commissioner, we must realize that in Italy certain situations can be truly sad. Therefore, the granting, by law, to a figure of being able to act by way of derogation from the current legislation certainly reveals strong doubts and doubts. We are talking about anti-corruption issues, which we are talking a lot about. These are issues which, in recent months, are being dealt with in the newspapers and then we find ourselves, instead, inserting a standard of this kind. We also have other doubts about the Palace of Caserta. I would remind you that, on the issue of re-use of space, we in the North League had, at the signature of my colleague Mr Comaroli, put forward a draft law which had also been carried out in the Finance Committee, in which the Government was invited to re-use public spaces, considering, for example, that in public structures there is an average of 27 square metres of space for each employee. We understand that, instead, in private this can be quite different. Another thing that surprises us of this measure and which leaves us absolutely perplexed is the removal of holes of lyric-symphonic foundations. In a situation like that of Italy, there is a need, not only for large resources for the business world, for work and for young people, but also for interventions at the level of culture and tourism, which perhaps are not those to go to remedy these situations. By the way, it is noted that the liquidity used to cover this expenditure is likely to be recovered by decreasing the resources also of public administrations to pay the debts of their suppliers. Why not, instead, go and engrave using the remedies of spending review, rather than go and take away resources from other absolutely essential sectors? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] So we ask ourselves: why not pour this money into culture and tourism and above all, into our business world in this absolutely dramatic situation? PRESIDENT. - The debate is You should finish, Senator Stefani. STEFANI (LN-Aut). I simply conclude. The policy of the centre-right and even more so of that of the North League, has always been referred to as an anti-cultural and ignorant attitude, which has probably never had any follow-up. But let's look at what has been done since the beginning of this legislature for culture and tourism and to raise this vocation: if this is the way of the center-left to make culture, we are very disgusted. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u45	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u46	Madam President, I will make a premise. It is regrettable that there is no doubt about the conversion of this decree-law, despite the good will of the oppositions, including myself, who have withdrawn amendments (which the PD Group did not do), because at this point we find ourselves in a sleepy Chamber and in a situation where debate and debate on such a fundamental and important issue are cut short. It is a key theme for our country: a key theme, not only for development, but - even more - for an entire philosophy and for the whole way of seeing the country. Sorry all the more, because we are faced with a measure that is actually configured as a container; a container with a lot of will and quid in terms of announcements and purposes (which we are now accustomed to), while as much as it must be declined in detail is entrusted to other instruments. There are many questions. Briefly, I would like to review some of these questions, rather than spread in detail the elements from which this decree-law is constituted, since we will not be able to amend and discuss any of its contents. I want to discuss the general principles, hoping that the Minister, in the many instruments that will then have to be activated in order to give body to this container, will take some observations into account. In the meantime, I'd start with the covers. The instrument that is used, the tax credit, if on the one hand it has the merit of being an instrument of responsibility also of the private one regarding the protection, the conservation and the redevelopment of the heritage, on the other hand has a great fragility, linked to the fact that it is difficult to quantify and that its continuity over time is not certain, which instead to all the instruments that must protect and enhance our cultural heritage should be guaranteed. Of course, there are significant aspects to the measure. We have seen, for example, that, in the debate in the House, elements aimed at ensuring transparency and advertising have been included in a massive way, also based on the possibility of verifying the correspondence between these disbursements and the actual impact on the state of conservation and redevelopment of the goods. Advertising and transparency also concern the Grande Progetto Pompei, which, however, we tremble over the term "deroghe" alone, despite the fact that certain limits have been set to the derogations provided for the Director-General. The concept of innovative start-up is also positive, although - I must say - some amendments tabled to the competitiveness decree, in order to make more operational the regulatory provisions relating to innovative start-ups dating back to the Monti Government, have not been accepted in the context of the examination of that decree. This is a form of contradiction, in addition to the fact that the innovative start up provided for in this decree is exclusively of a digital nature. We are focusing a lot on the digital world, but we lose sight of the fact that, in our business culture (innovative start-up must become a business), there is not only digital creativity, but there are also other terms, other forces, other creative and productive capacity. The whole measure therefore appears as a declaration of intent. Now, Minister, the goodness of these intentions will depend on subsequent acts (decrees and regulations) and on this goodness will result both success and failure. At this point, I want to take the liberty of making some general observations. Within the decree there is a passage, in particular Article 12, in which there is talk of simplifications of the authorization process. I am afraid of this and I am also afraid of everything that will then have to be decided by the committees that will have to be set up to the quality of these committees. You see, Minister, too often the relationship between citizenship and heritage protection is interpreted as a conflict relationship. I would like to mention one example which concerns my city, but which unfortunately is an example that is produced throughout the territory; it implies a confrontation between citizens and administration. On the occasion of the excavation of a parking lot, archaeological remains were found: a chronicle of an announced discovery, since the parking lot is excavated in the center of a city that, located on the line of Via Emilia, obviously has a long history in Roman times. Well, I'm still waiting to know exactly what the regional superintendence has arranged. Meanwhile, I get information about the beginning of the works and the construction of extremely invasive diaphragms, which will surely destroy the archaeological remains. When we hear of simplification of the authorization procedures, we must bear in mind that the first ones with which a close link is established between heritage and the preservation and exploitation of the heritage itself are citizens, because the citizen is the first potential controller and promoter of cultural goods. And if it isn't, Minister, it has to be. The speech made by the rapporteur, Di Giorgi, about the school is interesting. I would say that we must go far beyond what was said by the senator, we must go far beyond a simplistic link between the superintendences and the universities that specifically prepare the operators of cultural heritage. In fact, I believe, Minister (and soon I will borrow the words of Salvatore Settis), that when we talk about Made in Italy we do not refer only to a territory. It would be more correct to say "made by Italians," thanks to what is Italianity. If it is true that at school you learn what culture is, what our heritage is, what our history is, and you acquire the fundamental concept of beauty that is what makes our creative ability unparalleled, it is a cultural factor, not simply environmental. Surely it is the school, and not only the specialized one, the one in which we are going to determine this close relationship that exists between Italian citizens and that 'unicum which is a heritage constituted by the result of a history rich in time and the heritage of creativity that we have today. It is interesting to hear from the voice of a senator of the PD, who is part of the Education Commission, who deals not only with culture but also with school, that this sense of beauty, this engine, this incredible deposit that we Italians have is born first of all from the school. Let's hope you remember this when you ask the country (and the country will be asked!) to help to heal what seems like an endless race of our country towards default. Well, do not ask the school, because the school, with the few resources it has, must already fulfil the function of maintaining this continuity, of maintaining this culture high, because it is not only the culture of the operators of cultural goods, but the much deeper one that moves in all the professionalism that is developed in our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I would just like to conclude with a brief quote: There is an intimate link between the institutional conception of cultural heritage, which is typical of the Italian tradition, the school, which must perpetuate its consciousness in all citizens, and the university that must, together with superintendents and museums, promote an ever greater knowledge of it. On the front of protection, as on that of school and university, what is at stake is the very nature of Italy as a political community aware of the past and for this reason able to build a future that is worthy of it. The Italian specificity is in the contiguity not only historical, but also civil and institutional between the citizens and the heritage that belongs to them. It is a widespread education, a widespread awareness of its cultural heritage, what Italy needs. What is Italian uniqueness? We can indicate two elements, the two sides of the same medal: firstly, the culture of integrated and territorial conservation, which conceives as a whole the landscape and the cities, the villages, the buildings, the paintings, the manuscripts, the museums. I would not like this to become contradictory when I see that in the decree unblocking Italy there are 42 billion cement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). I will finish now, Madam President. Forty-two billion that instead of being invested in the care of the territory, also in the face of all the needs that our territory has, will be destined to the realization of other consumption of soil. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Within a government there must be a harmonization to make Italians understand exactly where they intend to go. [[Applause from Senators Pepe and Gaetti]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree provides for a number of interventions in various areas of culture, making it difficult to enter into the substance of the individual forecasts; therefore, for the sake of time, I confine myself to two rapid general considerations, with only a few articles on the subject. The first aspect that I intend to address is the consideration that the Renzi Government and Minister Franceschini, as well as in the Letta Government Minister Bray, propose a decree to mean that there is the will to put culture at the centre of the government's initiatives; this takes on greater significance at a time of difficulty and economic recession, situations in which it is precisely culture that runs the risk of becoming a marginal sector and suffer cuts and cuts generalized more than rationalization in the expenses for new investments. In this new decree-law there is also the will to give continuity and to prolong the effectiveness to some lines of action of the previous Government (Grande progetto Pompei, the temporary recruitment of young people for the cataloguing of cultural goods and others). These lines are flanked by other innovative guidelines. Second consideration. This measure combines culture and tourism in the same measure, not unevenly but in close correlation, as sectors that integrate with each other. This House has often addressed the issue of including non-related but completely uneven issues in the same measure, but it certainly will not happen on this occasion. Already in the 7th Commission, on the occasion of the presentation of Mr Franceschini's policy lines, this issue was addressed, seeing the combination of culture and tourism as a possible driver of economic development. Linking culture and tourism has intrinsic purpose to enhance the invaluable heritage of museums, monumental, archaeological, historical, architectural, environmental heritage of which every Region of Italy is rich, but also the many cultural initiatives that range in the most disparate sectors, from music to art, from folklore to historical re-enactments, from local customs and customs to initiatives related to our food and wine prerogatives. It is a path to be taken with the necessary caution to defend our prerogatives, but also with intelligence to ensure that they can become real resources. With regard to certain detailed considerations, within the meaning of Article 1, which, by introducing a facilitated tax system, albeit of a temporary nature, in the form of a tax credit for natural and legal persons who make free-of-money payments for interventions on cultural and entertainment structures, has an innovative and certainly interesting aspect. Taxpayers who will be able to take advantage of this credit to the extent of 65% of the disbursements made in 2014 and 2015, and 50% for 2016, will be encouraged by this forecast to devote part of their resources to liberal money disbursements for maintenance, protection and restoration of public cultural assets, places of culture of public property, such as museums, libraries, archives, archaeological areas and parks, monumental complexes. Positive is the forecast of a single tax regime for individuals and legal persons, surpassing the current different regime that sees the deduction of 19% for the former and the deduction from the tax base for the latter. It is a forecast that puts us in line with other European countries in which this standard has been in place for some time. However, we see a limit in the fact that this possibility is temporary (three years); another limit that we note is that it is intended only for structural interventions and not also for cultural initiatives. Article 12, in application of the spending review, provides for a restructuring of the Superintendences, providing for a plan of amalgamations, but also some simplifications in the granting of Landscape Authorisations; this is a particularly sensitive area of the authorisations, often affected by conflicting opinions, sometimes caused by the subjectivity of the expression of opinions. The establishment of a guarantee committee, set up, as is the intention of Minister Franceschini, by the supervisors of the various sectors, makes it possible to avoid recourse to the ordinary judiciary, entrusting the decision to a collegiate opinion. Of course, there is a risk that a committee of several parties, who will need to talk to each other, to consult with each other, will lead to longer procedures. In the overall reordering it will therefore be necessary to provide for maximum time limits for expressing opinions. Certain times, therefore, and opinions no longer subjective will have to be the fundamental objectives of the reorder. In my opinion, it is necessary to go beyond the concept of protection in itself, of protection as a mere preservation of the good, in order to look at a broader and more modern concept - let me, even more European - of protection and exploitation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, I would ask you to conclude your speech. Unfortunately, your time is almost over. I'll give you one more minute if you'd like to finish. Conte (NCD). Thank you, President. Absolute protection very often leads to abandonment and slow decay that preludes to the destruction and disappearance of the good. Also significant is the provisions of Article 4, which provides for the adoption of the 2019 Italian Programme, aimed at enhancing the design heritage of the dossiers for the candidacy of Italian cities to European Capital of Culture 2019 and the conferral, by the Council of Ministers, of the title of Italian Capital of Culture. A laboratory of good practice to enhance the best projects in the management of artistic and cultural heritage. The opportunities for valorization of the Italian heritage offered by this decree are contemporaneous with the forecasts related to the tourism sector, for which incentives are provided, also in the form of economic incentives, to improve the quality of the accommodation facilities, the qualification of the operators, the computer modernization. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Count, I invite you to conclude. Conte (NCD). Yes, Madam President, I conclude by saying that this is a measure that goes in the right direction, that of the integration of the two sectors. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Marcucci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u48	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this measure, also known as an art bonus, fits well in that plausible path of renewal and improvement of the cultural and artistic potential of our country, to be understood as an irreplaceable flywheel for the economic growth of Italy, after a season that has certainly not shone for courage and operational foresight. Of this reversal of course we must give credit to Minister Franceschini, who - as they say - wanted to put his face on it. But we cannot overlook, Minister, also the strategic value of certain investment, protection and promotion measures. Actions aimed at strengthening the image of Italy in the world and its role as a driving force for the path of cultural integration at regional and European level. It is precisely on this point that I address you, Minister, precisely to draw attention to the ambivalent potential of this measure and to what can and must be done. I refer to an amending proposal that I filed, the 2.0.1, aimed at correcting the appropriation destined to the Historical Museum Archive of Rijeka, an undisputed reference of the activity of promoting historical research, study and specialization in the context of the memory of the tragedy of the foibe and the historical deepening of related events. An amendment that, if there had not been the imposition of the question of trust, I would have withdrawn by filing a request for commitment to the Government through an agenda that, according to my calculations, would be the fifth on the subject, to follow the others already accepted by the Government. It points to this that the attention and sensitivity of the Government on the subject are not lacking: what is missing, perhaps, is the opportunity to turn the attention into a concrete political project. I remember that the appropriation to the Historical Museum Archive of Rijeka, recognized by Law No. 92 of 2004, known as "the law of remembrance," has been heavily reduced over the last few years, at the moment reducing to a few thousand euros. Therefore, a structure that is a concrete example of a shared transnational memory, the Italian and Croatian, has been put in a position to no longer operate. The Archive represents, with its activities, its history and its constant reference of historical and cultural emancipation, the emblem of the logic of sharing historical events that unite friendly and neighbouring countries such as Croatia and Italy. Especially in a lively historical-political season such as the current one, sharing has the merit of facilitating, if not optimizing the dynamics of European integration at regional level. All this is located well beyond the historical lawsuits, but it is simply an act of common sense and cultural foresight, towards a unique structure of its kind that through its intense work of deepening and confrontation, even between Italian and Croatian institutions, is placed in a path of effective European integration. Through the memory, guarded and cared for, it is possible to understand the evolutions of the future and on this, aware of the sensitivity that distinguishes your initiatives, Minister, I am sure that your commitment with your Dicastery will not be lacking. [[Applause from Senators Romano and Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u50	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u51	Madam President, it was by no means easy to make a good decree on such a difficult subject and together dotted with so many failures and above all with too much rhetoric. Who ever, in fact, did not say that the main Italian resource is its beauty? From the eighteenth century onward, the journey to Italy, the grand tour, was not only an opportunity for recreation, prototourism, but the occasion of the European elite for its own formation, was the real occasion of the spirit. When Montaigne told us about how to die and gave great teachings of wisdom, he set the journey to Italy at the top of his desires before his death. We remember, that was his great desire. This was for Europe: not only the garden, the mild climate place, the Gardaland of old times, but the place of Bildung, the formation of all the European elites, the place of spirit. We've heard that a lot, too many times. So the problem isn't that, it's not having discovered the connection between art, culture and tourism, the fact that they keep together in an indissoluble way. The merit of this decree is to have emerged from this affirmation, which has become a commonplace: it is the attempt to give a concrete, practical and economic response to the problem, to get out of the abstract words. This is the merit of Minister Franceschini and his colleagues who worked on this project in the Culture Commission, which, with great diligence, spoke on all these issues. I would like to mention just two of them, which I was particularly impressed by. The first is the very concrete link between public and private, the culture behind it. A link that is the cross and delight of our system Italy: in reality it is a cross and never a delight when it is applied to culture, for old and unhealthy national traditions. On the one hand, it has always been a taboo the relationship between culture and money, and in this the left has always shown great prejudice, believing that the contamination of culture with money would impoverish and in some way corrupt culture. On the other hand, on the other hand, the right has always argued that with culture one does not eat, that the three "i" were needed. This binomial has been harmful, it has produced a paradoxical result, absurd for a country like ours that is at the origin of the spirit not only of Europe but of the West, so paradoxically, because of this tremendous binomial, the culture we have become residual and parasitic; a binomial, of course, fruit of many reasons, including an idealist culture that has not known neither the pragmatic Anglo-Saxon, nor the French Enlightenment, nor that of the common good of Germany. A country that boasts a state of preservation of the archives that we don't even dream of: Münster, in Westphalia - I'm not talking about Berlin or Munich - has an investment on the archives superior to ours. The examples may be countless, but I am beginning to conclude. So I find this very interesting: the new spirit of public-private relations with tax relief and a series of concrete interventions. The second question - as the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi pointed out - is a new, renewed approach to humanistic culture and the traits of a humanism of which we are the founders. An approach that we have discouraged not only in its most traditional, rhetorical and desuous manifestations, in some way death, but also in the novelty that they boast today, in the face of a crisis of techno, a culture only technical, on which instead we have jumped. Precisely because of an abstract and old-fashioned humanistic idealism, we have discouraged our students from taking this path. How many students, but also parents (because the age of maturity continues today), come to the university to ask us what they have to make their children choose. The important thing is not to make a humanistic faculty: it is very wrong for two great reasons. The first is that these studies constitute a fundamental formation, decisive for any art, profession and applied profession; they are proving it 3,000 statistics and not only reasonings that can be a little academic and therefore save you. The second is the economic value of these subjects. We send students to study classical languages, especially ancient Greek, in the forests of Canada, where there is the largest center of specialization in ancient Greek. England has a very long tradition for the Latin language or Germany for history. I will end by thanking Minister Franceschini and begging him to stop sending our students to those forests in Canada or Germany. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u52	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree, although it has some positive measures, contains some measures which we can define as real mess, particularly for the tourism sector. They are a mess that denotes the lack of knowledge of the sector by the government that proposed it. I refer, for example, to Article 9, which provides for incentives in the form of a tax credit mainly for accommodation facilities, for expenses, among others, relating to the sale of tourist services not only receptive but also extra-receptive, which, together with overnight stays, constitute, in accordance with European Directive No 314 of 1990, tourist packages whose organisation and sale are activities that can be exercised only by travel agencies, in accordance with our state and regional laws. I refer to Legislative Decree No 11 of 1995, then incorporated in the Tourism Code (Articles 32 to 51), and all regional laws on tourism activities. Granting tax credits to carry out digitization costs and even extra-receptive services will result in at least one of the following problems: in one case the exercises exploit the credit to digitize the services, building dedicated websites, without then selling the extra-receptive services, not being able to do it for European, Italian and regional regulations; it follows that the contribution would not achieve the purpose identified by the law, wasting economic resources, as well as incuring possible remarks of the Court of Auditors. In other cases, the accommodation establishments will actually offer accommodation services integrated with extra-receptives, but they will violate numerous laws, even in the event of possible infringement of Community rules. In short, a real mess, also because, besides the violation of legal norms, the allocation to the receptive exercises of tasks of organization and mediation constitutes a resounding autogol in the organization of the tourist system in Italy, because many travel agencies and tour operators would see diminished their motivations to invest resources in the organization of tourist packages, penalising the whole system. Further threat to the category comes from Article 16 of this decree, in which, in reorganizing the National Tourist Industries Agency (ENIT), it is expressly provided that this body can organize, promote and even market tourist services, foreshadowing a competition activity against companies in the sector, rather than a collaboration with them. Another failing of the decree is the failure to solve the problems created by Law No 97 of 2013 in relation to the category of tourist guides, due to the incorrect application of Directive No 123 of 2006 of the European Union (the Services Directive) to the profession of tourist guides instead of the Professional Qualifications Directive (Directive No 36 of 2005) to which this category should have been referred. It was not considered necessary to correct the incorrect intervention on a foretold case of possible EU infringement and directive, which should have been opposed because it was inapplicable, as admitted by the same Government which accepted numerous agendas on the subject, including the agenda of 9/1327/8, signed among others by Member Gozi, today Undersecretary for European policies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish. Cotti (M5S). Article 3 of Law No 97 of 2003 should have been corrected, which, by providing for the freedom to provide driving services throughout Italy by all the guides, has caused many problems for the sector. In the final analysis, the Government and the majority in issuing the decree and in its conversion have demonstrated superficiality and incompetence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u54	Madam President, in considering the aims and spirit of the decree-law in question, it seems necessary to look once again at the Constitution, not because today it is fashionable to refer to the Constitutional Charter, but to identify in the work of our constituent Fathers the values that preside over the essence and vitality of the Italian democratic Republic and founded on work. We must be proud, all of us Italians, of the singularity covered by our artistic, historical, architectural and landscape heritage, in being counted in our magna carte; unique case among the most evolved and illuminated Constitutions in the world. Italy was the first state on the planet to place the protection of the cultural heritage of the landscape not only in its own Constitution, but among the fundamental principles of the State. Salvatore Settis, a well-known scholar and expert in cultural heritage, in his essay entitled "Landscape Constitution concrete", recalls that the choice had nothing obvious and, in fact, Settis emphasizes that it was very opposed. The protection struggled to enter because of a misconceived foreignness of the matter and the valorization seemed far to come. From June 25, 1946 to December 22, 1947 (a year and a half), the issue was greatly debated. In the number of members of the Subcommittee responsible for drafting the text on our monuments, as was said at the time, there were names of considerable thickness, such as Aldo Moro, Giorgio La Pira, Lelio Basso and Concetto Marchesi. In Marchesi and Moro the task was to work and elaborate thesis on the future article 9 of the Constitution, the one that stipulates protection and valorization. In a year and a half of work - I would like to remind Premier Renzi - and certainly not with an arbitrarily imposed deadline, it passed from vague and rhetorical concepts such as the "monumentality of art" to the dry and exemplary diction of the aforementioned article 9: The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. Let us ask ourselves: does the decree-law we are dealing with refer fully to the spirit of the times, that is, it interprets the sentiments that today call for a decisive representation of our enormous and splendid artistic, demological, food and wine fields and biodiversity, of the historical, architectural and archaeological centers, without betraying the spirit of our fundamental Charter? Minister Franceschini's gaze on these areas - precious, jealously to be preserved, unrepeatable, spread throughout the national territory, universal - appears long, capable of intercepting current and new emergencies, old and new needs in the country. Finally, there is room for the intelligent presence of the role of private individuals in asset management. Unfortunately, it's a shy opening. We reaffirm - in accordance with the liberal programs and reformers of the fundamentals of Forza Italia (the code of cultural heritage signed Urbani is an example of this) - that the task of individuals must be intelligent, responsible, in line with mature times to entrust parts of our history in the hands of munifici cultori of beauty, of the exciting, of the susceptible of virtuous economy and generating incomes. And the term cultori stands for farmers, farmers of beauty, virtues, the healthy relationship between good and intrinsic values. The state trusts therefore in the maturity of its citizens, trust those who, daily, working and producing wealth and well-being for themselves and for others, contribute to the maintenance of our economy and to give a boost to our GDP. To this purpose it must be remembered the formidable flywheel of development that is inherent in the valorization of cultural goods. Several points of GDP can be recovered from the use of cultural heritage - which is now untenable and unmistakable. With the occasion constituted by Decree-Law No. 83 of 2014 it was expected that the Government had dared more, it had worked to put more financial resources and greater opportunities available to the sector, the industry and tourism sector, young professionals, knowledge and technologies for cultural goods, so that the breath of a new Copernican revolution upset the resignation of those who still think that art, culture and landscape are residual factors of the value Italy. The opposite is true. Today our heritage is an indispensable element of an effort that is slow to be realized and put in the yard by this Government, intended to give an acceleration to the active policies of work, production of excellence, the promotion of Made in Italy, the affirmation of a recognizable and indelible Italy brand in the world. Therefore, I renew the invitation to unify efforts and to work to implement synergies abroad, in the main capitals of the world, in the main foreign tourist markets aimed at promoting our tourism: a renewed ENIT, our embassies and our consulates, the offices of Alitalia, ANSA, ENI, Dante Alighieri, the Touring Club, the Italian institutes of culture abroad - for example - should have unified locations in the major metropolis, also to facilitate an immediate recognizability through the location in the Palazzo Italia of a kind of "Italia trade center" which, for the simple circumstance of existence, would already represent an emblem, an appeal. I mentioned first to the young people and their role in the matter. On their passions and their desire to bet by attending the university faculties of cultural heritage, MIBACT must make it an epochal bet. Bringing cultural assets to value, creating value for our economy from their use is a bet that can be won without getting entrenched in the narrowness of resources, in the inevitable scarcity of public finances, but going to bang the shoe in Europe to claim unprecedented polarity towards the cultural assets of the resources of programming 2014-2020. If we are to be virtuous and careful about spending in Brussels, let us, however, decide our destinies on matters that we have and from which we can, and indeed we must draw economic and employment benefits. Therefore, I urge Minister Franceschini to create educational and training paths on cultural heritage, to establish high schools for cultural heritage in which there is ample space for humanistic subjects, the history of art and fluently knowledge of languages. The museums, finally, are endowed with extraordinary figures of promoters and innovators to transform themselves almost into film sets, places capable of exciting, even with the help of information communication technology, that can tell the history and traditions and allow all the citizens of the world to travel through time through the use of the five senses. One last recommendation I would like to make to Minister Franceschini. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Liuzzi, I invite you to conclude. LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). In the reform of the organisation of the MIBACT - which we learn from inexplicably blocked press indiscretions by the President of the Council - it takes into account the important and driving role of the submissive for a new course of valorization and protection of our immense beauty. They are finally managers, open mentally and rigorously in preserving and preserving. Inform their work always and in any case to the two fundamental laws that have so far preserved and helped to deliver to us the heritage: the n.1089 of 1939 on the artistic goods and the n.1497 of 1939 on the landscape. Finally, in the territory, in the endless districts that make our homeland great and unique, the role of honorary inspectors is recognized and renewed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you once again to conclude. LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. Figure read, often solitary, legendary of the mastodontic work of typing, despite everything, for the beauty. The establishment of the decree that today is called for conversion, although it shows significant progress, finds a substantial dissatisfaction on the part of my Group. Speaking of which, here in the Senate, the government intends to put its trust... Please summarize your conclusion, Senator Liuzzi. LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). ...and this certainly does not benefit the fluidization of dialogue, it does not favor the free expression of the debate that could also generate opinions that go beyond belongings. Too bad! Our vote will follow, Minister. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Puglisi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u55	Senator Puglisi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u56	Madam President, Minister, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the great beauty of our country - everyone has said this - is the one we have never been able to capitalize on; it is part of that inefficiency of the politics and the bad governance of some territories for which we are paying a very high price in terms of lack of growth and employment. It's like putting money under the mattress instead of making it pay off by investing in a productive activity: after a few years you risk finding only dust. With culture you do not eat or, in the opposite direction (it was remembered before Senator Fattorini), the culture with capital C must be lost. They are the two sides of the same medal that prevented our country from taking off fully valorizing our artistic and archaeological heritage, but also the Italian genius, who goes to make beautiful cities of the world and instead abandons to the culture of the shopping center the outskirts of our cities. As if at this time this country had nothing to tell of itself to its great-grandchildren. The rhetoric about the immense dowry of monuments: we have 49 UNESCO sites, five percent of the world heritage and 11% of the European ones. We own the triple of the museums of France and more than twice as much as Spain; the libraries of France are just a quarter of the Italian ones, while Spain has about half of them. Despite this, due to an increase of 2.3 percent of foreign tourists arriving in our country in 2012, museums and cultural sites lose 4 million visitors. The five major state museums in London attract 26.5 million visitors a year: 73 percent of the total entrances of our 420 state institutions. Now, if some superintendent is offended because with this decree is inserted the possibility of flanking the superintendents themselves with a manager who knows how to raise the ticket, without prejudice, of course, to their important function of historical-scientific protection, we will make a reason for it. But beyond estimates, numbers and interpretations, the facts remain clear: before this legislature for too many years there has been a total absence of active investment policies, a subtraction of resources and the renunciation of effective protection and enhancement of our heritage. I listened carefully to Senator Giro's surgery. He is right: that of the Colosseum was a wrong controversy; we want to recognize it, but we also ask the right then to recognize that cutting 1.3 billion euros to culture from 2008 to 2012 was one of the worst choices, along with the 8 billion cuts made at the school. MIBACT's budget for the past ten years has lost 27 percent of its value. So, dear Minister, this decree is already a new beginning: the art bonus, i.e. the tax credit for individuals who intervene for the restoration of our monumental heritage, in maintenance, protection and restoration of public cultural heritage, museums, archaeological sites, public theatres and lyrical-symphonic foundations, is one of those promises that politics has been making for a long time but that it had never realized. Now even private individuals and companies no longer have alibis, if they want to restore some wealth to their territories and exercise their corporate social responsibility: not only will they be able to do so, in fact, but they will also gain a tax benefit. While here in the Senate we are about to approve the decree-Law Franceschini on 'artbonus, it has arrived like a icing on the cake also the plan of reorganization of the MIBACT. Finally, through a true revolution of the ministerial machine, the Government of cultural assets and activities and tourism loses that swampy and elephant patina, which has never allowed our country to see GDP take off, transforming the extraordinary monumental, artistic and landscape heritage, into an opportunity for development and employment. To date we have maintained the 400 state museums, which I mentioned earlier, as cases where we have been content to preserve and protect our artistic treasures. From now on, the renewal of management figures will allow us to transform these places of art and culture into living places and to promote our wealth. I am particularly pleased with the two new directions it has decided to set up, particularly the education and research direction. Previously, Senator Liuzzi also pointed out how important it is to make dialogue between the Ministry of Education and that of cultural goods and activities, because in a country where child educational poverty is dramatic we must return to educate the new generation to the enjoyment of music and beauty that Italy is rich in. One of the greatest waste of these years was in fact the lack of collaboration between Superintendence and university and scientific research. Finally, Minister Franceschini, you have finally foreseen another fundamental thing for our country, namely a new attention to contemporary arts and architecture and also to the valorization of urban suburbs: there is a rule on this issue also in the decree under consideration. The works of Italian creativity and ingenuity go to steal abroad: we therefore have the duty to leave to our great-grandchildren no more disgusting or eco-monsters, but new jewels in all sectors of culture and art. This reform, together with the change that will be foreseen for the new competences of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, is a real revolution and the Minister is right to claim it. This is a revolution in the management of cultural assets and activities, with a new synergy between culture and tourism, which was previously lacking. This can restart the development of our country, from a new paradigm. The apocalyptic time of the surface man has set, citing a beautiful article by Vittorino Andreoli. This may be the time when beauty will save the world, as Prince Myskin says in the Dostoevsky idiot. I do not know whether beauty will save the whole world, but if you continue to work this way, Minister - and, as the representatives of all the groups have said, this Parliament is available to work with you - beauty will certainly save Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u57	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u58	I call the rapporteur, Senator Di Giorgi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u59	Madam President, I believe that this has been a very rich and highly satisfying debate. It certainly has been so for the Minister, because many more ideas have been offered, after the debate we have already held in the Commission, and of course it has been so for me, that I have been able to verify a number of issues that I share with many of my colleagues. Opinions have been expressed, which for a long time have been in the minds of those involved in culture and who for a long time have also been in the hope of all of us, such as the fact that in Italy we can and must make an effort - and in particular that politics must do so - to consider the theme of culture as central. Of course, however, ladies and gentlemen, it must also be said that we certainly cannot ask this measure for what it is not. It is certainly not the only text of cultural heritage - compared to this, among other things, I think it is necessary to work on a text that can be so defined - so it is not in this measure that we can find a comprehensive and coherent structure that takes into account all the general issues. The text under consideration is therefore not a huge container. I believe, however, that we must grasp what has been well expressed here by many, namely the need for a reorder and for organic intervention. It is clear, Minister, that we will probably have to talk soon enough about the updating of our code of cultural goods, with the introduction of those innovative principles which are introduced here, in part, but which must certainly be organized in a more coherent and organic way within a general rule. Of course, we expect - and I think it is necessary - an approach that will enable us to move more and more competitively through the new principles that we want to reaffirm, so as to maintain the issue of protection, but in such a way as to move even more courageously from the point of view of valorization, according to what is rightly already foreseen within this measure. We probably have to make an effort on this, and that has also emerged a little from the speeches you have heard here, Minister. In some ways, perhaps the Ministry could accept a great challenge, thinking, for example, of putting hand within six months to a reorder of all those norms that obviously concern culture, but that are dispersed within measures of various kinds and that also cause some confusion, as well as many problems of an applicative nature that we have verified over time and that we continue to verify. Minister, you have recently assumed the responsibility of leading the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, but I believe that perhaps we could try to face together a challenge of this kind: six months of time to reorganize the legislation and this is possible today also given the existence of specialized software that already do all this, so it could be a commitment anything but impossible, indeed, highly practicable. I believe that a comparison is possible between everyone and I imagine that in an area of this nature majority and opposition would be absolutely united, precisely because we would have efficiency, clarity and transparency, being able to eliminate also a number of other measures that have accumulated over the years and that frankly no longer make sense and that perhaps, in some respects, are also strongly negative. In addition to this, of course, there are also the needs related to the theme of cultural activities of entertainment, cinema and so on: it was not today's theme - if not in a hope - but many colleagues have also spoken about the problems of this sector. As we said in the Commission - we discussed this with the President and we had the opportunity to discuss this idea with the Minister - we are ready to work on a new law on cinema and entertainment, because that is what we need. We must therefore try to move in an organic way on the basis of certain principles and principles which have become common thinking, which certainly lie in the approach and policies of this Government and which we can clearly only develop in a certain direction. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that from your speeches and the rich debate that has taken place in this House, we can really seize so many good opportunities. I take all the comments that have been made - particularly by Senators Serra, Blund, Bertorotta and Senator Airola - because it is clear that they are analyses that can be shared. It is clear that we cannot do everything in this measure, and there is one thing I want to stress. We are talking about a timid intervention, although I believe that from this point of view the answers have been given, both for the resources and for the lack of funds and for all the reasons that I have already tried to point out in my report. Of course, however, there is one issue which I do not agree with and which relates to the question of private intervention. An ancient culture has greatly harmed our country, a culture - my culture, which is a culture of the left and which was well mentioned before by Senator Fattorini and perhaps also by Senator Puglisi - which says that the private, in some way, must keep away from culture and how much investment in culture can be. In other words, there would be a sort of de-responsibility of the State if even the private investor invests in culture; therefore, only the State must be the investor. With this decree-law the State invests because, when you give a tax credit, there is obviously an investment. We have to consider another concept, that is, that they come from the private, that they reset even better and with greater openness the theme of patronage or, in any case, of donations and bestowals. Of course, if you can make it profitable or give an advantage to those who then make these donations, well come. Of course, if he had done 20, it would have been better than doing 15. I agree, in fact, that if you did 30, it would be even better. In the meantime, let's take this 15. That's kind of the point. Therefore, it is clear that there is an agreement on the content in principle; we are constantly debating this in the Commission too, but then we have to find solutions and in this decree-law some of these solutions are there. Let's see it for what it is. It is a decree-law that deals with certain emergencies, such as, for example, Pompeii, Caserta and - again - foundations. Senator Giro may or may not like it (which is not there now). Of course. However, there are emergencies the foundations, which have an ancient and even ugly history, a history of collective dereliction - this is what it is - because they are also the result of the culture of "so much then someone who pays there". So, many directors and important artists have practiced spending and doing pharaonic projects, because so much someone for one work, or for another, would have covered the holes that would inevitably have been created. Of course, it was a non-positive culture, which has produced so much damage, so many assumptions and perhaps useless investments, so many harmful ones. All this is true, but I think it is important to reorder that we did in the decree "culture value." It is a reorder that can produce a new life and a new setting, trying not to make corpses, however not to leave too many on the ground. These, of course, cannot be the workers, those who have been hired. We cannot throw away the enormous artistic, artisan skills which, within those foundations and their laboratories, are, live and also represent an important piece of our culture, but we must certainly get our hands on them. I was like, "Emergencies." In this decree-law we are still talking about foundations because they are still an emergency. Let us try to help them to recover, this time, by taking responsibility and asking a great deal in their new management plans. That is what we have to ask for. As we have said - and with this end - it is a decree-law that introduces important elements of innovation: first, the tax credit for cinema, cultural goods and accommodation facilities. A number of colleagues have spoken about tourism. The concept of this marriage is to be valued in some way and is the theme of this decree-law. It is reiterated that private intervention is right that there is and is well received and that, both in culture and of course in tourism, strong added values can be produced in the economy of our country that can really be - as we have said and as all of you have said - the pillars of the relaunch of our country, according to this new approach. To do this it takes so much investment and it is here that the need for a simple passage: if we activate investments, we activate a virtuous circle. It is on this virtuous activation that we must work with courage and try to move from these ancient settings. It is necessary to create wealth through the valorization of cultural assets and activities, to then invest in the same assets. And it is not a blasphemy, if you earn enough, if so many tourists go to a great place of our culture, if someone manages to manage books shops that are not only made available to private individuals but are also managed by the public, of course through ways that here is not the case to introduce. (The sitting was suspended at 16.09 p.m.) (Rapporteur: Mrs Di Giorgi). They are managed and somehow return, as to proceeds, in the investment of the same structure, of the same cultural place or of the same museum. All this allows us to graft a virtuous circle and, for this reason, we must use all the tools, all the technologies, but also all the imagination available. This will create work - you said well -, a lot of work and new jobs. The Minister explained this to us in the Commission and I believe he will repeat it again now: he wants to make available to young people, to those we want, to those who are, so much, part of that closed and unused heritage kept with locks, because no one has the opportunity to use it because we Ministry, we State keep close what we have and we do not care about the use. So let's invent new formulas: they will be young people to restructure some environments and open these places. We must give air, we must try to open ourselves to new ideas and to everything we can do to reset all our reality, which is so rich, but which often still gives too few opportunities in so many places in our Italy. Senator Stefani said that we always talk about the South: Naples, the palace of Caserta, Pompeii. I know, they're some old-fashioned places. We know that in Italy there are many places and places of culture and we know that we must value them all, but the State alone can never do it. Who's he supposed to do that with? With your employees? We're not hiring anyone anymore. Therefore, a fruitful relationship between the public and the private must be activated. Some people talked about social volunteering: very well, many places are opened thanks to social volunteering. Many local authorities have done so, but also many ministerial structures in the various territories have activated planning thanks to which many people regain a role in their lives, a social role, that of accompanying someone inside a large garden or inside a museum. If we do not succeed, we activate all this, but we also activate work and give the opportunity to many young people who have ideas in the culture to invent something, to invent cultural professions. We need to breathe. We need to try to open up. This seems to me to be the philosophy behind this decree, as far as the issues it deals with are concerned. It is clear that there can be maximum sharing in this. I am a little sorry, also for the work we have done as rapporteurs; I would be pleased that there was no opposition on this measure, Senator Liuzzi, because we have shared so many things and we are in tune with many aspects. The House, thinking that it wants to invest in this perspective, has decided to give confidence in this respect to the Government and the action that the Minister is carrying out with all the difficulties related to the budget and everything we know. I am sorry that in this case too we cannot reach a willingness on the part of the opposition, a willingness which, at least until now, on the basis of the statements made so far, has not been there. In the explanations of vote, however, we may have a nice surprise. It may be that things may change after the discussion that has taken place. Finally, Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to present an agenda here. I have already said this morning that many agendas have been accepted in the Commission, so we have already done a great deal of work. For the House, I would like to present one in particular, the G12,100 agenda, which concerns copyright in relation to the reproduction of rare and ancient texts; a very sensitive subject in the world of scholars, which had been asked to deal with in the House as well. What I would like to propose as rapporteur is a commitment for the Government to promote the implementation of projects to digitize ancient and rare texts, whose consultation is very expensive, so much so that many research stops precisely because it is costly. The Government is therefore asked to support the implementation of projects to digitize the ancient and rare texts kept in the Institutes of Culture and, in general, of all those bibliographical and archival goods not subject to the law on copyright and the law on privacy, so that they can be made available to scholars, students and users. At the same time, while waiting for digitalization projects to be completed, the Government undertakes to provide for the introduction of appropriate administrative and organisational measures, within the limits of budget availability, aimed at facilitating, facilitating and simplifying the public use of these goods, especially by scholars and students. Finally, a request from me to the Minister on the basis of a debate in the Commission. Among the agendas presented for the Chamber, there is one relating to contemporary classical music. We know that this is an area that needs to be supported. On the basis of our ancient tradition, many young people want to write classical music; this is part of contemporary classical music. It is therefore requested to support festivals, festivals and courses for young musicians. This is part of that line that aims to expand the musical activity in Italy, a theme dear to Senator Ferrara. The commitment to the Government, in this case, concerns the possibility of creating an ad hoc fund that guarantees start-up support for the most significant initiatives and therefore to allocate a share of the Single Fund for the show for activities of dissemination of contemporary classical music. This is a vulnus: it doesn't exist! Using this opportunity, we would like this issue to rise to the importance it deserves. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that in the explanations of vote there will also be a statement of the great commitment that the Minister and the Government have put into this measure and also of the sharing that has taken place on various occasions, particularly within the Commission and in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u60	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u61	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the whole general debate and I should like to thank all the Groups, both majority and opposition, for, in different tones and nuances, they have all made a constructive contribution, as had already been done in the House. I am well aware that this House is currently in a very strong and tough political confrontation and will probably come back to it in a few hours' time. However, I welcome the fact that in this climate we have tried to overcome the divisions on a subject on which there should not be, that is, the valorisation of what we have in our country. Similarly, there should not be divisions in a collective assumption of responsibility for the things that we have not all done in the past years because, of course to a different extent (this belongs to the political debate), there is no doubt that Italian politics has not been able to invest as it should and how it could do in the most formidable resource that it can have for economic growth, for development, for the growth of individual people but also for the exit from the crisis and the growth of our economy. I am referring to what will make us more competitive in the century of globalization, that is, our beauty, our history, our monumental goods, our creativity, the intelligence of our young generations that unfortunately cannot use it in our country. I really enjoyed the cut in this debate and also the criticism. Moreover, the measure comes from a very important work done in the House. This time the decree-law began its journey to the House; as you will recall, the decree-law Bray on the same subject had begun its journey to the Senate, so it is up to the Senate to receive the measure under consideration at the end of the 60-day journey and without more time available. However, in the House, the Groups - from what I know in a sufficiently close connection with their respective Senate parliamentary groups - have really done a job of improving the very important text, both in the Commission and in this House. This led to a positive result: the measure was approved in the House without any votes against, all oppositions abstained recognizing that the debate had brought substantial improvements. I really believe that it would be important, even in the physiology of confrontation and political debate, for awareness to be gained of the centrality of the sector of culture and tourism as a driving force for our growth. Obviously the measure under consideration is a decree-law and therefore by its nature contains urgent measures. As the rapporteur has said (which I thank, together with the 7th Senate Commission and its President, for the work he has done), is not an organic bill of reform in the sector; it cannot be there by nature within a decree-law that contains urgent measures that must have an immediate impact, but must (this is the work I myself have tried to do) be consistent with a plan that is structured on various levels: the urgent measures in the decree-law, the reorganization of the Ministry, instead, in a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. At the same time, this work must be the first step in the direction of a much broader plan that we will - I am convinced of this - make a real comparison with Parliament, that is, a comprehensive redesign of the sector of culture and tourism, especially after integration, which has finally been in operation by law for a few months, within the Ministry itself. I am not going to go too far because the measure has been extensively explained by the rapporteur, but I would like to state its principles. The decree-law tries to break two barriers. In our country we are specialists in producing barriers and imprisoning ourselves in a debate that assumes an ideological or late ideological character even on issues on which reasoning can easily find, with the way of common sense, an understanding. The first is the public-private relationship. We have been through a long debate for which positions have been caricatured: a part has been caricatured as if it thought that cultural goods are sacred, they cannot even be touched by the hand of the private because sacredness would be violated; on the other hand - another caricature - who thought that, entrusting cultural goods to the private, it would be born who knows what wonder and who knows what advantage for the economy and for the protection of the goods themselves. Of course, that is not the case. They're caricatures. It is clear that with the vastness of our heritage a much stronger intervention is indispensable than we do now for the protection of our archaeological, historical, monumental and landscape heritage. We complain when the emergency occurs or we accuse each other when a traumatic event happens. Unfortunately, however, there is a need for resources because, fortunately, we have such a vast heritage. And public resources can never be replaced by private ones. We're talking about integration here. But what's wrong with that? I speak here for those who imagined that, not new sponsorships, but even acts of liberality, donations and patronage were a violation of that sacredness. But how do you refuse them? And yet, it happened. To a private individual, both to a company and to a citizen, who wants, with an act of liberality, to make available resources to recover a piece of our historical and archaeological heritage as can be said not? So let us break this barrier and deal with it with common sense. The protection belongs to the public, the resources must be public but any help from the private goes in the direction of the protection of goods that UNESCO calls of humanity, and not of the State, of the Region, of the private or of the Church. They are goods of humanity by nature, so it is logical for everyone to make a contribution. The second barrier that I think must be broken is this other caricature of two sides (we are always like Guelphs and Ghibellines) between those who think that the duty of the public is only the protection of the heritage and those who think, instead, that the duty of the public is the valorization of the heritage at any cost. But why contrast the two aspects? Where is it written? Article 9 of the Constitution, in the first paragraph, speaks of the promotion of culture while in the second paragraph it speaks of the protection of culture (as has been recalled, our constituent fathers had a long view). But then I wonder why they should be included in what is more a debate by those involved and in this climate of opposition. We must strengthen protection as much as possible because it is a constitutional obligation; this must be done in a modern, effective, non-retorative, intelligent way and is in no way contrary to the enhancement of goods. Why is that? In the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which is the continuation of this decree, an act is carried out, which in part is carried out in this decree with some many important norms: one tries to distinguish, knowing that in our country the museums, more than in any other country, are the expression of the territory. The works of art continue to remain connected to the territory even when they are in a museum, because they are mainly regional and local collections, not large national museums built at the table, as in the history of other countries. But will it not be logical to imagine that the Superintendences increasingly devote themselves to the protection of the territory, greatly strengthening the link with training and research? Our Superintendence, in fact, is an extraordinary place to offer students of cultural heritage, archaeology and art history the place to experience on the field. On the other hand, it would be very useful for the Superintendence to have students, researchers, innovation and freshness. The Superintendences must further specialise their natural vocation on protection, strengthening the link with universities and CNR (we have already held several meetings with Minister Giannini and CNR president) and imagining a model like that of university hospitals. It seems a fairly simple concept but, where there is a medical faculty and next to a hospital, these have been integrated for many decades. And university clinics are exactly the place for the meeting of field experience, study and research. We have this formidable heritage of Superintendence. Is it not logical to link them as a permanent place to the faculties of conservation of cultural heritage, archaeology and the many CNR research centres on cultural heritage? At the same time, valorisation must be inserted in a different vein, so in particular the management of museums (which, as has been mentioned, are some thousands, of which 420 only of the State) also becomes an economic issue, not at all contrary to the need for protection. We seek a new form, giving greater autonomy, rewarding the virtuous museums, putting to direct the museums people who have a specific formation (a rule of the decree-law, inserted in the conversion to the House, opens the way to this perspective). I do not think of managers who have dealt with iron rods or construction, but of art historians, archaeologists, architects who have mastered training for the management of museums, who have directed other museums in the world and who, having a scientific basis, can bring a managerial culture capable of running our museums. Until a few months ago - and this is something that I could correct as soon as I arrived at the Ministry because I had a help in the Bray decree - there was a mechanism for which it was absolutely indifferent that a single museum (not the large ones that have their autonomy) sold 5,000 or 10,000 tickets because the proceeds did not even see them, went directly to the unique cauldron of the Ministry of Economics. A mechanism devoid of all virtuosity. Now, every three months, we transfer to the museum the exact amount of tickets he has sold and maybe this sets in motion a virtuous mechanism; the same if he rents the rooms, if he has a bookshop that works. Why do we have to see things in contrast when we have an extraordinary opportunity to value them? All of us in the debate have mentioned the Louvre, a model not importable in Italy being a great national museum, twelve times larger than the Uffizi, since Italy also in this field is the ground of the great museums spread. But what does the Louvre do if it does not achieve protection, research, training and marketing together? The Louvre sells 10 million tickets a year and the resources it uses to do research and protection. I think that the decree, starting with the rules relating to the bonus up to those relating to the management of museums, can help to break this mechanism. Since I have heard too many times, even before this experience, Italian entrepreneurs, small and large Italian companies, especially the big ones, say 'I would like to give resources to culture, but there is no adequate tax incentive', from this House today I want to say very clearly that there are no more alibis: we have a tax incentive of 65% tax credit. He's the first in Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There's no limit. The private individual or the company that gives 100 euros or 10 million euros will have immediately, because they do not even need the implementing decrees, a tax credit of 65% in three years. By the way, the eco bonus is spread over 10 years. There are no more alibis, the doors are open, there are no barriers. But now if some great enterprise did not come to tie his name to the recovery of a piece of that patrimony of humanity that our country has the fortune to have, then we could say: "it was just words, they were only alibi." There are many possible interventions: from a small abbey in the countryside to Domus Aurea, of which with 30 million euros we would complete the plan above giving the world one of the most beautiful works in the center of Rome, whose works fail to end due to lack of resources. There are many other interventions on tourism. Here, too, we have tried to break with the past by introducing incentives for the digitisation of tourism businesses and the renewal of hotel structures; improved standards for conversion. We introduced the tax credit of cinema, which contributes, with the new roofs, to recall films of international production, finally having a higher tax incentive. Then there are new measures for opera. I'll take a few minutes on that. Here we worked in line with the Bray decree, which imagined that only two lyrical-symphonic foundations would apply. They applied in eight and the recovery plans were submitted. It was essential to have these 50 million extra revolving funds (which as a revolving fund is a loan) because the Commissioner called to verify the recovery plans faces some difficulties. In fact, if a lyrical-symphony foundation presents a recovery plan of 20 million and according to the previous funding it has only 10, but the foundation has certified that you save only if you get 20, there is some problem giving it 10, if with those you do not save. These 50 million revolving fund allow to definitively close the path of lyrical-symphonic foundations in crisis. There is, however, a problem raised by a number of speakers. We must all come out together from a mechanism whereby those who manage badly, because they manage something important that cannot be renounced, like a lyrical-symphonic foundation, is helped and saved; instead, those who manage well and virtuously are not helped in the same way. This mechanism must be reversed and the changes to the Bray decree point precisely to this - I address in particular to the 5 Star Movement that raised the theme - that is to increase the criteria for access to credit, and therefore the number of lyrical-symphonic foundations that can aspire to greater forms of autonomy by accessing it to conditions of virtuosity. It is precisely the road that we must call for and which applies to many sectors. Then there are emergency measures. Compared to Pompeii, the rule has been greatly improved in the House; there is an agenda that we would have accepted, if the parliamentary path had been different, and which commits even more to transparency. There are measurements for the Palace of Caserta. There is the Commission of ENIT to have a different departure on tourism that to some extent involves the Regions anticipating Title V and putting an end to the custom, now entrepreneurial, so in the large windows and large fairs of the world there are the stands of the individual Regions, one next to the other, when Italy is already too small to appear on the international market. We have the stands of the individual regions that spend and compete without the representation of a country system that is sold as such. There are rules on decorum. There are important norms, also these improved, on staff, that allow to introduce a first recognition of the specialty of cultural goods, so they can be hired in the field of cultural goods, by way of derogation from the roofs of the public administration, archaeologists and art historians, to enrich and rejuvenate this Ministry that has an average age of about 58 years (understand that it is complicated). It is a fixed-term intake for a year, but it is a first recognition of specialties. The age for candidates was raised to 40 years; the initial rule provided for 29 years, but it was rightly pointed out that today there are many, unfortunately, unemployed people who are well over 29 years old. Further improvements have been introduced in the parliamentary path. Amendments have been accepted for oppositions concerning a very positive idea of start-ups for tourism businesses. The 2019 programme has also been approved for cities that contribute to the recognition of European Capital of Culture, with the introduction of a novelty that I consider to be the harbinger of many virtuosities, i.e. the birth of the Italian Capital of Culture. The positive effects of the competition for the European capital of culture are not reflected only on the city that wins, because the competition forces all competing cities to set in motion a unified design mechanism on entire historical centers, which however, at least in part, is realized and forces an overall vision. We are the country of the hundred cities, villages, small municipalities, of widespread beauty; the fact of predicting every year - as happened thanks to the approval of a parliamentary amendment - that an Italian city, which aspires to become Italian capital of culture, sets in motion a competitive and virtuous mechanism, will push to have unitary planning and not only for the cities (I also think of the small and beautiful Italian villages). In short, the work that has been done is positive and I thank Parliament. There are many agendas. As you know, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide that we do not move to the vote on the agenda in the event of the issue of trust, but I would like to say very explicitly that those approved by the Commission are considered to be accepted by the Government. There are a number of others (I only take them in part) which, in my opinion, are acceptable and which are still valid as a commitment. I quote them quickly: there is the rapporteur's agenda on the reproduction of books. Then there is an agenda of the Mixed Left Group Ecology and Freedom on contemporary art. It has been recalled that we are going towards a new general direction for contemporary art and architecture, which starts from the idea that it is important to enhance our heritage, the one that the previous generations have left us, but this idea is not in contrast with the enhancement of that extraordinary heritage of young talents and great masters in art, architecture and contemporary music, which are sectors we should invest in. I also dealt with jazz and was told it was a niche phenomenon. Italian jazz is the largest jazz at European level: one third of all live music shows a year are jazz shows. I don't think it's a niche phenomenon. We are full, in all fields, of talents that very often, despite our cultural heritage, do not find their way into our country, young Italian graduates who become famous abroad, when they must not be reduced to being waiters in London or Paris. The agendas of the day on the centenary of the First World War, the 2019 Program, the recognition of the Green Festival are also acceptable. Condivisible are the agendas of the day on young artists in galleries, signed by Senator Buemi, and on contemporary music, signed by Senator Martini. Then there is the agenda, which has been so discussed so early, on carnivals (the subject of a rule of the Bray decree) that they can have the recognition, without any need for legislative changes, within the framework of the new interdisciplinary fund, by the FUS. The same goes for the agendas on families and disabled people, the promotion of holiday vouchers, on-line tourist agencies, on the famous subject of the revision of state concessions, so the Presidency will also be a place to talk about the Bolkestein directive at European level, and on the completion of the route of tourist guides because in the decree we only have an extension of the deadline that will allow to identify sites that require guides with a specialization. I really believe that there is room on this ground and I do not say it now, because I personally lead this Ministry, but it is a conviction that I have for some time because over the years, playing other roles, I have always looked with some suffering at the fact that the country system did not invest in this field. I think there's a lot to do. A lot of numbers have been remembered and I think complaining counts little. I say only two; in 2000 my Ministry's budget marked 0.39 of the state budget, in 2014 0.19, less than half. The various funds, including the lot's fund and those with which few things are done, were 60 million in 2007, now 24 million. The public works fund in 2007 was 148 million, now 151 million. Chapter 1321, which allows for various interventions, was 79 million, now is 8. We've been cutting for years. The last two governments have stopped the season of cuts; we are on the eve of the law of stability, Parliament is sovereign, the Government will play its part, and it is time to make an investment, if it is true, as has emerged throughout the debate, that this is a driving force. We're in crisis. Yeah, we're in the crisis. Every time I hear about the crisis, I can think of the beautiful words with which Winston Churchill responded to the generals who at the beginning of the Second World War had proposed to him to cut culture to finance the war effort. Churchill looked at them, with that smile of his, and said, "So what are we fighting for?" I wish then that was our awareness. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, PI, SCPI and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u62	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the single article of draft law No 1563, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 83, 31 May 2014, with the amendments already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, without further amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u64	The Presidency takes note of the issue of trust. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4.42 p.m. and resumed at 5.06 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u65	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust placed by the Government on the decree-law culture and tourism, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. One hour has been allocated to the debate on confidence and explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 7.30 p.m. Finally, the Conference of Leaders agreed unanimously to resume the examination of the draft Constitutional Reform Act tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. I ask the Groups to indicate the senators enrolled in the general discussion on trust that have not yet been reported.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u66	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have confidence in the conversion of this Decree-Law No 83. This is an important decree-law, which contains urgent provisions for the protection of cultural heritage, the development of culture and the revival of tourism. Although it is true that Italy is the country with the most interesting and intense historical and cultural heritage in the world, and if every city and every place we move every day is a hymn to creativity and beauty, it is at the same time true that this beauty is sometimes not cared for, neglected and - I would say - left in the abandonment. Pompeii's collapses, the streetwalkers under our most important monuments (an example for all is the situation under the Colosseum), the chronic lack of funds for restoration and enhancement that also reminded us of the Minister just now, create a bustle between the undisputed and unique charm of our villages, our monuments and our archaeological heritage and their conservation and valorization. This decree-law introduces a series of measures - we heard this morning - to recover this beauty and allocate resources for the tax credit, for those who make liberal payments in money for interventions in the field of culture and entertainment, for the annual strategic plan called "Great cultural assets" projects, for the refinancing of the fund "Thousand young people for culture" (destined for the promotion of traineeships in the fields of activities and services for culture), or for the possibility of insertion, through fixed-term employment contracts, of professionals under the age of 40, for the improvement and enhancement of interventions of protection on cultural goods. It gives back dignity to public monuments, giving the territorial offices of the Ministry and the municipalities the review of public land permits and concessions, with the possibility to derogate and simplify both the regional provisions governing the operation of trade in public areas, as well as the criteria for the granting and renewal of the concession of parking spaces for trade in public areas. In short, there is the possibility, with this decree, to restore dignity to historical places today become open-air markets. The procedures to facilitate the restructuring and safety of excavations in Pompeii and beyond are simplified, as well as bureaucratic procedures in order to promote tourism entrepreneurship. Having said that, I should like in particular to highlight some simplification measures which are not so obvious and not as important as other, certainly more significant, arguments have appeared. These are those provided for in article 11, paragraph 3, with which, following the intuition that there is a sector that can be developed, it is allowed to grant free use of public buildings not used for institutional purposes (the cantoniere houses, tollgates, railway or maritime stations, fortifications, abandoned lighthouses) for the promotion of pedestrian, cycling, equestrian, motorbike, river and railway routes. The concessions, according to the regulatory dictation, can be awarded up to nine years (renewable for another nine) to enterprises and other forms of association, constituted mainly by subjects up to 40 years, through procedure of public evidence. On this very important issue of the recovery and re-use of the enormous railway heritage, I have presented in the Commission public works and transport, together with the industry associations and my colleagues senators of the PD, a bill, which, moving from the concrete fact that in every country or city in Italy there is a huge heritage, even historical (as can be precisely the stations or the railway sections that are not now used), has the aim of promoting a reintegration and re-use of the same in a network of sweet mobility, building a renewed plot of integrated transport systems cycling, equestrian and with historical trains; a network that can reuse existing structures, but unused, to connect the beauties of our landscapes and can be at the same time fly of sustainable tourism. The experiences in Europe of this type of tourism are many, as in Belgium, where, through the creation of an autonomous network of roads, 1,000 kilometres of tourist routes have been built, of which 300 kilometres using abandoned railway lines. Or in Spain, with the development of green roads, where over 1,200 kilometers of lines in disuse have been converted into green way, while recovering the former railway buildings for the installation of services and equipment available to the users of these routes, as is also expected in this decree. Or even in England, where there are many experiences of historical trains and a tourism in which an atmosphere of a journey is recreated that goes a little back in time: a journey back in time that would be very difficult to realize today in Italy, given the difficulty in the circulation that they are facing the few experiences of historical trains, kept alive in many cases only by the work of volunteers. In fact it would be important to allow a simplification in the field of railway safety, through a different regulation of locomotion for tourist and historical purposes from that for normal transport use, given the different purposes and use. This deregulation is a simplification of common sense, which I ask the Government to consider in a next measure. This would allow for greater development of this type of tourism and bring us into line with European standards in this area. In many European and non-European countries, the tourist railways are a not negligible sector of economic development, whose global turnover is measured in more than 500 million euros and the tourist movement in millions of constantly growing travellers. The Government has partially understood the potential of this area and I thank him because he has allowed a new life, thanks to the measures provided for by the decree, to stations, cantoniere houses, railway tollgates, for tourist purposes, an important first step that I emphasize. In conclusion, I thank the Government, also because with this decree, although with extraordinary measures, as is precisely that of the decree of urgency, places at the center of the attention of all the political debate the importance that the rebirth of wonder has, something I would say not a little. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u68	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u69	Madam President, here is the first point: why trust? Why put trust in such a decree? What rationality is there in organizing the work in this way? This decree was published on 31 May, it was approved by the House of Deputies on 9 July, sent on 11 July, and so we reach the deadline, despite the fact that there has been good will to have a proper debate in this House and a careful assessment of the amendments. Now, what kind of confidence can a government demand that, on such an important subject, is unable to organize itself in such a way as to give to what is however an urgent decree a breath and, while having 60 days of time, is not able to guarantee both Chambers the possibility of working properly? What kind of confidence can be given when we want synergies, a great breath, a broad vision, on a subject like this, which I referred to earlier in my speech. What kind of confidence can be given when it comes to extremely sophisticated content such as new technologies, which, however, are not merely a technical fact, but a tool that must have knowledge behind it, the construction of a network of skills? We know very well that the new technologies become only an alibi, they are nothing more than a shell within which, if there is no adequate content, there will certainly not be even a result. We are talking about these new workers, this national civil service, the use of fixed-term contracts. What kind of confidence can we have about the fact that this may be a formative antechamber of the new professionalisms that will consolidate or not become rather yet another army of precarious? The reorder provided for in article 16, in which is previewed the entry of the ENIT, with which we still have to understand how this triennial convection will be constructed, with contents all to define, while the liquidation of Promuovi Italia SpA is arranged and are quoted Italia Lavoro SpA and Invitalia SpA, in a crowd of structures on which everything is still to be seen. We would have liked that on such an important subject, on what is defined as a deposit of something far more precious than oil for our country, there would be a broad discussion, that there would be the possibility to avoid getting to what we are now used to, that is to the demand for trust. A demand for confidence that shows all the weakness of an executive who is proceeding in this as well as in other even more important issues, that is, the hardware of our democracy, always putting himself as in an arm wrestling. It is clear that all the reflections that have been reduced to agendas and other reflections, such as those I formulated before in the general discussion, can only find that minimum, or that maximum of space, according to who will obviously propose them, within the decisions of a Government that thus demonstrates that it is neither capable nor willing to build, on such important issues, a future perspective that is not linked to the vitality of a single Government, but that can be collected by those who tomorrow could be in the place of this majority. It is precisely on these issues (that of competitiveness last week, that of cultural heritage, the protection of heritage and tourism this week) that we should avoid reaching this arm of iron and lay the foundations for a synergy between all those who are really interested in the fact that this country changes step. I hope that that provocation which I made with the request in both my amendments for a different relationship in the authorization procedures and for the establishment of the Green Festival, intended as a way to heal a wound present in Law No 238 of 2012, which forgets the great musician, can be gathered in the future, even if, to be honest, the confidence that there can be a collection of the deepest and best-senseed instances comes less and less. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u70	Madam President, first of all I would like to inform the House that, once and for all, I am a Leader and Senator Centinario and I am speaking mainly as a person who has been working for years in the field of tourism, who knows him well and has to do with colleagues who live the daily life of this sector on their own skin, have invested, believe in it and in this decree-law had invested and hoped for something different. First of all, I would like to make a point and mine is not an objection I make to the government, but to politics as a whole, from those who occupy the highest office to the last. For once, politics should apologise to a tourism sector. It should do so because in the electoral campaign we all always fill our mouths by saying that tourism is our priority, tourism for Italy is like oil, tourism will be treated in the best way, vivava tourism, vivava tourism; however, once we take the votes, then tourism is no longer spoken and who has seen it. Well, we were hoping that the decree-law would not be a confirmation of what I have said so far, but once again we have seen that there has been very little talk of tourism. There was little talk about it in the speeches; on this subject the Minister spoke (I timed it) less than a minute, while on everything else it was a warm and important intervention on culture, on proposals that could be carried forward, on the world of culture and on the ideas that one has to value it. Unfortunately, nothing has been said about tourism. However, as far as the culture sector is concerned, we also ask ourselves some important questions. As we said also during the question time, during which we had discussed with the Minister, applause goes to the proposal to let the private individuals in so that they can restore the monumental and archaeological assets that we have and that they can manage them. Given that there is a lot of talk about Pompeii in the decree, one question arises spontaneously: we have EUR 105 million coming from the European Union and we do not know how to use them. We can't handle them and we're risking losing them. If I were a private person with money, when I deal with a state that is unable to manage the funds coming from the European Union, inefficient and incapable because I have to make my money available? On the way back to tourism, we would have liked it, I say it to the Minister but also to the majority, - to be able to talk to us and discuss it better on this subject. We would have liked it because we have set up a task force in this area as a North League in view of the vote and debate in this House; a task force that has engaged 32 people, industry experts, living in the tourism sector, who have given us proposals, ideas and assessments that we have made available to the House with amendments. Unfortunately, I have to tell these 32 people that they are listening to us that all this work will not come if you do anything about it. It's been wasted. We have invested time to speak with a majority and with a Ministry and with those who have preferred, like the President-in-Office of the Council, to deal with something else and to put the question of trust in order not to want and to be able to talk about everything we have discussed this week. Let me explain better: we talked about travel agencies and the problems that travel agents are experiencing in a challenging historical moment, especially given by the economic crisis. We talked about abuse in the tourism sector, a beast very difficult to eradicate, because of the Internet and people who invent travel agents without titles, creating groups accompanying them, and then there are accidents, as in the province of Avellino last year. Today, as today, a parish priest can become a travel agent and create tourist packages. We are in a heavy moment for abusing. And the tourist guides who, as the Minister also mentioned, are experiencing this in a heavy way, are having great problems at this historic moment and are asking us to intervene. We would have liked to tackle in a more structured way the problem of ENIT, not to be commissioner but to be closed, precisely because of the disasters we have had so far and because of the lack of results. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is a shack that has thrown away millions and millions of euros in staff expenses, in crazy locations placed in sites of excellence, but where the valorization and promotion of the tourism of Italy abroad has never been done. We would have liked to talk about the proposal to create a register of travel agents, who are asking for agents, especially those with professionalism. The liberalisation of agency licensing has created a world of unskilled travel agents. Those who have powers of this kind are clamoring for recognition. Untreated important proposals on which the Government decides to put the question of trust and to discuss in a very short time because, unfortunately, once again for this Government as for the previous ones (also for the Berlusconi Government, of which we were part), the tourism and culture topics are series B; topics to be dealt with on Monday at the speed of light because the priorities are constitutional reforms, for which we ask haste, to move, because they are the priority. The message I want to pass on to fellow travel agents and fellow tour operators, who will listen to us in the near future - I will give them this speech - is that once again we have been abandoned. Once again, the priorities of this country are others. Once again we prefer to talk about things that are not concrete rather than the concrete issues of a sector in crisis that is demanding to be heard. Prime Minister Renzi sent a beautiful letter to his colleagues in the majority who wrote that we must be united at this difficult time against those who obstruct. Well, in the letter that we send to travel agents we ask to be united at a time when this Government too has forgotten about us; a letter addressed to colleagues in the tourism sector asking to be united because this Government also prefers to talk about something else. This government, in a time of crisis, prefers to treat constitutional reforms rather than confront us on our serious and non-obstructional proposals. Finally, I would like to remind Minister Franceschini of one of his words during his inauguration: he said that he had been called to lead the most important Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Government. If the most important Ministry of Economic Affairs of this Government is given half a day of time and confidence to deal with the only measure that comes to the attention of the Commission and the House, we are really wrong. There is to put your hands in the hair in front of a government that treats its most important economic ministry in this way. Tomorrow with constitutional reforms, given the lack of interest on the part of all, including the Minister. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u71	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u72	Madam President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as the Budget Committee, I will do some of the servants' accounts. As usual, confidence is placed on the maxi amendment, which contains the text that came out of the Commissions. I will refer to the text that came out of the Commissions because it was not able, for a very fast time, to verify all the points of the maxi amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u73	Trust was placed on the text transmitted by the House. The Senate hasn't changed it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u74	BULGARRELLI (M5S). You're right, ma'am. However, it is the same text that came out of our Commissions. Thank you for the clarification. For those who do not know, the 5th Commission gives a cover opinion on the decrees. You know very well that a rule has been included in the Constitution for which every measure must have an economic cover, and the 5th Commission checks its existence. How do you do that? He gives an opinion that, if not obstructive, allows the continuation of the iter, otherwise something must be added to the decree. In this case the Budget Committee gave a non-observatory opinion, but made a number of comments which go against the opinion expressed. In Article 1, the Budget Commission states that the administration of public accounts is not properly taken; in paragraph 7, it states that the provision of a safeguard clause would have been preferable in order to avoid the risk of discovery of resources. In Article 5, there is an allocation inconsistent with the charges of correct economic planning and in any case, in general, the clause of financial neutrality in paragraph 7 does not seem to be enough constraint to avoid negative effects. In Article 6, paragraph 1-a, and Article 7, paragraphs 3-a and 3-c, it states that the provisions may have cash effects which may worsen the need. With regard to Article 10, it is true that there is a ceiling on expenditure, but it is a very difficult thing to verify because it refers to an implementing decree that will be issued at a later date. It is called for at least this decree to be implemented by Parliament's budget committees. As regards Article 11-a, reference is made to a variable fund and therefore it is difficult to assess whether the safeguard clause will cover the needs. Article 14, paragraph 2, - I read - contains a clause of invariance of the burdens difficult to demonstrate and probably unsustainable. And I'm not saying that, but the Senate Budget Committee. In relation to Article 15, a rather small burden is envisaged, which may not be sufficient. In Article 16 (8), the formula included on compatibility with budgetary resources does not seem to reassure on the invariance of charges. This is the opinion that the Budget Commission had written about this decree: almost half of the articles are not covered, as usual. You have to explain to me how the 5th Commission can give a non-observatory opinion on a decree when half of the articles are not covered. There has been a very heated debate in the Commission on this, but unfortunately, as always, it has been decided to give a non-obstacle opinion. I would like the House to tell me whether the 5th Commission is here to cover the decrees and therefore make sure that the decrees-laws have a cover, as per the Constitution, or simply have to cover the majority and the government: if we are to cover the government and the majority, we close the Senate that is of no use; if instead it is to verify the coverage that the Government presents do its job. For a year we have been discussing the budget in the Commission of these decrees which come in and have hardly ever been covered when we repeatedly say to the oppositions that this is the last time, to the oppositions that vote against the opinions of the 5th Commission. I would like the whole of the 5th Commission finally to assume the responsibility of saying that the decrees are not covered, rather than expressing an opinion that is not precluded by comments that state otherwise. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u75	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u76	Madam President, I have listened with great interest to the speech made by our Minister, Mr Franceschini, who, I believe, has made a very clear point which does not yet seem to be reflected in the speeches made by the opposition representatives in Parliament. I say this because in particular Senator Centinario, from the top of his competence, having operated in the tourist field, has mentioned the fact that this decree is completely insufficient to achieve a revaluation of tourism as an element of employment, work and economic growth for Italian companies and of rebirth of the Country, which occupies only the fourth-fifth place in the world in the awareness that Italy is in the first place, for the interest it arouses in citizens of the whole planet and in the investors of international tourism. Perhaps because of my mentality (I have performed the first public function as mayor), I am accustomed to reason in terms of progression, necessity and concreteness and to put to use, even with imagination, that potentiality that exists in each of us and that leads to overcoming the difficulties, appealing to every possible and recoverable resource. I believe that it is not conceivable to listen to words that underestimate the sector within the Senate, because on the path we are making on tourism there is evidence of a clarity of intent, consistency of behaviour and the will to bring Italy out of swamps in which it has entered - ahinoi - because of the inability of the previous governments, who have gone crazy to evaluate tourism as a residual and almost folkloristic element. I remember the credits offered through bank financing to those who wanted to go on vacation, going to debt with their bank account. This is not how tourism is done, neither here nor in the rest of the planet. At last, in Italy we begin to consider tourism a fundamental voice if, in the first place, we recover our cultural assets; then we open them; we manage to make them as high as possible thanks to a partnership with the private, but above all we resume the line of a worldwide tourism promotion that sees the Italian brand returning to the international scene. And here, together with what incredibly we are doing with the reforms of Title V, we put in writing clearly with the norms that we are voting that to enhance for example Lake Garda - an area from which I come - in Istanbul fairs rather than those of Tokyo are not just three pieces of land (the Veneto, the Trentino-Alto Adige and Lombardy), but the country that is called Italy and that represents its many beauties, its many lakes, its many opportunities of culture and landscape that do not have equals in the world. In this decree we see the value of startups, with the possibility for tourism companies to be born and develop on the web, an area in which our country is really one of the last of the planet. And again we see how, within the framework of the national strategic plan for the development of tourism in Italy, priority will be given to projects for the enhancement of the landscape, also through the creation and implementation of dedicated cultural tourist itineraries, inserted in national circuits. This means that we begin to speak a language that is understandable and known abroad, normally experienced in other countries that in the meantime have passed us, becoming the second, first and third in terms of the quantity of tourists. It is therefore to be welcomed that the promotion of tourism can recover from that 12% of people employed and 9% of GDP. In conclusion, I want to give an answer to that line of Churchill, quoted by the Minister, to those who asked why we are fighting; I hope that our fight will be useful for Italy today and tomorrow, to get out of this crisis. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u78	Madam President, I would like to address Mr Franceschini, frankly expressing my regret for the way in which this affair has taken place and noting the uniqueness, unanimity of intent, good intentions and beautiful visions that the debate on this decree-law has highlighted. Unfortunately, the question of trust puts Parliament once again in a position to make frankly divisive choices, which choke the debate and do not facilitate dialogue between different cultural and political components and sensitivities; all of this, of course, also in the consideration that Minister Franceschini wanted to give to this debate. I note that this is a decree of urgency: we put the stakes, that is, we put the focus on priority issues and of great commitment in the coming days. Therefore, the need to review the whole matter in order to reorder it and to give a more complete sense to enter into the contemporary politics of tourism and the protection of cultural goods is postponed to a broader bill. Well, if I had not had that interruption in the previous speech, I would have said what I am going to say now: our Group is certainly available, at a time when the vision will be comprehensive and broad enough, to change its opinion on these matters, always in the logic of making tourism policies and the protection of cultural goods a strategic sector with regard to tourism, and of an ethical and moral nature, with regard to the protection of cultural goods, in order to pass on their use and memory to future generations. Unfortunately, the debate, with the government's approach, that is, with the question of trust, requires us to make a negative assessment. We are against this Government: we have different visions from those of the Renzi Government; this aspect, therefore, does not favour dialogue and does not put this House in a position to reach that shared horizon that has been highlighted in many aspects of the debate. There are young people waiting for a strong signal, with the Superintendences to be reformed. Various sectors of an industrial nature, such as tourism, are waiting for a real breakthrough. We are waiting for this to happen, and it is not yet a vague thing, to facilitate a real recovery of that growth which does not yet appear on the horizon. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u79	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u80	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes in the debate that is taking place in this place it seems to be part of the game of the parties and there is, unfortunately, from many of my fellow Members a clear and destructive attitude towards any act that comes from the Government and this majority. Frankly, it is a real pity for me, that I come from a devastated territory, just from the point of view of cultural, moral and civil heritage following the earthquake, to listen to some interventions, such as those that I have followed very carefully so far, which have substantially criticized and demolished in an inconsistent way, respect what is present in the decree, for the only taste of opposing. I don't think we're gonna get very far. On the contrary, I believe that this bill, which we are going to pass today, has some important working tools. I would therefore like to thank the members of the Commission and the Minister for the important words he has just spoken in this House. I have dealt in particular with this draft law in the Committee on Regional Affairs, where we have dealt with a number of issues which the decree presented and which were then properly verified, modified and introduced by the House. In that forum, in the Commission, we have checked point by point, with the important cooperation of all our colleagues - so much so that the opinion has been expressed positively and almost unanimously - how new, important opportunities are contained in this draft law, which is not positive, fair and useful to disavow heavily also because many of them were not there, and no one before this Government and this majority had planned to introduce them. So perhaps the debate should be dealt with with with greater respect for choices that nevertheless produce innovations in the cultural field, cultural promotion and tourism. Undoubtedly we are a country that banally - let's say continuously - has a great heritage, but banally we always have to say that we do not know how to use it or value it: of banality in banality, maybe we should in this place that is not a place of banality, instead try to get out of generic discussions and confront ourselves with the choices to make; and here there are some. I do not think that any of the choices made should be underestimated at all. I think that it is particularly important, and indeed very important, to choose to introduce the tax credit in favour of those who make liberal money payments for interventions in favour of cultural goods. None of us, wherever he lives and is resident, can consider superficial or not useful the interventions planned for Pompeii and the Palace of Caserta, two sites patrimony of humanity and definitely heritage of our country. I think it is particularly important, in the decree which is required for conversion, to forecast financial interventions for lyrical-symphonic foundations and for the project "Mille giovani per la cultura" (Thousand Young People for Culture). [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the full text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the report. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u81	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u84	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, once again we are faced with yet another decree on which the question of trust is raised. This House has almost become addicted to trust in just a few days now, but it is clear that the choice of this Government is to have only one branch of Parliament work on every decree, while the other, whether it be the House or the Senate, must simply ratify. It is a monocameralism that goes even beyond the proposal for constitutional reform that we are discussing these days because, in whatever of the two Chambers begins the discussion, the important thing is not to change the text of the Government. So the arcane is revealed: call for speed and change but the real goal of your reforms is to concentrate all powers in the hands of the Executive because the motto is: do not disturb the maneuverer. (17.53) (Following PETRAGLIA). Of course, it would be too serious to amend Article 70 of the Constitution: then try to do so in practice. Once again, Parliament's legislative function and the possibility of improving the text of the decree are taken away from both branches of Parliament: I must say that this vulnus applies both to the majority and to the opposition, where we on this decree would have wanted to confront ourselves secularly on the subject, but once again it was not possible. Even the Commission's work was mortified because the majority used the alleged delays in examining the decree in the Commission to schedule constitutional reform. So we saw the embarrassing scene of the majority rejecting their amendments, about the speed at which they could work. As many previous speakers have said, the decree introduces instruments to protect and support our cultural heritage and relaunch the tourism sector. These are issues that are particularly dear to us, because we are convinced that in order to revive the economy, investments in culture are those with the greatest potential, precisely because of their strong multiplier effect and, above all, because of the importance they have for future generations. In the same way, tourism and the reorganization of the national tourist system, linked to the valorization of the cultural heritage, are a fundamental strength for our territory. Today, the tax credit of 65% has been discussed extensively: I do not want to go too far, but I just want to say that this instrument is a strengthening of a measure which already existed in our system but which has not been used since 1982. If it works, as we obviously hope, the funds for culture will increase. Of course, however, we must also be honest and say that in the end there will be less revenue for the tax, and so it was worthwhile to invest directly the money that was needed for the protection and enhancement of the heritage, without having to depend on the generosity of the individual. However, we agree with the Minister and we hope that this time there will be no more excuses and that the generosity will be more than broad. Similarly, we must say that we consider tax credit at 65% as a starting point, because we hope to reach 100%, as in the United States, which we always take for example. However, we would like to stress more than anything that not only tax incentives are needed to encourage investments in culture by individuals or businesses, but we need an extraordinary project capable of creating and consolidating the awareness that cultural investments are a great opportunity for the economic and social revival of the country, just as happens in Europe and the United States, where another story is being written. In France, Germany and the United States, state funding has been maintained - indeed increased - precisely because of the anti-cyclical role attributed to cultural investment. According to Eurostat and WTO estimates, tourism and culture make a larger contribution to GDP than in the construction sector. In Italy, the contribution of the cultural sector to gross domestic product, around 2.3%, is half that in France and the United Kingdom, at the expense of the number of jobs that are skilled and young in this sector. Our country can therefore maintain a competitive margin only by investing in human heritage, returning to investing in training and research, musical, artistic, theatrical, cinematic, cultural heritage, environmental and landscape education initiatives. It is therefore necessary not only to finance and promote excellence, which can find its own international trade space, but also to support and grow the many basic initiatives, which can be a powerful engine for the development of the territory also in terms of enhancing the quality of life. It is therefore quite clear that in addition to the best known works, our cultural heritage is based on an extraordinary network of cultural assets, which everyone here has remembered and which it is good to continue to support. In that direction, we had an amendment which provided, from an equalization perspective, for the allocation of a percentage on each donation in favour of an aid fund for minor cultural goods that need timely intervention. The decree also contains the possibility of hiring young graduates in art history and other disciplines on a fixed-term basis, in derogation from the limits imposed on administrations other than cultural goods. Well, that's good news. However, we note that the managers who arrive are reserved for apical and well-paid roles and young professionals in cultural heritage are offered the usual precariousness. Of course, fixed-term contracts are much better, as provided for in the changes made to the House of Deputies, than the flexible contracts that the Government was talking about in the original text. Perhaps the Government did not notice the many young unemployed people in Italy, who unfortunately have over 29 years of age, graduates and specialists who are facing a competition behind each other. Yet a few years have passed since the last MIBACT competition for reception and care services, in which thousands and thousands of young people participated, whose cultural and educational level was very high, as the newspapers also widely reported. Then a spontaneous question arises: why didn't we hire all the necessary staff on that occasion, rather than inventing a new decree? This decree also intervenes on the site of Pompeii, providing for the acceleration of the design, also with the assumption of twenty designers by the Special Superintendence of the Grand Pompeii project. All right, but we are concerned about the excessive simplification procedures. We believe that transparency and legality must be maintained. Unfortunately, recent history - and I am referring to the Expo - tells us that "exceptional powers" when it comes to procurement, generate corruption. We must be very careful, then, even if we had already denounced this danger in the discussion of the decree "culture value" when we talked about "contracting stations." We are opposed to the choice of the continuous urgent committees and we are calling for the institutions to re-appropriate their powers and functions, without always hiding behind the delegation to a Commissioner. This also applies to the appointment of a commissioner for the Palace of Caserta. Minister, I believe that we have once again missed the opportunity to make a radical renewal of the structure; it makes no sense to proceed with exceptional measures: clear rules are needed to make the machine work. I would like to focus on the famous project "Mille Giovani per la Cultura" (Thousand Youth for Culture): this has also been an issue on which we have discussed many times in this legislative year. We have always said - and we have tabled an amendment to this effect - that at least three million euros are needed for the financing of the project for next year, in order to make sense of it. As we have pointed out several times, this should be a job opportunity for so many young people, not an opportunity for further insecurity. It is no longer possible for young graduates, specialists and doctorates to be used as interns without destiny. It is also from the formation of our young people that the possibility of preserving our heritage passes. Of course, we welcome the addition of an additional 50 million to the lyric foundations, which clean up the budgets. We had tabled a number of amendments in this direction, in particular on the matter of ALES SpA and the relocation of workers to other public administrations. We consider it wrong to consider ALES a kind of social shock absorber. We believe that the solution exists, it is up to the Government to carry it out, respecting the commitments made in Parliament: the social partners, the regions, the municipalities are involved and work immediately to guarantee every job. It is not acceptable that only the workers should pay for the mistakes of the policy and of the managers appointed by it, all of whom are laudably paid. The feeling - and we hope it is not the truth, even if we fear it - is that this decree-law will lead to dismissals with doubtful guarantee of re-hire. We would have expected at least from the Minister's words in this House more guarantees. I am afraid I have to conclude, so I reserve the right to deliver the full text of my speech to be annexed to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). We would have liked to have discussed all this in depth if the question of trust had not been raised, but we understand that the ability to listen to this Government is very limited. Parliament and, in particular, the Government should make a commitment, because the Ministry of Cultural Heritage needs to have back the resources of which Tremonti and Bondi picked up in 2008 as a matter of urgency. This is really one of the priorities for the economic and social revival of our country. On culture this time it is no longer possible to make mistakes, because there will be no extra time for anyone. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u87	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Madam President, before I begin my speech, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for Mr Franceschini, who has participated in the whole session here in the Senate and is now listening to explanations of vote, which would seem normal, but that is not the case. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, the Civic Choice Group for Italy will vote strongly for the confidence to a measure that considers very important because it expresses, already with its adoption, the character of strategic priority that the Government attaches to culture and tourism for our economy, for the future of young people, to create new job opportunities and, even before, because it indicates this sector as the one through which Italy can recover its identity, an identity that everywhere in the world is linked to the beauty, art, culture and creative vitality of a people that feeds itself precisely from its historical and cultural roots. I believe that the measure is almost the most important of those adopted by the Government because there is a medium and long-term horizon, unlike other measures which, while having significance in terms of economic impact, had a short-term perspective. These objectives have been expressed many times by governments and majorities in these decades. They have been declared, and so many times they have been missed in their implementation because, in my opinion, first of all of cultural and political resistance. Since the 1980s (do you remember the famous cultural fields?) The idea of extracting value from culture has for a long time been rejected by the world of culture, which has considered an unacceptable contamination the interweaving between the protection of cultural goods and their economic management. This vision has been politically supported for a few decades by the left, all oriented to economic growth based on industry and not on the exploitation of our historical and landscape assets. We think of some bad choices such as those of Termini Imerese or Gioia Tauro, which sacrificed unparalleled tourist sites to the idea of a development of the industrial model, the only horizon conceived in the seventies by the workers' culture of the union and the PCI. On the institutional level, this taboo broke in the early 1990s, when the new mayors elected directly by the citizens in the great Italian cities of culture - from Rome to Naples, from Venice to Turin, from Palermo to Florence - focused on culture in order to relaunch the urban economy of cities that were bent by the crisis, from Tangentopoli and had to rebuild a new perspective from the foundations. So twenty years have passed since that turn and yet, at the national political level, there has been a lack of a great strategic plan for culture and tourism, a plan which, as has also been said in this debate, cannot only concern cultural heritage, but also tourism, the infrastructure system, the management at national level of a tourism offer that is now moving on a global scale. Therefore, there has been no strategic vision of the system; there have been fragmentation and localism, an effect, among other things, of the set-up of competences defined in 2000 by the new Title V. Also for this - I think it must be remembered and emphasized - the constitutional reform that we are discussing is important for the future of our country. Today, this decree is a significant step in the right direction: first, it introduces the partial but substantial tax relief of private contributions for interventions on cultural heritage and cultural institutions. How substantial the Minister has pointed out that at this point we are not second in Europe as regards fiscal incentives to the contribution of private individuals. This is also a turning point because it recognises that the enormous Italian cultural heritage cannot be protected and valued only by public resources and because it affirms the principle that private resources must be directed towards purposes of collective interest. And it is astonishing - I want to stress this and reflect on this - that those who hurricane themselves against the speculative use of private capital then are equally adverse and contrary if the same capital, through appropriate tax mechanisms (the taxation of these resources is still higher than even the increased taxes on financial income), are diverted to public goods. So, you have to choose: where do you want capital to be oriented? I believe that this is an important choice that concerns culture, but also other public goods such as infrastructure, because only in this way - we must know and be aware of this - our heritage can survive. We do not have the resources: the public budgets will not be able to take on, even if they were managed in the most efficient way, the enormous heritage that our country holds. Many think that they can defend a world that is no longer there, a world that, moreover, closed in its bureaucratic or corporate self-referentiality, has not always borne fruit, if we must judge by the results, that is, by the degradation of some sites entrusted for decades to the Superintendences or by the scandal of the Opera Theatre, whose painful decline screams at the comparison of the Auditorium of Rome, whose managerial management, through a public-private mechanism, has given extraordinary positive results and makes that institution an attraction for the whole city. But Minister Franceschini is also right, because now private individuals will no longer have alibis and will have to play their part. We therefore share the overall range of actions that the measure intends to put in place or stimulate: from strengthening and simplifying the instruments to implement the interventions of the Grand Pompeii project, to measures to support the cinema sector, to actions to promote employment and entrepreneurship in the field of culture and tourism. However, I would like to stress here the provisions relating to the 2019 Italian Programme, and I thank the Minister for having wished to include them, because they were born from a motion unanimously approved by the Senate, promoted at my first signature but with the accession of many colleagues, and that, I believe rightly, tends to enhance the design that, throughout the journey undertaken for the European capital of culture, the cities have put in place involving urban systems, creativity, young people, the economy of those territories. That programme has therefore already led to the involvement and revitalization of those urban fabrics; to put them into system, to use Community funds that are so difficult to spend on projects that are already ready, I think that is a very timely and very intelligent idea. There is a small chip that starts this project and I hope that in the implementation they can be conveyed to this channel... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Thank you, Madam President, it is not easy to speak with this buzz. As I said, I hope that both national and regional resources can be channelled to this objective when implementing them, involving the territories. The hope therefore is that the work can continue, in the coming months, in the direction initiated by this measure, defining a broader and more organic intervention, an intervention for culture and tourism inserted in a strategic plan that engages the entire Government and also the system of Regions and Municipalities to finally put culture and tourism at the center of policies for growth. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u90	ROMANO (PI). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I announce that the Per l'Italia Group will vote in favour of the decree we are debating today. But before listing the specific reasons, I think it is appropriate to put to our attention the logic, the ratio, that thread that animates and gives substance to the measure. The decree to me seems to synthesize at the same time a strong valorization of cultural heritage and the protection of cultural heritage in its various forms of representation, as well enrolled - and I believe this is the most important aspect - at the same time in the history of a population and as they fly the full development of a country itself. I believe that this is the aspect that animated and formed the drafting of the decree. 18:13 p.m. (Romano followed). It is a sort of virtuous combination where the cultural good, in itself identified as a material good, is nothing more than the representation and epiphenomenon of that immaterial good that is imbued in history, and that is what is defined precisely as culture. The dimension of culture needs - as the etymology of the word itself indicates - to be cultivated (color said the ancient Latins). The dimension of culture therefore becomes the common heritage of every citizen, and thus becomes a political declination. The real dimension of a policy that rises to its nobility is not only limited to the development of democracy, which instead is founded through the awareness of cultural history, through which it must be represented as a good that belongs to everyone and, as such, to everyone. I believe that this is the fundamental aspect of the decree that today we are going to approve definitively, also known at the media level as art bonuses, because it has the merit to make operational the numerous instances advanced in recent years and to represent an authentic innovation in the field of culture and tourism, introducing concrete and operational tools to support the national heritage and relaunch the tourism sector. Culture and cultural heritage are no longer considered only goods to be protected and valued (which is necessary, however not sufficient) but as an important lever for Italy's recovery and growth. Therefore, those variations of culture and economy that have often seemed to be in contrast, find in the decree a development such as to allow them to walk together. The measure provides for measures to retrain tourism supply, improve the usability of cultural heritage and promote youth employment. In summary, with it we finally begin to consider the national artistic heritage as the engine of the development of the Italy system. It is a country, ours - and it is well to remember it once again - that possesses the largest cultural heritage in the world, with over 3,400 museums, about 2,100 archaeological areas and parks and 43 UNESCO sites, but that, despite this absolute record in the world, cannot draw to date an economic return and we can also say commercial. It is a country ours (and we like to remember it less) that, in view of the richness of this unique cultural heritage, compared to many other foreign realities, can not however exploit and value the enormous potential of growth. The decree under consideration provides for a reduced tax regime, in the form of a tax credit of 65%, in favour of natural and legal persons who carry out liberal payments in cash for cultural and entertainment interventions, in favour of museums, archaeological sites, archives, libraries, theatres and lyrical-symphonic foundations. This is a tax credit on which tourist facilities can count, with a deduction of 30% of the sums invested in restructuring, modernisation and digitisation. It intervenes on the procedures of the Grande Progetto Pompei, already interested in the decree value culture, in order to accelerate the realization, introducing specific provisions on the entrustings of public contracts, also in derogation from the code of contracts. It has a reorder of the Palace of Caserta and a procedure aimed at reassigning the spaces of the entire complex, in order to return it to its exclusive - stresses it exclusive - and peculiar cultural, educational and museum destination. It integrates the code of cultural heritage and landscape, in order to ensure the decoration of the monumental complexes and other buildings of the cultural property, a destination of particularly important tourist flows. He then spoke on Article 11 of the decree value culture, relating to lyric-symphonic foundations. Another merit concerns the provision of a tax credit for national executive and post-production companies for films or parts of films shot on national territory using Italian labour, but on a commission of foreign productions, which should recall in our wish foreign investments in Italy, perhaps the great American film industry, but not only. Congratulations to this decree also for having started the path of regulation of the tourist professions, so far incomplete and delegated to the regional laws; and the prediction of the digitization of the tourism sector, to which it also grants a tax credit. The introduction of the new strategic planning instrument, called "Great cultural heritage" projects, which identifies assets or sites of exceptional cultural interest and of national importance for which it is necessary and urgent to carry out organic interventions of protection, upgrading, valorization and cultural promotion, also for tourist purposes, as well as the provision of the possibility for regions and territorial authorities to employ, through fixed-term employment contracts, the professionals competent to carry out interventions on cultural assets, aged no more than 40 years, to meet temporary needs for strengthening reception and assistance services to the public, for the enhancement of cultural goods, etc. Finally, I would like to mention the provisions aimed at the usability of the Italian cultural and tourist heritage, consisting, among other things, in the adoption of an Extraordinary Plan of Tourist Mobility, with particular attention to the destinations "minori," South Italy and the internal areas of the Country and the possibility of granting free public buildings not used for institutional purposes, for the promotion of pedestrian, cycling, equestrian, motorbike, river and railway routes; or those, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, which dictate additional requirements, compared to those of the current legislation, to consider innovative start-ups also companies that have as social object the promotion of the national tourist offer. For these reasons, for these very quick arguments, but not least, certainly, for that combination that I remembered to be the guiding thread of this decree, where cultural assets are the tangible manifestation of our history and represent a flywheel regarding our evolution from the cultural, but also economic point of view, the Per l'Italia Group reiterates its favourable vote on the confidence that will be requested. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups and Senators D'Anna and Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u93	SCAVONE (GAL). Madam President, first of all, as a member of the Education Commission, I would like to thank Minister Franceschini for his constant presence in the Commission and for the institutional style with which he has continued to follow the work of this House. I would also like to thank President Marcucci, the excellent President of the Commission, who has always been a super-partisan and very good at managing the moments of political tension that have gone through the work of the Commission, with an intelligent and flexible activity, which has, however, allowed the maximum usefulness of the work. Thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, and to Commission officials. We listened in more than one intervention to the passionate tones with which we wanted to emphasize what is the richest heritage of our country, a deposit of great cultural richness. Just think of the 3,609 museums, the nearly 5,000 cultural sites between monuments and archaeological areas, the more than 46,000 tied architectural assets, the 49 UNESCO sites: a heritage of tangible goods and intangible traditions, which is the most precious thing we have. I would add what we have in Sicily, about 111 sites, which make the vast majority of the assets, 46 percent, to be found in the Centre-South. If that is true, it is just as well known that it is not enough to possess this enormous wealth of cultural goods to automatically attract a demand for cultural consumption. In fact, our territory has been characterized over time by numerous, too many archaeological, artistic and maintenance emergencies, which have brought a huge damage to our capacity for tourist-cultural attraction. From recent data, it appears that Italy, once an undisputed world leader for international tourist arrivals, has lost huge slices of the market and when tourism grows from us, this growth is however lower than that recorded in foreign countries. However, the tourism sector is a key sector of our economy, accounting for 10% of GDP. Inside, cultural tourism employs more than 2 million people and the cultural sector alone produces about 5% of GDP and employs more than 1.5 million people. So the government, as the good rapporteur pointed out this morning, is doing well to link these two sectors, tourism and culture, and to predict their growth through coordinated policies that are part of a single great strategy of development and exploitation. In recent years, we have seen a characterisation of public intervention in the cultural field, aimed mainly at putting conservation policies in place, rather than culture production policies. And, in fact, this approach is still a little affected by the decree that comes to our attention today, while for the future I trust in the commitment and passion shown by Minister Franceschini so that this report can be overturned. Today, in fact, under the devastating influences of the crisis, the only conservative moment cannot suffice, even if this certainly means protecting and subtracting our heritage from commodification and defending the territories from the impoverishment and logic of negative exploitation, because preserving without valorization would certainly not be a sign of progress: preserving without well managing the cultural heritage would only be a regression. That is why I feel like stressing here the best attitude that we must take, which is that of the production of culture, that is to help the creation of new expressions of art both in tangible forms, such as museums, monumental complexes, archives, sites and archaeological finds or libraries, both in intangible forms, such as music, especially by promoting access to culture through new technologies in every form of expression. Innovation, the creation of new skills and the intensive use of the most advanced technologies can generate new models for the development of the cultural sector and generate economic well-being for the community. The central hub that allows cultural goods to enter the great world of advanced technologies is basically that of digitization, i.e. the transformation of a monument, a painting, a sculpture in an electronically transferable and usable file, albeit with the limits and approximation that belong to a virtual use of the good and yet fundamental to increase its knowledge. Now, of course, conservation is the prerequisite for good cultural production, but the supply chain of a cultural asset is a concept of economic policy, which tends to give prominence to many other actors, both public and private, declining roles and tasks. And it seems to me that in this decree, where the conservative outlook, as I said, still seems to prevail over the productive one, we see, as well as in the words of the Minister, new interesting instruments: from patronage in a modern way, to the provision of tax credits for those who work liberal donations in favour of the support of places of culture or for maintenance. However, these instruments seem to us to be a positive step, but only a first step in relation to the needs of the globalisation of the world of culture. For example, the decree does not take sufficient account of the training processes, given that the increase in the quality of academies, as well as public and private programmes for art and creativity, is a heavy task that politics has often neglected gently. But the stage of the production of culture cannot be without the ideas of the artists, with respect to whom the organizational structures, even expensive (I want to remember the theatres and the film industry), are a fundamental instrument of promotion. At these stages it is important for the public and private sectors to meet, for the State to do more to make the private sector more generous, to redefine in detail the tasks and the ground on which cooperation can be made at a higher level, also in order to combine culture and tourism more effectively. Today various scholars raise their voices of this relationship between culture and tourism to say that the model of mere conservation, although important, is outdated because this model would create limited synergies with a few other sectors of the economy, and among these, precisely, tourism; we refer in particular to the small restoration company, to the small building company, to the computer companies specialized in cataloguing, to the specialized publishing. The cultural good is above all an indication of an identity, a sign of a path of civilization that must belong with full consciousness to the territorial community. Trust has been placed on this decree; it is a pity, because it is a good start and already only the passionate work of the Minister would have deserved generous and convinced support from each of us. Unfortunately, having to vote for confidence, this decree will not have our vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u96	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I have had the opportunity to reiterate many concepts in my first speech during the general discussion of the decree-law, but I must say that the very energetic considerations, which I fully share, of Minister Franceschini lead me to speak again in the explanation of vote, in order to reiterate the convivially positive vote of the Group for the Autonomousists. I would like to highlight some of the new features of the Minister's statements, which also go in the same direction that I was oriented towards when I was a city councilman for culture, also clashing with a management of the culture of previous legislation still imprisoned by some schemes to which the Minister also referred. The first novelty (it should not be such and in no part of the world it is, but in Italy it is so) is that of no longer having taboos, of considering culture as an area that must permeate the whole of society and that can safely be exercised and known by anyone, but distinguishing between quality and culture that is not such. There must rightly be no fear of confronting the private, there cannot be fenced between the culture carried out by the public or by the private, because culture is such if it produces added value: if it is a culture that makes the individual grow and a society and therefore serves to improve our system. Again there is no fear to monitor the results. In the Province of Trento I had set up an observatory that was used to calculate relapses, which should not necessarily be economic, can also be social, because culture can also produce benefits that are not monetizable but serve to increase social cohesion, the degree of knowledge and integration or simply to improve the quality of life. But the results must be there, so we must be able to distinguish the individual initiatives from the effects they produce and the results they achieve, even in terms of numbers, because we must not be afraid to evaluate the individual cultural events also on the basis of the involvement they manage to create in numerical terms or, for example, accessibility. Let's think of those audiences who struggle to get closer to culture for reasons such as physical disability, poor culture, remoteness from the centres of cultural production; let's think of young people (to be able to involve young people in cultural events I believe has an added value) as well as older people. I also heard in the Minister's speech the strong will to rejuvenate the sector. There is little to say about this: young people are the ones who generally bring new ideas and therefore the ageing of this sector and being able to bring in, even with atypical contracts, new energies, new ideas and youth creativity is fundamental. Culture is structured, it must be stabilized (we all know this) but it must be an elastic sector that moves and in a certain sense adapts to changes in society, sometimes anticipating or determining them, if we really want culture to be - as the Minister said - a factor of growth from all points of view. I also like the definition of a museum open to the territory. The museum represents the identity of a territory, represents a history, but there is no contradiction between representing the identity of a territory and, at the same time, carrying forward the openness, because openness is not at all in contradiction with identity. We have to make them live together. There is one element that must be common and it is quality. And so we have to pursue excellence as an objective that ultimately leads to growth and gives added value to something that we already have, because if culture lacks this goal then obviously has something that doesn't work. Similarly, there must be no contrast between professionalism and volunteering: who has ever said that cultural volunteering is necessarily of poor quality and cultural professionalism is excellence? They are two different roles, two ways to advance the different culture, but both are valid and we must support both with different tools and ensure that when cultural volunteering reaches significant levels of quality and excellence it can become a cultural enterprise, it can give rise to high-level cultural experiences that can compete with the rest of Italy or the world. And finally, I share the emphasis on technology and the need to innovate communication tools, with openness to new languages. We are also behind on this, extraordinarily behind unfortunately, and we have a lot of ground to recover. Therefore, I really want to reiterate the satisfaction of how this decree-law, even if it is not a structural and general reform, tries to carry out some objectives clearly and also try to launch challenges, because - as I said before - those who collect them must be able to do so and produce results that are then useful to all. I also very much liked this idea of culture not only for the employees, because culture is a responsibility of all, it is part of a collective responsibility and it is a challenge that must necessarily affect everyone, primarily the actuators, those who form schools and centres of cultural production, but in the end it is also necessarily a social challenge. And so, as the Minister has also said, private capital is well to come; those who want to invest well come. Rightly until today they had alibis because it almost seemed to break a taboo letting the private get involved in cultural matters. It is true that we have superintendents made of great skills, but sometimes they are too closed and they think they almost have a fort to defend: woe if the private gets involved, woe if another superintendence gets us caught; woe to make collaboration between museums, modern art with ancient art. That's impossible. They're all special niches. Specialization is fundamental, but who said that you cannot specialize and interact with other sectors at the same time? Who said culture can't mix with tourism? On the contrary, I believe that this is the real challenge of Italian tourism, in addition to environmental tourism (because we fortunately have a climate variety that leads us to be very different from other realities): our tourism has a future only if it will be able to enhance its extraordinary artistic, cultural heritage, traditions, languages, dialects and different stories and be in essence interesting; in fact, the tourist goes to a place to be well and to find services, but above all to search for what he does not have in the place where he lives: he therefore seeks the gastronomic specialty, the soul of a territory and, above all, that history and that art that in his country or in the place where he lives cannot find. Then I remember the challenge about young people. This is the challenge we are most concerned about and that has emerged also from the Minister's words; the brain drain, the fact that many young people are prepared, know languages, have traveled the world, have put in place high-level exhibition initiatives, but unfortunately they cannot live with culture. Unfortunately, there are working relationships with wages that are below the subsistence threshold; many times they work for free and, therefore, we really risk going abroad, changing interests, causing dramatic impoverishment. This is an interest that already exists in this decree-law, but I believe that the real challenge for the cultural sector is to give trust and all possible tools to all people who have skills to spend, enthusiasm, desire to get involved, because dealing with culture and art is difficult and is a huge risk. I believe that this is the most important challenge facing us. Moreover, the Minister also announced a more comprehensive and general measure. I therefore hope that within this new legislation there may be some other new measure to promote youth employment or training, growth and the development of cultural enterprises that are very few in Italy today. I conclude by announcing the positive vote of our Group and pointing out that this decree-law represents an important step, but also the direction on which we must move. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u99	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as often happens in these decrees, there are some lights and some shadows. In this decree we see the will of the Government to carry out a centralization of tourism and trade; a somewhat antithesis with what they have done in previous years the Governments, instead implementing a decentralization through federalism. I always assume that those who work try to do their best, but something has not convinced us in this decree. Entering into the substance of the measure, certainly a positive note comes from the rules concerning hotel accommodation renovations. Our Group, for this very reason, also in the 10th Commission, when we talked about the reductions in restructuring, had worked hard to try to understand the extent to which they could be included in these concessions. I also make a positive note on the issue of art bonus, which is to the right extent, as our Parent Company also points out. It's probably less okay with Pompeii, which I've been hearing about for six years, since I've been in Rome. The same applies to Caserta's palace. There are also some issues related to lyrical-symphonic foundations, measures in favour of cinema, the enhancement of cultural heritage and the extension of tourist districts. Governments in recent years have been rather cautious in bringing in private individuals, trying to understand how one could not fall into European sanctions. We have also seen countries, such as France and Germany, which, in the first place, have proposed incentives and facilities for their national companies through favourable sector legislation and no one has said anything. In the government text there are some articles on which the League has tried to propose amending improvements. This, however, Mr President, as you very well know, could only happen to the House because in the Senate the Commission was unable to do anything and we were forced to withdraw all the amendments we had proposed for this purpose. There was already a rumor that the Renzi Government wanted to strangle the parliamentary debate here in the Senate, affixing yet another question of trust on the very important decree culture and tourism. Very important because culture and tourism are the key sectors on which this country must rely to raise the fortunes of the economy. I also refer to my Bergamo valleys, where you try to make tourism with what you have: from farmhouses to alpine pastures. A thought cannot fail to go to the fantastic induced that will be Expo, which will represent a little 'the test of the nine regarding the Italian receptive system. It seems to me, however, that the President-in-Office of the Council once again wants to put his foot on the accelerator for a single purpose: to facilitate as much as possible the path of the useless and ill-advised institutional reform. Yet in the initial phase of drafting the decree the works did not go very fast, indeed they went rather slow. The most acute observers had already understood the reason for this. In fact, Madam President, even if we weren't very keen, the motivations were easy to imagine. These are the usual reasons, those always: doubts in the quantification of the greater burdens for the State and the criticality in the finding of the resources for the new needs. The financial cover, that infinite problem of the Italian State, as our colleague of the 5 Star Movement has already pointed out, has not exactly been clear in the Budget Committee. Proof of this is that in these days we are legifying a little "nasometrically"; we are moving like this, "to smell." The verification of the covers, as I said, was approximate. And I am not referring at all to the work done by the 5th Commission, but to the fact that they had to make of necessity virtue. The aim of this measure should be to outline measures, new professional figures that can involve, in particular, the new generations, new initiatives to generate new models of economic development. All this in a sector that represents the largest national industry, with a value of approximately EUR 161 billion or 10.3% of GDP. In 2013 this sector saw 18 million foreigners arrived in Italy attracted by our culture. But, as often happens, we cannot make the only industry not delocalizable profit and we treat this resource as if it were desecrating and materialistic looking for income and opportunities for work precisely with culture. The question of trust is yet another demonstration of the unwillingness to interface with oppositions, yet another proof that this Executive will strike a measure and does not even allow the slightest discussion in the Commission. With all this speed and haste, it seems to me that I am more than in the Senate Chamber on the Great ring road, where everyone swings, when there is no tail, where there is no chance of doing anything and the oppositions are left in the parking spaces. [[Applause from the Divine Senator]] And yet, Madam President, what has not worked? No more than a year ago there was talk of urgent provisions for the protection, enhancement and revival of cultural assets and activities. I repeat, not more than a year ago. Why, apart from some insertion of new types of intervention, did you have to put your hand again with another decree? What didn't work? Where was the previous one lacking? Perhaps it was calibrated for a single year and it was understood that this did not work? Why the need to return with this measure to matters dealt with just twelve months ago? The reason is dramatically simple. Italy has the largest cultural heritage in the world: 3,400 museums, 200 archaeological areas and parks, 43 UNESCO sites, a huge theatrical and musical culture, and about 800 kilometres of beaches. But - because in this blessed country there is always a but - despite this absolute record in the world, it results from analyses made that the United States, with less than half of the sites compared to Italy, have an economic return equal to seven times the Italian one. Then, the questions arise spontaneously: perhaps because the money also allocated by the European Union (1.5 billion) has returned to the coffers from which they started; perhaps because some money has been spent slowly, sometimes with the dropper, dispersed in a myriad of territorial micro-interventions or perhaps because allocated to large projects that then marked incredible delays in the implementation times. It is a fact that they will be spent for a great slice for directors, directors' directors, deputy directors, strategic management committees, committees that are the head of the prefects, heads, heads and sub-heads: an army of subjects who, in various ways, will have to ensure the regularity of the contracts of the firms and avoid mafia infiltrations. We are a people of saints, artists, navigators, and I would also add commissioners. There is nothing in this blessed country that is not a police station: sometimes we even have the Commissioner's commissioner. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Commissioners in this country should monitor projects that some local authorities have proposed a little bit; they should monitor to assess whether there is a positive impact on the economy, and instead we spend too much on projects that we feel compelled to do even if useless, because sometimes we have funding that doesn't make much sense. It would take the ability not to do certain projects. And yet, Madam President, I personally had also relied heavily on the presence in 10a. Commission of Senator Bocca, President of the Federalberghi, because I had, perhaps naively, assumed that with his experience a good job could be done on tourism. This has failed because if these measures do not reach the Commission even Senator Bocca, who, from the top of his experience could be, and it is certainly very useful, not put in a position to act. I shall conclude, Madam President. President Renzi, in his address to the Senate, had touched on the subject of culture and tourism, and said he wanted to show himself and all of us faces and faces of those who had the opportunity, for example, to see a museum at night. Dear President, have you seen the face of those who could not visit the Colosseum at night because you could not find 7, 8, 10 staff units willing to open the museum? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] With tens of thousands of employees in the Province of Rome not to make a pipe! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr Minister, you see, if a Pompeian domus collapses the left wall, then an urgent decree will be issued for financing; if instead the right wall falls then you ask for the resignation of the Minister. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] You recalled that in the House some oppositions abstained (the League did so as well). Perhaps my group would have done so to the Senate if it had had the opportunity to influence the Commission with some amendments or agendas. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] However, the imposition of yet another question of confidence has obviously stiffened our position and therefore our vote will be against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u102	Conte (NCD). Madam President, before the explanation of vote, I too would like to thank Minister Franceschini for his constant presence in this House at all stages of the debate, which responds to the presence of the 7th Commission; The Commission, which is aware that it cannot, for reasons of time - under penalty of forfeiture - make amendments to the text dismissed by the House, has, however, discussed and assessed certain amendments and agendas proposed by the majority. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the President of the Commission for this. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote of confidence in the Government and in favour of the measure under consideration by the New Centro-Right Group, considering the decree not a point of arrival, but a good starting point for a future evolution in the strategy of the policies and initiatives of the Government in the field of culture and tourism. Already in my speech during the general discussion I had the opportunity to highlight some aspects which our Group considers to be fundamental and which it hopes will become the future lines of action to be followed. In particular, the rule referred to in Article 1, which provides for the de-taxation of liberal payments in cash aimed at restoration, conservation, enhancement of monumental sites and places of culture, will have to become structural. It is therefore no longer an almost episodic possibility, because it is limited in time, but a lasting norm, which aligns us with other European countries. We also believe that de-taxation is also made possible for the realization of cultural initiatives, events and celebrations. I quote one example: the anniversary of the centenary of the Great War, an event around which there is great attention and interest, stimulated among other things by the President of the Republic with the anticipation of a calendar of events of a national character. A little 'all Italy, but especially in the places directly concerned, those in which it was fought, in particular in the Veneto, in Trentino and in Friuli, are taking shape initiatives to recover historical sites, monuments, places of interest, but also a rich calendar of events of re-enactment. 18.55 (Follow CONTE) Here, this can become a theme whose events extend over time, to enhance also the tourist prerogatives of these areas. Let's think about what France was able to do at the landing sites in Normandy. Opening the possibility of tax relief also to the initiatives, would allow to motivate private interventions by actors present in the territory that operate in the tourism sector, considering the possibility that from the events planned they can benefit for their activity. On this subject, we believe that specific intervention by the Government of a programmer nature is necessary, but also with the use of targeted resources. We believe that in the future it is appropriate to think of forms of tax relief, also for interventions on privately owned structures, which still constitute a heritage for the whole community, perhaps linking the benefits to the possibility of public use. Fundamental is the union between culture and tourism, well defined in this decree. In his speech, Minister Franceschini well expressed how the path of the future must be this, definitively overcoming the concern that the valorization contrasts with the protection and favors the dissipation of the monumental good. I would like to give an example for everyone in support of this concept. Those of us who have had the opportunity to visit some of the sites recognized as the most beautiful villages in Italy will have been able to realize how these places have been transformed over time in order to continue to make them live, with interventions however intelligent, that have happily combined the principle of protection with the need to make them fit the needs of modern life. I mentioned this example to say how in the enhancement that develops the tourist potential you can also find the economic resources for many restoration and conservation interventions. In this way these goods will be able to return to life, our communities will be able to benefit from it, many economic activities will be able to draw new life. From this point of view it can also be seen the forecast referred to in Article 7, according to which the Ministry will annually equip itself with a new instrument of strategic planning, called Great projects cultural assets. The plan will identify every year assets or sites of exceptional cultural interest and of national importance, for which it is necessary and urgent to carry out interventions of protection, upgrading, valorization and cultural promotion, also for tourist purposes. An ad hoc budget is allocated for the implementation of this plan. In this regard, I return to the question of the opportunities that may arise from the synergy between culture and tourism. Cultural tourism, in this moment of great crisis for our country, can actually constitute an opportunity for economic recovery; I refer to the data of the first months of 2014, in which precisely the only growing sector in Italy is that of tourism, with data growing especially for cultural tourism and with an increase especially of foreigners' presences. It is also well known that cultural tourism is an evolved form of tourism, also because of its spending capacity. Analysis of the sector shows that cultural tourists spend on average 60% more than sea or mountain tourists. To these people who visit our Italy we must have the care and the ability to guarantee the usability of our assets, with museums possibly open even on public holidays where the major tourist flows are concentrated, but also modern accommodation facilities, effective, equipped with efficient organizational capabilities. In this respect, Articles 9, 10 and 11 make economic resources available to operators for the modernisation, security and provision of new IT equipment. I close with a recommendation inspired by the reports on the state of implementation of the decrees approved in recent months - first of all the decree value culture and the decree school of the previous Government - for which full implementation was planned the enactment of regulations or implementing decrees. Since this decree will also be implemented by means of implementing decrees, the recommendation is that they be issued promptly and in any case not later than the scheduled time. The Minister will therefore have to exercise strict control over the structure, in order to prevent this decree from losing some of its value as the time goes by. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Marcucci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u105	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting for the second confidence after a few days: on Friday we voted for confidence in the competitiveness decree, today we vote for confidence in the art bonus decree. If I am not mistaken, it is the tenth trust since the beginning of May, the fourteenth since the advent of the Renzi era: it really seems that what my colleague Petraglia of the Misto-SEL Group said, namely that we are facing the evidence of a monocameralism, is confirmed by the modus operandi of this Government from its establishment to today, and we do not like it at all. If that were the case - by paraphrasing a well-known Latin phrase - it could be said that Renzi Parlamentum ceases. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I will not go into the detail of the decree, because already my colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, as well as colleagues of other political forces, have "scandalized" the provision, highlighting its merits and defects, even if we are not given the opportunity to intervene further on the decree under consideration. In fact, I would like to remind you that it was planned for this measure to come to the Chamber on 21 July, so that the minority forces in the Commission, in a very cooperative spirit, had withdrawn the amendments to allow the decree - I repeat - to arrive in the Chamber on 21 July, so that the text could be amended and returned to the House for final ratification. However, there are constitutional reforms and this decree, like the competitiveness decree, has been sacrificed on the Renzian altar of constitutional reforms, which says a lot. Let's go ahead, though, and let's say what we would have liked to do and we would have liked to talk about. With regard, for example, to Article 1, which concerns patronage, patronage is fine, just as it is fine to rake up resources to protect and enhance our artistic and cultural heritage. However, I would like to remind those who have spoken before and have ascribed all the problems of the lack of resources to the cultural sector to previous governments, that even in the law of stability voted in 2013 there have been further cuts in the sector of culture and the world of school: it would be good to specify to which previous governments colleagues referred. It turns out to us that compared to the previous government, if we speak in terms of Presidents of the Council, things have not changed with reference to the tradition of the cuts perpetuated in the sector of culture: indeed, despite the fact that promises were made, as I recalled before millions of viewers in the living room of Fazio, the cuts have been made. When we talk, then, about previous governments it would be good to identify them. Again with regard to the resources to be rake for the protection and enhancement of our artistic heritage, I would like to remind the Minister that our cities of art also suffer from problems much more small than we who live in Rome have before us every day. For example, in the historic center of Rome the tourist, every two steps, risks falling because the pavé, formed by sampietrini, lacks sampietrini or the same are not well positioned. There is always a risk of falling and the tourist, who should be able to walk with his nose up to enjoy the beauties that surround him, must have his gaze constantly turned to the ground. This may be nonsense, but in a city of art, if you want to put the tourist in the conditions of being able to enjoy the beauty that surrounds him, this is no small detail. It is no small detail to have a train station at which arrival seems to have arrived in the kasbah of Marrakech, without removing anything from that kasbah, which is beautiful from a folkloristic point of view, but in it tourists are constantly risking being robbed or getting on abusive taxis and the controls are not enough. The patronage is fine, therefore, to recover our artistic heritage, everything very well, but let's not forget the details, because the devil nests right there. I now come to Article 2 on Pompeii. If it is true, as could be seen in the original wording of the article, that one of the problems of Pompeii's Great Project is the harmonisation of protection and valorization requirements and the procurement code, we wonder why this opportunity has not been used to make a broader reasoning. The problem of harmonising the needs of the protection and enhancement of our artistic sites with the procurement code - if this is one of the problems - does not only concern Pompeii, but also all other artistic sites. Perhaps this was an opportunity to begin a broader reasoning. With regard to Article 3 on the Palace of Caserta, we do not think that the management is addressed with a view to designing its valorization in compliance with Articles 6 and 111 of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape, because the task of verifying the compatibility between the actual uses of the monumental complex and its destination is not entrusted to the Special Superintendence, but to a commissioner. Here again we have an extraordinary Commissioner, whom I hope he will come to the Commission one day. Unfortunately, we have not yet had the pleasure of appointing the special Commissioner for lyrical-symphonic foundations. I am referring to the Senate Commission: I understand that in your project we are now children of a lesser God, but we still exist and, as long as it is so, it would seem fair and respectful that we were given the authority and respect that we should enjoy. We therefore hope to be able to see, together with the extraordinary commissioner for the lyric-symphonic foundations, and the sole director general of Pompeii, who has not yet had the pleasure of delighting us with his presence (and I am convinced that he would have very interesting things to tell us), we hope one day to see the extraordinary commissioner and to be able to understand the fruits of his work. And since we're in the middle of being in the middle of a police station, why not be in charge of the government at this point? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With regard to Article 7, we wonder why the fund set up is not also intended for serious planned monitoring and maintenance plans and preventive measures. We had tabled two amendments which went in this direction, because one of the problems not only of our archaeological sites, but also of our artistic heritage, is precisely monitoring and prevention works. As far as Article 8 is concerned, we still believe that there is a risk of precariousness for the professions of cultural goods. For tourist guides, as referred to in Article 11, the problem is not solved at all. Article 12 establishes a Guarantee Commission for the protection of cultural heritage. In addition to being dangerous, this Commission is also useless: dangerous because it puts the controller in the hands of the controlled and because very often the problems of lack of respect for the protection of the landscape derive precisely from practices that are not virtuous within the local authorities; useless because there would possibly be other means to control the work of the Superintendences and to appeal against their decisions. You mentioned Winston Churchill earlier, Minister. With your quote, which we share deep in our hearts, we ask you - because culture needs resources - to take the quote you have made, to keep it in your heart, to go to the Minister of Defence and convince you to abandon the F35 programme. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This would mean being consistent with a quote made not end in itself, but because one truly believes what is said. I conclude by saying that we would have loved to vote in favour of this decree, but - and I say this with great regret - unfortunately we will be forced to vote against it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u108	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the Minister's reply we greatly appreciated the part in which he spoke of shared culture, because we believe that cultural heritage, artistic and monumental heritage, the beauty of our country (which represents the strength of tourism, which is an industry and an important asset of our country) are of all people, just as volunteering is, and we obviously have not tried to appropriate it. After your reply, Minister, I am obliged to ask you three questions. First of all, I understand that being the Leader of an opposition force is quite different from sitting on government benches, but the truth is always right to remind everyone. In 2009, when the Colosseum was renovated with the help of private individuals, was it right to do so? Yes or no? In 2010, when Minister Bondi denounced - because it is fair to say, given what happened - the state in which the lyrical-symphonic foundations were placed (my colleagues from that legislature told me that it was the only night sitting in the House of Deputies, with 32 hours of discussion), was it appropriate to talk about it or not? And again - and I agree with what my colleague from the North League said - when that same year the wall of the House of Gladiators fell in Pompeii, it was right to make a motion of distrust against the Minister, which we never did when the collapses repeated? I'm asking for it out of a sense of truth. I appreciate your words, but I think it's right to remember that if you have to change, you have to change who sits on government benches first, because these things have happened. I thank the President of the Commission... Mr President, I stop because I see that President Marcucci is talking to the Minister. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, Senator Marin is addressing you and it is right to listen to him. MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to remember these three things, precisely because, if you leave and do it with sharing, you cannot forget what happened in the past. And we want to start with sharing, because we are convinced that culture is a good of all, but - as you said - it has suffered heavy cuts: we wait for the next law of stability to see if this time instead will be treated differently, compared to that period that goes from 2000 onwards that you have correctly remembered. I also welcome the fact that a stateist approach - if I understood your reply well - to move on to a liberal one, let me give you the expression: on the other hand, Minister, you nodded while listening to the three questions I asked you, so I interpret your head movement in a positive way. Having said that, let me also remind you of what you said later in your reply, namely that this is only a first step. It is true, it is a very first step, because the things that are proposed will not change the meaning of neither the culture nor the tourism of this country. Since, however, I have said that we have a different approach, so we recognize the good things that are being done, I want to begin this explanation of vote by saying that some positive things are in this decree, those that have caused a certain type of vote also in the Chamber of Deputies by the Forza Italia Group. I am referring to Article 1, with the tax credit for art bonus and with the simplifications from natural persons to companies and legal persons. Of course this is a positive aspect, as is the intervention on the Reggia di Caserta and the tax credit for accommodation and hotels (this, however, Minister, will not raise tourism, and we will talk about it). In short, there are some positive aspects that we stress, but then there are others that we do not like and that I would ask you to let me say briefly. With reference to the lyrical-symphonic foundations referred to in Article 5, when we voted on the Bray decree we said that we would vote on chronic assistantism for the last time: 75 million euros on that occasion, 200 million from the fund of the FUS, and in this decree 50 more are asked for lyrical-symphonic foundations. It's not good for us: it's true that there are plans, but you have to stop, because you can't always pay for Pants. I am still telling you that we are not happy with the source from which these resources are taken: it is true that this is a revolving fund, but these resources are taken from the money allocated to local authorities and the regions to pay the debts of the public administration. Today the question of trust has been raised by the government, but the economic data of the country - we all know - are dramatic, while your forecasts about GDP have been denied no later than a few days ago. Today there is an article about an important daily newspaper, the "Corriere della sera" which recalls the numbers, which have no political color, as you said in your reply: we cannot make them turn right or left, they are so. This is the situation: there are companies that close all over the country, and we take away 50 million euros. They would have needed them immediately, because the rotating fund presupposes the return of the figures; companies that are perhaps often small or medium-sized enterprises, of a fabric, such as that of the North-East, from which I come, where we no longer have the strength to move forward. Well, you take 50 million euros, but we are not told a word about the mayors of the cities to which the lyric-symphonic foundations in question belong, who were responsible for the same: do you want me to quote three, five or seven, such as Naples, Palermo or Florence? Too many resources are being given and too many have been given in the wrong way. Then let me talk about Pompeii. Minister Bray has created three structures or units, here a fourth is created. The general secretariat will then have twenty units: will it become a great wheelchair? Are there some positive aspects, which I pointed out earlier, but will this become a great coach or will we, again, become an assistant? We think the public administration needs to dry out. Another downside let me remind you of them. Article 7 still allocates resources for the fund "Mille giovani per la cultura" (thousand young people for culture), financed by the decree of doing: one million euros is allocated to 1,000 young people. Already Minister Bray's Decree-Law No 91 of 2013 was financed by the increase in excise duties; now, with this provision, money is taken away from companies. If we were told: "Make a sacrifice because we must invest in our young people," I would understand. But a million euros, Minister? Nothing for 1,000 young people. How can we give a positive judgment on this? Of course, it could be said that this is better than nothing; but if you said that resources must be increased and if this is the decree-law for the development of culture and the relaunch of tourism, how can you say that a million euros is all you can allocate to young people? Allow me one more word on tourism. I've heard so many speeches and so many good ideas, but we're here to vote for something, we're not here to say that we're going to do something nice for the future and that there's time. A decree comes in and a yes, a no or an abstention must be made. On tourism it is true that there is tax credit. These are positive actions, which we understand and appreciate; but I have not heard any figures on tourism. The recovery of tourism in France and Spain runs in a certain way; we do not run in the same way. It's the same example I used to give you about GDP. Economic recovery in some countries is going in a certain way. The President-in-Office of the Council said today that the whole of the eurozone is bad. Allow me to give you this example, Minister, because today you put the Government's trust in this decree, so we are not just discussing the text under consideration, but also trusting the Renzi Government, of which you are Minister. If the resumption of tourism in France and Spain proceeds with certain data, in Italy it proceeds with other data. Compared to tourism, I add that the first quarter of 2014 went worse than in the first quarter of 2013. It is true - and we remember this because we are correct people - that the fact that Easter is in April or March affects these figures; but the numbers that were remembered by colleagues are, from this point of view too, dramatic. From the world market share of 6.8 percent in 1997 to the share - reported by Bankitalia - of 3.7 percent in 2012. We will have to look for a way to recover, because if the decree is also for the re-launch of tourism, it will not be just because we do some small intervention on tax credits. You see, then, Minister, it is not that we are in trouble. We know that the tax credit for cinema (the tax credit for film companies) is a good thing; I have listed some positive things, but then there are many that do not go. Anyone who is a minority, as we are at the moment and in this Parliament, can try to intervene on something and knows that he must give up on something else. But the government once again puts confidence, at a distance - as has been mentioned previously - of a few days; another, further confidence, almost preventing even discussing the substance. You, Minister, told us to accept this decree, to understand the effort, because it is the first step. Thank you for your intellectual honesty, but then the reform of the MIBACT will have to come, which you announced and which - if I understood correctly, believing the voices coming from the newspapers - has already been blocked by the President of the Council of Ministers. You know how it is: you promised a reform a month: of work, of justice, of tax, of public administration. We haven't seen one. If the fifth is the reform of the MIBACT, and on this we are asked for confidence, once again the vote of the Forza Italia Group will be negative. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u111	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we finally come to the final vote on this Decree-Law No 83, which for the first time in our country wants to hold together, in a true harmonious body, culture and tourism. Maybe it's the first time. The decree, in fact, contains some strategic and structural interventions to support and promote the development of the cultural and tourist system. For many years we have been discussing the urgent need to adapt our country to the most advanced international standards, promoting private investment, simplifying bureaucracy, encouraging innovation, giving breath to cultural and creative production structures. Perhaps the most important intervention - which did not by chance give the name to the entire decree - is the one that introduces the art bonus, that is to say the possibility for individuals and companies to avail of a tax credit of 65 percent for the years 2014 and 2015 and 50 percent - that we hope can grow - for 2016 for the liberalities destined to some sectors of culture. Thanks to this measure, Italy places itself at the level of the most active and virtuous European countries in promoting the collaboration of private individuals in the protection of cultural heritage. Finally, a system of tax concessions is adopted for natural and legal persons who will donate money to interventions on cultural heritage and places of entertainment and culture. The decree introduces a simple mechanism of operation, both to encourage donors and to ensure maximum transparency. I now turn to Senator Marin: we in the Colosseum, in a phase of harsh political struggle, have actually given judgments that have not always been corrected. We welcome the intervention of private individuals in support of a national and collective effort to defend, enhance, support and relaunch our cultural heritage and there is no better demonstration of these intentions than a concrete act such as this decree, which we are going to convert today. For years the extreme complexity of the deduction system and the uncertainty on the part of donors to be able to actually access the deductions constituted a deterrent and sometimes an obstacle to the will of private individuals to intervene with their own resources for the benefit of Italian cultural heritage. From now on things will change, and they will change in a very substantial way. During the parliamentary process, an extension of the benefit was introduced to the liberalities, intended for persons who have in concession or in custody the objects of maintenance, protection and restoration of cultural objects. I say this in order to show that it is true that this decree will be voted with confidence today, but it is also true, as the rapporteur has pointed out on more than one occasion, that there has been an active parliamentary debate and that from the beginning, since the times have been compressed, the Parliamentarians of the Senate have been able to suggest amending interventions to colleagues in the House so that this text, the one we are voting on today, is the complex of a political will that has led to the improvement of the provision and this is very positive. I must also thank all the Members of this House for the debate today and the Members of the Commission who have always, as we have also seen in their interventions in the final phase of conversion, demonstrated their attachment to cultural heritage and a desire to relaunch an overall system between culture and tourism that can put our country system back in motion. We are not just talking about art bonuses, there are many issues within this decree. But what is most important to us is the fundamental question, that is, the express will, given on the occasion of the first confidence given to this Government and supported by President Renzi and Minister Franceschini, to bring back the attention and centrality of the activity of this Government with respect to culture, considered as a priority I would say almost ethical towards the whole world, but also as a great opportunity to relaunch the economic system. We then have interventions on audiovisual systems, in which there are innovations from the point of view of facilitated taxation and we certainly have an addition of EUR 50 million for the lyrical-symphonic foundations sector. This point has also been exploited: it is clear from today's debate that we are talking about revolving credit. Moreover, if the Government had not had the courage to give these additional 50 million euros, we would have risked making the previous 75 million made available by the Government Letta with the so-called Bray decree completely ineffective and probably useless, always with the logic of revolving credit. Therefore the lyric-symphonic foundations, thanks to today's contribution, can be finally and definitively healed, can be inserted in the virtuous circuit of the production of cultural activities that has made Italy famous in the world, but that must be managed in a different key, with a mechanism of synergies and co-productions that also allows the purpose of balance of the budget. Then there is the Pompei affair, Minister, a bet that Italy simply cannot afford to lose. The management of recent years has clarified the need to change the existing regulations so that the EUR 105 million made available by the European Union can be spent, to which is added the approximately 30 million that has made available to our Government to conclude the Grand Pompeii project; the Government has done well to introduce such changes within the decree because - I repeat - we cannot afford to lose Pompeii's bet. How can we not miss a new bet that has opened, that of the Reggia of Caserta, a wonderful palace, one of the two-three most beautiful of that era in Europe and that Italy has not been able to manage, harmonize and enhance as a great opportunity of towing. The Minister and the Government decided to intervene and they were right to do so. The same is true of tourism. Tourism and culture had been brought together with some controversy and until now, Minister, it had not been possible to make synergistic measures, to transform tourism so that it could take advantage of the proximity of culture, into a positive driving logic for our overall system. You have today had the courage to do so, to intervene on ENIT, to identify, promote and market tourist and cultural services and to invest in a new digitalization; this will be the new mission, more adapted to today's times and market. A first step has also been taken - I believe that this is the only way - in the direction of tax incentives to improve the supply and quality of tourism in our country, which I believe is an extremely important signal. We are therefore faced with an ambitious decree that wants to start designing our systems of culture and tourism, each within its own sphere but within a virtuous process of positive interaction and mutual influence. We need a more effective, more open, freer and plural cultural system. Perhaps it is not enough yet, perhaps we will have to do more; surely we must consider this decree not as a stage of arrival, but as a new departure, where the country, the government and Parliament are committed to relaunching their cultural and tourist system. It is not enough yet: the percentage of cultural spending is still far from enough; we have to believe it to the full, we have to ask for help from private individuals, as we are doing with this decree. The rebirth of our country must necessarily seize this great and unique opportunity. Our heritage and our cultural production cannot be archived as our past (among other things, a costly past): they are, must be and will be more and more our future, our hope and also - why not? - our competitive advantage. This government has understood it, we appreciate it and we support it with strength and tenacity. Let's go on this road. The Democratic Party, and therefore our Group, will vote in favour of this measure with enthusiasm and determination. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Panizza).]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to add an addition to my speech to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u112	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u113	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill no. 1563, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law no. 83, May 31, 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that, pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Finocchiaro, Calderoli, Caridi, Pizzetti and Di Giacomo. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Mattesini is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Mattesini. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. Yes, the senators answer: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello Berger, Bertuzzi, White, White, Bilardi, Bonaiu, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Caridi, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagna, Conte, Corsini, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Di Giorgi, Dirinciano, D'Onghiacca Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbari, Fasiolo, Fattari, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Fiinsssore, Fornaigoni, Fornai, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Faziori, Faziori, Fazio, Fanti, Fas, Fazio, Fazio, Fasiolo, Fasiolo, Fasiolo, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fasi, Fazi, Fazio Senators say no: Airola, Alberti Casellati, Amoruso, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bisinella, Blondo, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagnone, Consiglio, Cotti D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, Divina, Donno Fazzone, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Giro, Girotto Lezzi, Girotto Lezzi, Liuzzi, Longo Eva Malan, Mandelli, Mangili, Marin, Martelli, Marteoli, Mauro Giovanni, Messina, Milo, Minzolini, Molinzolini, Molinari, Pelliari, Monteverpofanari, Montevolini, Montevolini, Morone, Morone, Morone, Morone, Morone, Malano, Malano, Malano, Malano, Malano, Malano, Malano, Malano, Mandelani, Malan, Mandelini, Mandelini, Malano, Malani, Mandela, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malina, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malini, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malani, Malini, Malini, Malini, Malini PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill no. 1563, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law no. 83, of 31 May 2014, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorables 159 Contrari 90]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 83 are therefore precluded or absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u116	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I am from Campania, from the Province of Naples and I am a portico. This morning in Portici something happened that should never happen in a civil society: a 75-year-old man, Mariano Bottari, to whose family goes all our moral support, was killed on the street, on a normal day, on the way home after shopping. On his way home, he found himself in the middle of a shooting of scooter drivers chasing each other. I would ask the Presidency to speak to the Prefect of Naples to take immediate action to deal with these incidents, which are also multiplying in the Municipality of Portici. I call for strong intervention by the prefect, who represents the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u119	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, I too am speaking on the facts of Portici as a member of the Anti-Mafia Commission. Today in Portici a 75-year-old man was killed, Mariano Bottari, a few meters from his home. Bottari was an ordinary citizen, he did not belong to any camorristic clan and was killed, according to the law enforcement authorities, by accident. Two scooters were chasing each other, probably for a settlement of accounts, and a large-caliber coup that accidentally struck Mr. Bottari was exploded. This is not the first time that such things have innocent people as their victims. I remember Pasquale Romano, Silvia Ruotolo, Antonio Landieri, Ciro Rossetti and many others. That of Portici is a very serious fact, unacceptable for a civilized country. Constitutional reforms are important, Mr President, but I believe that they cannot and should not paralyse a country. [[Applause from Senators Puglia and Bulgarelli]] These facts need an immediate response from politics and the President-in-Office of the Council, if we want the fight against the mafias not to be relegated to proclamations alone. There is an urgent need to send important signals to the Camorra, to make it clear to the clans that their game is lost, that the State will defeat them, that we will extend the terms of the prescription, we will better manage the confiscated property, we will return to send cops to the police stations and that all politics is with the anticamorra mayors, like Renato Christmas, and that we will win and the Camorra will lose. This is the most important reform. It therefore announces a parliamentary question on this subject. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u122	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, distinguished colleagues, the 5 Star Movement sent an application, more than two months ago, to the Mayor of Verona Flavio Tosi (ex Articles 216 and 217 of the single text of health laws), to take measures to suspend and transfer a technically unhealthy first class industrial plant. The plant is inside a town. The activity produces exhalations of benzene and PAHs (aromatic cytotoxic hydrocarbons), as well as other unhealthy substances. The European Union states that there is no minimum threshold below which exposure to these fumes is not dangerous (we are talking about carcinogenic substances): it means that there is no threshold below which we can be safe. Therefore, regardless of the emission limits imposed by the territorial authorities and/or by the laws, but still violated, in the case of Veneta Bitumi Srl the problem is that the population has been exposed for 34 years to fumes of unhealthy substances. The mayor's measures are due, not only in accordance with the precautionary principle, but also in compliance with the hygiene regulation in force in the local authority itself. The ARPAV in 34 years of exhalation performed only two checks; even a child would understand that they are laughing and facade. No reply from the mayor has yet been received from the local M5S group or nationality on the application submitted. The coexistence between inhabitants and quarry has never been easy. The situation has deteriorated in recent years. The first citizen, the highest guarantor of citizens' health - do we want to call them second citizens? - you can't keep avoiding answering. The plant has a series of serious anomalies; one on all the fireplace from which the emissions of fumes come, which is located at the level of the country floor; which means that the houses, but above all the people are completely enveloped by the fumes because roads and pavements are at the same level. Compared to the anomalies reported in the request received in April 2014, why did the mayor not intervene, asking for clarifications in the preliminary phase to the competent bodies, at the point of issue of the new authorization? [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The responsibility for what happened and could happen is Flavio Tosi. To date, the only response received from the environment office of the Municipality of Verona is the request for names of private families to be asked when they receive reports. But should it not be the institution that oversees citizens? The 5 Star Movement has no intention of watching and is in fact questioning experts. I myself will ask a question on this matter. [[Applause from Senator Bertorotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u125	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would like to express in this House all the condolences we owe to the family of this citizen of Portici, who has left the innocent blood of yet another victim of camorra on the road. Mariano Bottari was a pensioner who cared for his wife, a disabled woman, and this morning, like many others, he went out for grocery shopping. Therefore, he was not in the wrong place at the wrong time; he was in the place where every citizen must and can stand: the road. The problem of why you are not sure on the street is not a problem of Mariano Bottari, who left us the skin and shed more innocent blood on our roads, but of how we protect the safety of our citizens in our streets. I would like to say this to Senator Puglia - of whom I am honored to have the same citizenship, being also a portico citizen like me - and to my colleague Ricchiuti: that is a city that has great profiles of civilization, that lives of culture and for some time has been trying to live also of tourism. Well, compared to these investments made over time there was no corresponding investment by the state. One cannot imagine protecting security with a public safety station that has competence over two cities, Portici and Herculaneum, both over 50,000 inhabitants and attract many people from the neighbouring municipalities, with a single steering wheel of public security that makes the nights and maybe must run between the two cities and cannot follow either our city of Portici or that of Herculaneum. If we want to avoid always expressing our condolences, which we must at these times, and if we want to invest more on our roads and on our citizens, we need more investment in security. Then the tragic chance will never directly assume the responsibility of some, but it will certainly make the conscience tranquil, that our duty as legislators and men of government have done it to the end. I would like my parliamentary group and all the parliamentary groups in this Senate to cling to the necessary condolences that we owe to Mariano Bottari's family and to the entire Porticese and Neapolitan community, which is once again hit hard and, unfortunately, once again, leaves on our streets the blood shed by an innocent victim of camorra, which is the real tumor that we must eradicate from the body of our society, in which we believe and to which we must respect and above all measures. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u126	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-293.ana.u127	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday 29 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.35 p.m.
