ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 8 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u4	Montevecchi (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (11:06 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u8	I communicate that on 12 May 2014 the following bill was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, by the Minister of Economic Development and by the Minister of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 73 of 12 May 2014, introducing urgent measures for the extension of Commissioners for the completion of public works" (1479).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u9	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly INCE is convened on Wednesday 14 May 2014, at 8 p.m., at the Senate of the Republic, room 14th Commission (politics of the European Union), to proceed to the election of the President. I also communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO is convened on Wednesday 14 May 2014, at 8 p.m., in the Chamber of Deputies, Palazzo Valdina, Sala Soprachiesa, to proceed to the election of the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u10	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1413, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 8 May the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general discussion took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u12	On what, Senator Buccarella?.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u13	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, as has already been forwarded to the Presidency yesterday on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group, we formalise the request for examination in the Chamber, pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Senate Rules of Procedure, of draft law No 847, amending the penal code in the matter of corruption, concussion and abuse of office. This is obviously a political initiative that we are addressing to all the forces present in this House, since the emergency that reports it, not only that of the last few days and weeks but of the last few years, has made it necessary for policy to take a clear and clear position. We therefore ask...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u14	Senator Buccarella, I'm sorry, we've accepted your request, but I'd be grateful if you could explain it after the replies. This would allow for an effective start to be made in line with the agenda and would then move on to your request and subsequent speeches. Therefore, Senator Buccarella, I will give you the floor again at the end of the replies of the rapporteur and the Government. I now call the rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u15	Mr President, I believe that what we had in this House last Thursday was a useful debate, which today makes it possible to clarify some of the aspects highlighted by various speeches. After listening to the debate, I continue to think that what we are about to vote on is a useful and necessary measure, particularly for the issues of the house. But I want to say more. Without emphasis, I would like to stress that since 1998, that is since the day that GESCAL contributions have been cancelled in this country, this is the first legislation that tries to introduce public policies that take into account that the model with which it is possible to deal with the housing emergency, that in Italy is relevant and has become more acute with the crisis: an emergency for which the traditional response of the public, that had been built with funds GESCAL and that translated into the construction of the large popular districts, is insufficient today and does not work anymore. Public policies must be put in place, aware of the need to innovate. The decree-law in question puts in place useful interventions that go in this direction. In particular, it is a decree-law that insists very much on the need to create the conditions for so many of the existing housing in this country, whether private or public property, that remain empty, to be made available to citizens and those who need it at canons contained. The measure contains the lowering of the dry coupon from 15 to 10% to encourage owners, the allocation of 500 million for municipalities and regions to settle the thousands of empty public housing that paradoxically remain unused while there is a housing emergency, as well as the forecast of the need to involve public capital in the construction of housing that must be given for rent at Calmerate fees, social housing for citizens who need it. Finally, according to the Commission's decision, the measure offers the opportunity to find new resources exclusively for the acquisition or construction of new housing, resources which will have to come from the sale of part of the public heritage. The latter rule has been called into question by a number of speakers. In this regard, I want to stress one point: there are already many Regions that through Sales Plans dispose of their assets, and they do so without rules. Well, today we are voting for an article which states very clearly that those who sell public assets must do so exclusively in order to have resources to be allocated only to the construction of new popular housing, and that such housing can only be sold to tenants. This is important, because there are regions that think that selling the assets serves to repay the budgets, and if we do not choose to devote that money very clearly to creating new housing opportunities we really risk what many have feared. And I would add: the theme of public housing is an important issue, but we have to face reality. It is not true that if we do not sell or give the possibility of acquiring public housing from tenants we will have more accommodation to be allocated to those who do not have the house today. That is not the case, because we know very well that, in this country, people entering public housing live there all their lives. There is no such thing as mobility. So if we want to build a law that imposes mobility, let's do it, but today the reality is another. The reality is that those who enter a popular accommodation stay there until the end of their lives. It is not true that that accommodation remains at the disposal of those who do not have the house. So let us say: well, let us take note and try to attract resources by also encouraging the purchase, with an appropriation that allows to reduce the mortgages by one percentage point. The other issue that I want to put to the attention, on which much has been discussed, is the following. I think we are building a law that says to the owners and the public: make all the apartments available to deal with the housing emergency. We encourage you to build conditions so that there are charges that are accessible to citizens; we lower taxes. We ask you for an effort, but in view of this commitment by the Government and Parliament to intervene and spend to increase and give more opportunity to find a home to those who do not have it today, I believe that we must say to the owners (but also to the IACP, to the ALER, to those who manage the public heritage) one thing: against this, it must be clear that abuse and illegality are not acceptable. We cannot say that, since there is a housing emergency, everything is allowed: everything is not allowed. Abbusivism is wrong: to squash a popular home means to take it away from those who have the right because it is in the ranking; it means to remove the possibility of exercising their right. [[Applause from Senators Moscardelli and Saggese]] To remove the property from an owner or to put an owner in a position to live the uncertainty regarding the possibility of holding his property means not favoring the willingness to rent it. For this reason, I believe that the anti-abbusivism rules are also particularly important (I share this thing that some have said), at a time when, for the first time, I repeat, since 1998, policies have been put in place to give more housing, to concretely resolve the problems of citizens and to put the municipalities and the regions in the position to give answers to those who do not have the house today. Having said that, I think we have an important opportunity today to adopt a useful and concrete measure, which, in the short term - because this is the work we have done in the Commission - can give concrete answers. I want to make this clear: there is no line in this provision where there are favours for banks or insurance: here we are only trying to guarantee the rights of citizens, and to do so also with attention to environmental issues and to the care of the territory. This measure speaks of new constructions only to say that we must break down and rebuild; that we must reuse the built; that we must defend the ground; that there must be no further consumption of soil; that everything that must be done, must be done guaranteeing energy efficiency and energy saving; that money must also be invested for this, as well as to give a home and, from this point of view, a model is changed: the model of the popular neighborhoods, built with the lowest possible costs, that after a few years, in many realities, have been left in the conditions that many of us know, namely the degradation. I think that the house regulation is an important regulation, just as it is important that this legislation sets out an open issue, that of the enhancement of specialisms in interventions that require great technical skills and innovation. Finally, I think it is also important, at a difficult time like today, to support the effort that the City of Milan is making to realize the Expo. This is done by guaranteeing part of the funding to ensure the maintenance of the city during that period and to derogate not from the contracts, but from a series of rules of the spending review that, exempted, allow us to use the funds of fines, part of the funds deriving from the urbanization burden to fix the green and the city without further constraints. In short, thank you for the debate. I am convinced that the amendments adopted by the Commission can further improve the text presented by the Government and I still thank all those who, apart from the positions adopted in this House, have helped the Commission to build, in my view, legislation that is born with the contribution of the whole Parliament, and not just the majority. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u16	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak briefly because I recognise the rapporteur's words and only to underline how profound and considerable the work carried out by the Joint Commissions has been. Many of the amendments and many of the proposals made there have been collected; they will be entitled to citizenship in the decree or they will be entitled to citizenship in the form of agendas to support housing policies. I remember in particular - I like to do so because the Government shares that position - the database on public housing assets, which we will probably discuss in the form of an amendment and which also has the government's placet. I would like to make three points, which have been the basis for the preparatory work of the text. Firstly, the conviction that profoundly changes the home market, for two reasons in particular. In fact, there is no longer a living residence for many Italians; what was considered a stable, fixed stay, linked to a proverb that has made Italy different from many other European countries, has now become, I don't know if a goal, however no longer a fixed term but a sort of exception, and it will become even more so. By now the movement is not only within the state borders, but we move inside and outside the national borders, and this leads to a different approach to buying, for example, the house. The second of the novelties, also this stable, lies in a different conception of the role and rite of the typology of the family. Many are families of different nature than the Italian one typical of the fifties, sixties and seventies and this also causes a different reaction compared to the market of the house. Second consideration: there is confirmation that, when action is taken for building recovery and when action is taken in the form of measures relating to energy saving, there is the consideration that, by activating a series of bonuses, it is also possible to move the market. With the bonuses in the construction sector put in place in 2013, the economic assessment of the financial movement induced is about 28-29 billion euros. If the House shares the framework, the framework within which this decree moves for the home, then it will be possible to activate new money, which will be put into circulation and will be able to definitely put in motion again important parts of the national economy. The third consideration underlying the decree is the confirmation, already emphasized by the rapporteur, of the inadequacy of the offer of rented houses and housing that have the characteristics of public housing, i.e. housing of a social nature. The decree tries to answer these questions, first of all from the point of view of housing hardship, according to the chain of criteria that have already been examined in this House, as well as in many of the interventions that have prepared today's conclusions, as well as through fiscal measures that have already been mentioned. I hope and hope that the House will also confirm the excellent nature of what is provided for in the form of mobile bonuses, and I would like to refer here - in my words already echoed during the debate in this House - to the positive statements of those who consider it appropriate to fight against illegal employment because they are adversely affected by rights acquired by those who very often, if not always, are in the same condition as those who occupy an asset such as, in this particular case, the home. Finally, I would like to recall the work that will be carried out by a technical table which will be convened shortly - it has already met twice, and the next meeting will be held tomorrow - which will have to examine the profound revision of the Procurement Code and the Code for Contracts, wiping out the number of articles and providing for legislation that will ensure the greatest possible clarity and transparency. I believe that, if we managed to maintain a convergence and synergy between this measure, on the one hand (which inaugurates - I hope - a season of new interventions related to public housing, with a particular attention therefore to the house market seen by those in need) and a review of the world of contracts, contracts and services, at the end of this road we would have done an excellent service for the public good. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u18	I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u19	We greet the students and students of the secondary school "Francesco Bagno" in Cesa, in the province of Caserta, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr President. As I mentioned earlier, yesterday we sent to the presidency of the Senate our request, formulated pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, for the text of the bill No 847, which amends the penal code in the matter of concussion, corruption and abuse of office, to be put into question and put to the vote at an early date. It is a draft law which, together with others, is already formally under discussion in the Commission on justice within the framework of that package of measures, which essentially relate to draft law No 19 (with the first signatory, among other things, President Grasso himself), which aims to regulate a number of subjects of the penal code that go, as is well known in most of the House, from self-recycling to the effective re-introduction of the crime of fraud in the budget and to the modification of the crimes of concussion, corruption and other. Let us move forward as a political signal to the other political forces in this House. In the light of recent events that have affected the Expo of Milan (but not only those, in fact), there is the need for the so-called policy to give a concrete and immediate response, so that the fight against corruption, the evildoing and the excessive proximity (if not even the complementary complicity) of part of the world of politics and parties to the worst lobbying and the worst private interests of large enterprises (if not even of criminal organisations) receive a response and have not once again been forced to read, think or say that it is only the judiciary that helps, replacing the legislative power and in any case the politics as a whole, in providing the actual answers that this country needs to try to scale the international rankings (which, as is well known, see Italy positioned, in the area of administrative transparency and corruption, always in rather backward positions). I do not think it is necessary to explain the reasons, the reason for this need, which is well known to all. That Rule of the Rules of Procedure allows this House, after a vote, to comply with this request. Of course, since our aims are obviously pragmatic, it would be good to schedule even not immediately and not today. We are also aware of the fact that the calendar of the Senate provides for contingency times, from the point of view of the Government, for the conversion of decrees-laws. However, we believe that it is appropriate to give us the opportunity to schedule the debate on that draft law in the Chamber in a short time. We have chosen precisely that because it has a very simple structure; it is not a measure that requires particular insights, debates and dialectical comparisons in the Commission, as well as we are doing fruitfully in the Commission, even with hearings of particular importance. It is a very simple structure, which aims only to increase the penalties for certain offences and to recognize the person in charge of public service as a person punishable, together with the public official, for the facts of concussion. There is also provision for an increase in punishment for concussion offences, for types of corruption by official act and also for acts contrary to official duties. It is, therefore, a very simple structure; a simple reading by any member of this House can take into account whether or not they wish to quickly, concretely and meaningfully influence it, in order to start giving answers to the public opinion of this country. So we think we have a great opportunity to start giving an answer. In the Commission we will then continue the work we are doing, within the framework of that set of rules finally aimed at regulating virtuously and punishing and sanctioning as all other criminal and criminal conduct deserves. So it does not interfere, from our point of view, with the work being done in the Commission and does not harm it. This is our appeal, and it is the political signal that we want to send out, doing well - we believe - our role and bringing to this House the will and pressure of public opinion, which outside and outside of these Palaces strongly urges that, compared to what we are forced to read every day, the word "just" may have parliamentary concreteness. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u25	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak to say that I fully agree with the request made by Senator Buccarella now. I believe that he has highlighted a requirement shared by the entire Senate House. We have a duty to give a clear answer, within the framework of our competences (i.e. a legislative response), to this very serious issue which once again emerges in a dramatic way in our country: the spread of corruption. President, the events of the Universal Exhibition of Milan are very serious for the crimes that the public accusation has identified and also for the network of reports of evil that emerge from the first admissions and from the first information that is disseminated by the media of our country. I think the Senate has a duty to give an answer. We must bring to the Chamber the issue of corruption on which, as we know, numerous draft laws have been presented; one was presented by the 5 Star Movement, as Senator Buccarella recalled now, but I would like to remind you that the first in time and the deepest and widest are those presented by the Democratic Party Group (one bears the first signature of President Grasso: the President signed it in the few days preceding his election to the Senate Presidency). We must make great efforts. Mr President, I would ask you to bring together the Conference of Leaders as soon as possible to determine this timetable and to do so as President Buccarella has indicated: we must bring this matter to the House as soon as possible and we must make this timetable compatible with the requirements of the next few days when the Senate is called to convert three decree-laws. Of course, we must also ask the Commission to do everything we can to complete the work of the inquiry. We know that measures and issues of this complexity, if they arrive in this Chamber without the Commission having completed the examination or without the appointment of a rapporteur, make the work of this House very difficult and often produce a very relative success. These three objectives can be all three contemporaneous. In order to get to work on this in a very short time, we could schedule the subject in the first group leaders that you will consider convening for the next few days and weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u28	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have listened carefully to both President Buccarella and President Zanda's speech. In order to clear the field of any possible misunderstanding, possibly even more instrumental at this particular time, I would like to point out to the House that the draft law No 19 on anti-corruption was drawn up in the Commission immediately and that on 5 June 2013, the rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola, carried out the related report. At the same time, the draft law on 416-b, which was the subject of Article 3 of Law No 19, was incardinated in the Chamber of Deputies. Subsequently, on 17 July 2013, the parent company in the Justice Commission of the 5 Star Movement, Senator Cappelletti, requested a meeting of the bill n. 19 of all other bills dealing with the same matter or similar matter. There is no point in reminding you, Mr President, that you have received a timely report from me on the matter, that in the second half of 2013 the Commission was occupied with the so-called second prison-empty measure and that for about two months it was blocked by reason of the budgetary session. In any event, in January 2014, in particular on 16 January 2014, the rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, carried out the report on all the measures brought together in draft law No 19. Needless to say, as the Commission's work reports show, on more than one occasion the speaker called on the Commission to speed up work on the various draft legislation on corruption. However, there was a problem when Senator D'Ascola, rapporteur for the measure, suffered an accident. However, this did not prevent the Commission from proceeding in the general discussion, which was declared closed on 5 March 2014, with the rapporteur's mandate to identify a basic text, or to draw up a unified text. In the Bureau, it was also agreed to hold hearings with President Greco, President Garofoli and Professor Fiandaca, chairmen of committees which, for one verse or another, touched on the subject of the various draft laws in full or in part. A record that while it was possible to audit President Greco and President Garofoli, it was not possible to audit Professor Fiandaca, who, for one reason or another, has always manifested his unwillingness. I should also like to add, Mr President and Senators, that it has always been agreed in the Bureau, waiting for the imminent occurrence, to wait for the hearing of the Minister of Justice in order to have light on the possible initiatives he intended or intended to take with regard to the matter of this and, in particular, with regard to self-recycling, which is part of the last title of Law No 19. On that occasion, the Minister of Justice announced the Government's intention to present a draft law on self-cycling and was invited by the President and the Commission as a whole to consider whether the draft law should be initiated by the Senate of the Republic and not by the Chamber of Deputies, precisely because of the identity, albeit partial, of the subject of the government initiative with what had already been discussed by the Justice Commission; this debate, as I have already said, had already been declared closed. I say for the sake of completeness of the exhibition that, in the meantime, while these jurisdictions were in progress, it has been registered in the Bureau of Presidency and also in the Commission, by Senator Cappelletti of the 5 Star Movement, the request to bring together to the draft laws already dealt with the bill in the matter of false social communications, n. 868, at the first signature of Senator Buccarella. This request has been accepted, but has not yet been fulfilled, for the reasons already mentioned by the rapporteur. I would like to inform the House that, at today's sitting, the rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, who replaces the rapporteur, will make the report on draft law No 868; then the need to identify the basic text, i.e. to draw up the unified text, will be stressed, so that the amending phase can be opened. This is, in summary, what happened in the Commission. With regard to President Buccarella's request, supported by President Zanda, as desumable by the Commission's Stenographic Reports, there is no objection on the part of the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group to speed up work on the various draft laws, in particular those relating to the issue of corruption intended to be on the sensu side, alas came back of interest in the light of the latest events. I know perfectly well that this assessment will have to be made by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups, and I am therefore referring to it, specifying and reaffirming that the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group is in full agreement with what Presidents Buccarella and Zanda have said. As President of the Commission, however, I would like to represent two circumstances. The first is that if, in the meantime, the Government adopts a bill on money laundering and, if it were to pass it on to the House of Deputies, we could find ourselves in the situation of proceeding to the Senate on the basis of the basic and unified text, including the crime of autocycling, with an overlap with the House. I therefore believe that there should be a minimum link between the Senate institution - which is still alive - and the Government. The second point, Mr President, which I would like to put to your attention has already been mentioned by President Zanda in his speech: it is, however, to imagine a time, clearly not long, that will allow the Commission to complete its work quickly (Mr President, we are now at the stage of amendment) so that we can reach the House with the rapporteur. On a measure of this kind, this delicacy and this difficulty, I think it is absolutely necessary that there is the rapporteur, even for an exquisitely political reason. In fact, I would not like the absence of the rapporteur to allow greater variables and this absence could then be used as a justification for the variability of majorities. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u31	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, the New Centro-Rextra Group shares Mr Buccarella's need to ensure that this House has as soon as possible the opportunity to examine measures designed to strengthen cleanliness and sanctions in relation to certain diseases that still appear to occur in public administration behaviour. The survey of the works for the Universal Exhibition raises an understandable social alarm, in the time of the long crisis. We must hope, on the one hand, that even more reliable elements will be produced as soon as possible with regard to investigations and, on the other hand (as the President-in-Office said), that the works can continue and that Italy can arrive at the appointment of the Universal Exposition in the best possible conditions. It is certainly essential to prevent the formation of disturbance in public auctions. Even more in a time of crisis, everyone must have a concrete perception of equal opportunities in the public works market. In short, we agree with the need to speed up the examination of measures the state of which has now described to us the President of the Commission. I spoke to Senator D'Ascola a moment ago, who had a trivial impediment that did not allow him to be here (he would have taken the floor in my place): he tells me to report that he is ready with the basic text and that he will be able to arrive in time for the work of the Commission. At the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups we will have to consider the most appropriate ways of carrying out a careful examination, based on the work of the Commission, but at the same time also timely and compatible with the obvious priority of converting decree-laws into law. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u34	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group also strongly supports the proposal made by Senator Buccarella and the notes raised. I would also like to thank Senator Palma for wanting us to represent the state of the art of the measures that are being considered in the Commission. With regard to this proposal, I believe that giving an immediate signal, through the Conference of Leaders, also outside the immediate concern that the Senate addresses to this subject would be the best solution. I would like to make a brief comment by addressing my colleagues who will be working on the proposals for legislation, including the one you have signed directly, Mr President. You know, Mr President, that something has changed in the quality and levels of corruption. I believe that special attention should be paid in the course of the debate, which I hope will take place as soon as possible, to the clear shift that has been made there (from the acts and the case-law that has once again flooded us) from a political level to a functional one. Compared to the 1990s, in which there was the first shift in responsibility, or the first division of responsibility, between the political levels and the levels of direct management of public administrations, the level of corrupt or concussive activity has often been removed. I therefore believe that, in the context of the work that the Commissions will be carrying out on this particular subject, particular attention will have to be paid to identifying the places of responsibility, which are often no longer political, so much so that corruption actions - as the latest acts show - have moved towards managerial positions within the public administration. As a member of the Commission, I did not allow myself to stress these aspects, although I believe that my colleagues already know that. We hope, in accordance with the proposal put forward by Mr Buccarella, that as soon as possible a meeting of the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups will be convened so that the attention which the whole Senate devotes to this issue can be felt from the outside.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u37	IN MAY (PI). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of Senator Buccarella's request, which is shared by all the leaders, to bring to your attention a motion which I would have liked to raise at the end of the sitting, of course. I believe, however, that the subject is so important that it is worth considering now. I find the statements made by Undersecretary Delrio almost paradoxically true when he says that politics has nothing to do with these facts, but this denunciation dramatically that, perhaps, twenty years have passed in vain, if it is true, that we find faces and faces already known twenty years ago. I therefore believe that it is very important - and I am asking you, Mr President - that the President of the Council should come and report back to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u40	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to join in the demands of my fellow Members, who seem to me to be relevant, also from the point of view of the Mixed Group and the Left Ecology and Freedom. There is an absolute need for the Senate, quickly, to intervene on the matter and to follow up on the work that has already been routed to the Justice Commission, also because it is a matter of giving signals to the country and to a public opinion which, of course, is dismayed by what is happening. As you know, Mr President, I have been insisting for many months on the need for the national Parliament to be able to actually give political signals that can help to recover the climate which, unfortunately, has become very complicated throughout all these years, between politics, institutions and public opinion. Of course, since I think that this attitude can lead to a political problem of great seriousness within our country, I hope that Parliament can quickly express itself and proceed. Ours, therefore, is an adherence to the demands that have been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u43	CAMPANELLA (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to join in the request by Senator Di Maggio, for what is the quality of the facts that have come to everyone's attention through the news, it is appropriate for the President of the Council to report to this House, in order to assess the level of knowledge that the Government has acquired about them and what kind of solution it intends to take.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u46	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in line with the demands of our fellow Members, we too believe that the process of approving this measure should be speeded up, and that we are also aware of the fact that a number of measures have already been taken in the Commission and also in this House concerning related matters. Therefore, it is desirable that the Commission should speed up, but also that the House should pay particular attention to the issues that the Commission has defined and which are waiting to be examined. The urgency of the measure on corruption and fake in the budget is clear, but we must not forget that the system needs further reforms and changes that have long been waiting for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u49	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, over the past few days there has been a great deal of discussion (but outside the Chamber, and that is why I think it is right to inform this House) about a very sensitive issue, which is precisely the work of the Senate, namely the question of the technical assessments being made on the measures being taken by this House. I refer in particular to the decree concerning the IRPEF, the tax bonus and other related matters, which has been the subject of serious controversy. In recent days the President-in-Office of the Council, and I quote from "Il Fatto" on 4 May, said: The senate technicians against me for revenge. Then, on 9 May, he reiterated: The Senate's forecasts of the cover for the IRPEF decree are technically false. The evening before, again the President of the Council Renzi, had said: "The technicians of the Senate said false things." Statements that can then be found in other interviews and statements, which I do not quote for short time. This has led to controversy, and I and other members of the Senate have defended the technical assessments. I would also like to reiterate here that there is nothing to do with the defence of the Senate as such, which must be abolished or reformed, on the basis of what will be discussed (I am personally on very advanced and innovative positions); however, it has been attempted to pass technical observations as a self-defense of the Senate: not even of the parliamentarians, but of the technical structures, whose correctness has been protected and reiterated, after the controversy that has seen me, Senator Calderoli and other protagonists, with the statements of the President of the Senate, to which I acknowledge that I have then intervened in the defence of technical assessments. Personally, I also appreciated the invitation from President Grasso to maintain this debate in an institutional and political context and not to invest other fora. Therefore, in this very sense, having accepted the invitation of the President of the Senate, I believe that intervening at least here is appropriate, since we do not intend to invest any more. The Budgetary Committee will then continue its examination and, moreover, I have seen that it has also unanimously agreed on a number of points. Perhaps the President-in-Office of the Council has not been informed that Deputy Minister Morando - as can be seen from the Commission's budget reports some nights ago - has shared, together with the Members of all the Groups, that I do not quote, speakers in the Commission, a number of observations, which I am not here to explain since they will be discussed by the 5th Commission and the House when we are on the agenda, considering them to be appropriate. However, I would like to note that only yesterday evening the minister of the Padoan economy - I say this for completeness of summary - made acceptable comments stating that the government will give information to the Senate. He therefore defended the measure in a typical, normal way of a Minister of the Economy, because when technical observations are made, counter-deductions, adjustments can then be found. After all, the theme of the covers obsesses us and we are busy. How many measures have been blocked in the course of work also for Quirinale's observations? In my brief parliamentary experience, I have witnessed the cancellation or addition of amendments, even in inappropriate locations, in the passage of measures between the House and the Senate. Therefore, that the themes of coverage are complex and that the truth is not only in the possession of some, there is no doubt, but while last night Minister Padoan made a polite observation and on the substance of the matter, the statement of the President of the Council on the falseness of the evaluations of the Senate is unacceptable and intolerable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PI Groups.]] I believe that this must be said, not so much and not only in defence of the officials who have made observations and who will make them to the rapporteur and to those who follow the measure, but in defence of the Senate as a whole, because the Senate can also be abolished, but the truth is not: this, perhaps, must understand the exuberant President of the Council. Personally, then, I hope that not 80, but 800, 8000 euros will be removed from the tax levy of employees, self-employed, pensioners, of anyone, but provided that the figures exist. However, I do not want to go into the matter, because I am intervening on the order of business, and I thank the President for allowing me to do so. In other places, I will add further arguments. I thank the President of the Senate for his speech, I welcome his call to maintain, as I am doing, this issue in an institutional, parliamentary and political context, but I hope that those who must defend their measures will do so in a correct manner and not accusing the Senate and its structures of lying, because this is not acceptable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u52	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would have avoided speaking if this matter had not been introduced. However, in addition to what President Gasparri has just said, I recall that last week, in relation to three different national newspapers, quoted and with a request for denial by the person concerned, a statement was made by President Renzi in which he defined the approval of an agenda in the Commission as follows: "A tangle... approved an agenda of zero value. After a week, I have not received any denials, and having been requested in an official forum it is understood that this has actually been done. I am frankly saying that for voting on an act of direction which I proposed, although in disagreement with the position expressed by the Government, I do not intend to be cowardiced by Renzi or anyone else. I fulfilled my mandate as a senator and, since there was also a majority, I must have been convincing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Compared to the remarks made by President Gasparri, I denounce the absolute gravity of what has been said in those words, because officials, understood as such or as an institution, are public officials, are public officials, and therefore the phrase that is reported to them is a crime: they would have committed a crime of abuse, omission, however a crime. Overcoming this aspect too - which I do not know why I did not follow directly the work of the Budget Committee, but I have always had proof of the intellectual honesty of Deputy Minister Morando - if that rule, as the Budget Service says is discovered, the going on television to show on May 5 a candle that will be given on May 27, seems an attempt to sell the bear's skin before taking it. If these EUR 80 will actually be paid out - and the EUR 80 will well come, which I hope will be given to everyone - but they are discovered, this means making public debt and putting on the shoulders of all Italian citizens what someone is using to campaign. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Maran and Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u55	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I should like to speak briefly. First of all, I hope that sooner or later we will be able to identify the significance of the request to speak in this House on the order of business. We're gonna have to work this out. In fact, we have just heard two speeches, by Senator Gasparri and Senator Calderoli, of a political nature, on political facts and with political judgments that have nothing to do with the order of the proceedings of this sitting. We must therefore agree to ensure that Parliament does not become a place in which those who have an idea get up, ask for the floor and get it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] because there is an Rule of the Rules of Procedure which provides for statements on the order of business. What does Senator Gasparri's intervention have to do with the order of business? I don't know, nor do I know what Senator Calderoli's intervention has to do with it. With regard to the substance of the matter, what Senator Gasparri refers to is a measure approved by the Council of Ministers, signed by the President of the Republic and boiled by the General Accounting Office of the State. Until there is a proven test, which I have not seen so far, that measure has cover, because in our order this is expected, and so it has been. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the agenda, for the friendship relations I have with Senator Calderoli, I would like to remind you that an agenda is an agenda and we owe a great deal to the agenda approved in the first Commission, as we owe it to all the agendas approved in the Commission and in this House. However, it has the value that our order attaches to the agendas, a value which, of course, is different from that attributed to the approval of amendments and legal texts in the Commission and in the Chamber. It's different. So, with great respect, we keep everything in the area of relativity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u56	Colleagues, given the importance of the provision on corruption and the topicality of the topic I immediately summon the Conference of the Leaders to decide the calendar in view of the coming days and the post-election period.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u59	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank you, and then, if the subject is what we have just discussed, I would ask you, if you consider it appropriate, to convene the President of the Commission Justice at this Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u60	The President of the Commission has already explained everything he has to say. Since the Conference of Leaders will also discuss other topics, its presence should be limited, and I do not think so. Thank you, but I think that if we need clarification, we will be able to summon him from the group leader. The sitting shall be suspended until the meeting of the Conference of Leaders has been completed. (The sitting was suspended at 12.10 a.m. and resumed at 13.14 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u61	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current calendar and the new timetable until 5 June 2014. In order to allow the conclusion by this week of the examination of the decree-laws on housing emergency, drug addiction and the regular running of the school service, three single sessions are planned - starting today - without closing hours and with possible suspensions put back to the evaluation of the Presidency, in relation to the progress of the work and the activities of the committees functional to the same work of the Assembly. The ratifications of international agreements already scheduled are postponed to the week from 27 to 29 May, while the inspection union will take place, if possible, on the afternoon of Thursday 15, with timetables to be defined in relation to the progress of the work on the aforementioned decrees-laws. In the light of the conclusion of the examination of emergency measures, the Assembly will not hold its session in the week preceding the European and administrative elections on 25 May, while the Commissions will be able to convene in relation to the requirements of the respective work programmes. In the week from 27 to 29 May, in addition to the above-mentioned ratifications of international agreements, the draft laws with anti-corruption rules will be examined. On the latter point, the decision was taken by a majority. The timetable for this week also provides for the examination of the decree-law on competitiveness and social justice, as well as the draft law setting up a Committee of Inquiry into the killing of Aldo Moro and the institution of the gift day and the motions on the diplomatic-consular network. In the week between 3 and 5 June the discussion of the decree-law on competitiveness and social justice will continue. During the afternoon session on Wednesday 4 June, the election of a Senator Secretary will take place in place of another resignation. At the afternoon sitting on Thursday, 5 June, questions will be answered immediately, pursuant to Rule 151-bis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u62	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of April, May and June 2014: - Drawings of Law no. 19-657-711-846-847-851-868 - Provisions on corruption, vote of exchange, forgery in the balance sheet and money laundering - Law No 1402- Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Abduction and Death of Aldo Moro (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No 1176 - Establishment of the Day of Gift.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u63	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable until 5 June 2014 pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Tuesday, May 13 (unique) h. 11 - Follow-up to bill No. 1413 - Decree-Law No. 47, emergency housing (Scade on 27 May) - Drawing of law No. 1470 - Decree-Law No. 36, drug addiction (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Exceeded on 20 May) - Drawing of law No. 1430 - Decree-Law No. 58, measures for the smooth running of school service (Exceeded on 7 June) - Interrogations and questions Wednesday 14 " (unique) h. 9.30 Thursday 15 " (unique) h. 9.30]] The Assembly will not hold its session in the week preceding the European and administrative elections on 25 May. The Commissions will be able to convene in relation to the needs of the respective work programmes. [[- Ratifications of international agreements - Drawing of law no. 19-657-711-846-847-851-868 - Anti-corruption - Drawing of Law No. 1465 - Decree-Law No. 66, Competitiveness and Social Justice (Expired on 23 June) - Drawing of Law No. 1402 and related - Institution Commission of Inquiry into the killing of Aldo Moro (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No. 1176 - Establishment of the Gift Day - Motions on the reorganization of the diplomatic consular network Tuesday, 27 May pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 28 " ant. h. 9.30-13.30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 29 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 29 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law No 1402 (Institute Commission of Inquiry into the Killing of Aldo Moro) and No 1176 (Institute of Gift Day) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Monday 26 May. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 19-657-711-846-847-851-868 (Anti-corruption) and No 1465 (Decree-Law No 66, competitiveness and social justice) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, June 3, pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following draft law n. 1465 - Decree-Law n. 66, competitiveness and social justice (expires on 23 June) - Vote for the election of a Senator Secretary (Vote by secret ballot with open ballot box system) (*) Wednesday 4 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 5 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 5 June pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (*) The call for secret ballots will be made by ballot at the beginning of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 4 June. The ballot boxes will then remain open until 12 noon. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1413 (Decree-Law No 47, emergency housing) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote)]] [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 42' Mixed 36' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1470 (Decree-Law No 36, drug addiction) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 06' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' PI 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1430 (Decree-Law No 58, measures for the smooth running of school services) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h 06' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 34' NCD 30' Mixed 26' LN-Aut 22' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' PI 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1465 (Decree-Law No 66, competitiveness and social justice) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 47' NCD 42' Mixed 36' LN-Aut 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' PI 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u66	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you to put to the vote a simple and very small change in the timetable for the work of the House of which you have just read. Moreover, even taking into account all the comments made during the debate at the Conference of the Leaders, the proposal that I am going to explain could also be a kind of "parachute" for the House, allowing the need to expedite with the will to address the whole issue of anti-corruption and all related bills to be met. More specifically, Mr President, I would like to ask that, precisely on the basis of parachutes, the timetable be changed with the inclusion, in the week from 27 to 29 May - after the second item on the agenda, namely the examination of draft law No 19 and related - of the debate and vote in the Chamber of draft law No 847, which was the subject of that so-called urgent motion which was represented a moment ago. In so doing, if - according to my fears and the Group I represent - this House were not able to examine and vote on the entire anti-corruption package (Light No 19 and related), not because of the bad will of the Commission, but because of the time constraints, for the pre-election period, and because of the fact that there is no basic text to date and that the amending phase has not yet been opened, the Senate Assembly would still be able to do what all the political groups in this House said about an hour ago that it wanted to do, i.e. to be able at least to discuss and vote with regard to the amendment of four articles of the penal code relating to offences of concussion, corruption and office abuse. I did not have time to make this proposal at the Conference of the Leaders, but I believe that in this way we can be sure that at least one objective will be achieved in that week. Obviously, in the event that the Commission has had the opportunity to complete its work and the House will be able to vote on the whole package of anti-corruption measures, then the debate on draft law No 847 will be deleted from the timetable and will not be a problem. I hope that I have been able to make my proposal clear, on which I ask the House to express its views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u67	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Buccarella. It's not approved. The timetable for the work adopted by the Conference of the Leaders and which I have communicated to the Assembly remains therefore final. Colleagues, as announced, I suspend the session until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.20 p.m. and resumed at 4.30 p.m.) Let's resume our work. Colleagues, in view of the absence of the two rapporteurs, I briefly suspend the sitting and hope that they will arrive. (The sitting was suspended at 4.30 p.m. and resumed at 4.14 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u68	Let's resume our work. There is a delegation from the Croatian Parliament, accompanied by Senator Di Biagio. To it we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u69	I would like to inform you that the Presidency has received the opinion of the first standing Commission, as well as further opinions from the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and its amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the agendas, which are set out and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u70	Mr President, I am in favour of the G1 and G2 agendas and I am against the G3 agenda. The opinion was also in favour of the G4 and G5 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u71	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u72	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G1 and G2 will not be put to the vote. On the G3 agenda, the opposite opinion was expressed: do the authors insist on the vote? NUGNES (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the agenda G3, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. It's not approved. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G4 and G5 will not be put to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, having examined the amendments relating to Articles 1 to 8 of the Decree-Law, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, proposals 2.20, 5.12, 5.13, 5.16 (text 2), 5.0.1, 5.0.2, 8.0.4, 8.0.5 and 8.0.6, cannot be proposed, since they contain provisions which are unrelated to the content of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u73	Mr President, I am against all the amendments, with the exception of Amendment 1.9, which has already been withdrawn and turned into an agenda on which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u74	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u75	Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BOCCHINO (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Bocchino, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to amendment 1.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u78	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, I withdraw all the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u79	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendment 1.4 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Cervellini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Montevecchi (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.9 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.9 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u80	Mr President, I would like to explain sub-amendment 2.6/1. Our proposal is aimed at restoring the procedures for eviction by morosity and even by finite lease that would be eliminated in virù of amendment 2.6. I would also like to mention Amendments 2.9 and 2.10, which impact on the Rent Support Fund. The Ministry, in agreement with the State-Regions Conference, must establish the minimum requirements necessary to benefit from these contributions and the criteria to determine the extent of the contributions themselves in relation to the family income, related to the rent. Well, with Amendment 2.9 we are asking that the status of a separate parent with a minor child should also be considered among the allocation criteria. I would like to point out that this situation of difficulty concerns, in most cases, the father who, following the judgment by the court, the assignment of the family home and the obligation to pay the maintenance allowance, is in a situation of serious economic difficulty, which may result in the impossibility of leading a dignified existence, thus preventing the exercise of the parental role, which is absolutely necessary for children. Another criterion we propose is that of amendment 2.10, which considers the elderly, i.e. those over 70 years of age.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u81	Mr President, we want to reiterate that Article 2 (1) (a) needs to be completely revised, because we believe that the revision of Article 11 of Law No 9 of 2007 is to the detriment of the small fund which must be a support for the rentals of those in difficulty, whereas it is very clearly drained by agencies or rental institutions that are not better defined and also, to read better, by housing cooperatives for renting. They are cooperatives that are interested in building and that provide to create ex novo buildings or to give rentals to their subjects even without parameters. We therefore believe that the small fund that is allocated to rentals in difficulty cannot be circumscribed. Moreover, with regard to the specific, the fact that the procedures provided for the evictions for morosity are equated to those for finite lease, establishing even tighter times than an extremely serious emergency in our country, I think it is a demonstration of how this measure is the opposite of what it is declaring to be. [[Brusio.]] President, at least you listen to me. It is very difficult to speak in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u82	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u83	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u84	Mr President, I am against Amendments 2.1 and 2.2. The opinion is in favour of amendment 2.3. Amendment 2.4 is absorbed by amendment 2.3. I also welcome amendments 2.5 and 2.6/1, if the words are deleted: "Without prejudice to paragraph 1-a " (b) '. The opinion was also in favour of amendment 2.6. I am opposed to Amendments 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10 and 2.11. On Amendment 2.12 I am in favour. The opinion also opposed amendments 2.13, 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16. On Amendments Nos 2, 17 and 2, 18, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u85	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u86	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u89	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u90	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Carraro, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Ricchiuti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.2 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.3 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 2.4. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.5 (correct text) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.6/1. Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the request for reformulation? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 2.6/1 (text 2) tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.6 (correct text) in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.6 (correct text), tabled by the Commissions together, in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 2.7 and 2.8 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.9 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.10 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u93	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, this amendment seems to us to be of common sense, for a simple reason. With this amendment, we are asking, in fact, to include a further parameter (that of the years of residence) for the assessment of the rules of the national fund in order to benefit from the additional rental contributions. It seems to us very reductive to take as the sole benchmark the criterion of family income and the effect of the same on the rent to define who can use these funds. We believe that a citizen living in a municipality for several years must have greater guarantees from the State to use these contributions. We consider this to be an absolutely sensible amendment, and we cannot understand why the Government, from this point of view, does not want to protect not only Italian citizens, but all those who are integrated into the social fabric, and this seems to us to be quite discriminatory. Therefore, I ask the Government if, if necessary, it can accept an agenda to meet the needs of all the municipalities of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u94	As I see no sign of agreement from the representative of the Government, we shall proceed to the vote. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.12 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.12 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u97	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, with this amendment we consider it logical to give a reward to the local authorities which contribute, with their own resources, to the financing of this game. It seems to us that it is sufficiently rigorous for administrations to make resources available, inter alia, in a serious strategic plan and, therefore, within a political and administrative programme. Here too we consider the attitude of the one-way government: always against those local administrations that show that they are virtuous with regard to the game in question and that, in fact, they are not rewarded. We do not understand, therefore, where exactly the Government wants to go and who actually wants to reward: certainly not the virtuous administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u100	MIRABELLI, rapporteur. Mr President, I rise to say that I was wrong, in the sense that we are calling for the withdrawal of this amendment because Amendment 217 has been tabled, which is of the same standard. The Government agrees, so much so that the amendment approved by the Joint Commissions says the same thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u101	Senator Crosio, I would like to ask you whether you consider Amendment 2,17 to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u102	Since these are two identical amendments, one more vote does not affect our work. I therefore maintain Amendment No 2.13 and I would ask that it be voted on. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u103	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.13 tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.16 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 218. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2.19 is impervious. Amendment 2.20 is unacceptable. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to know whether it is possible to turn Amendment 2.20 into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, because it's improbable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u104	I am in favour of Amendment No 3.90, from which identical amendments 3.1, 3.111, 3 would be incorporated. 3, 3,200 and 3.2. I object to the identical amendments 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6. I am in favour of amendment 3.7, from which identical amendments 3.71, 3.8 and 3.201 would be incorporated. On the other hand, I am against Amendments 3.10, 3.11 and 3.12. The opinion was in favour of Amendment 3.13 and opposed to Amendments 3.14 and 3.15. I also welcome Amendment 3,202, which is identical to Amendment 3,203. I am opposed to Amendment No 3,17, while my opinion is in favour of Amendments Nos 3,18 and 3,19. On identical amendments 3.20 and 3. I am against Amendment No 21 as well as Amendment No 3.27/1. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendment 3,27. On Amendment 3.28 the 5th Commission gave an opinion against it, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and therefore withdrawn it. I am against Amendment 3.22, as well as Amendments 3.23 and 3.24. I am in favour of amendment 3.25, while on amendment 3.26 there is the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, I therefore withdraw on 3.0.1. I have a favourable opinion on the G3.1 agenda. Finally, on both additional amendments 3.0.1 and 3.0.200 there is the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. I therefore withdraw amendment 3.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u105	I agree with the rapporteur's opinion on all the amendments and accept the G3.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.90.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u109	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u110	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.90 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 3.1, 3.111, 3.3, 3.200 and 3.2 are therefore incorporated. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.4, which is identical to Amendment 3.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u113	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, these are identical amendments which, in the article on alienation of public housing, at least impose a limit by abolishing a derogation. Since we sell people's homes on the one hand and want to solve the housing need on the other (which seems to us at least in contrast) with these amendments, we limit the effects in part. Moreover, since they are amendments tabled by different groups, they could also be voted on, and I therefore call on everyone to do so. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u114	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.6 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.7 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.7 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 3.8 and 3.201 are therefore not included, and Amendment 3.71 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators, up to the words 'in the suburbs'. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. The remainder of Amendment 3.10 and Amendment 3.11. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u117	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, our position has already been clear in the Commission: we are against the sale of public housing, but even more so if the aims for which we want to sell are different from those for social housing. So, we would like to add the word "all" to make it a little more limited the possibility of using this money. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u118	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.13 Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.13, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.14, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators, up to the words "in the suburbs." I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 3.14 and Amendment 3.15 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,202, which is identical to Amendment 3,203. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,202 tabled by Senator Cantini, identical to Amendment 3,203, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.16 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,17 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,18. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.18, tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.19 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.10 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.20, which is identical to Amendment 3.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.20 tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni, identical to Amendment 3.21 tabled by Senator Gibiino. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.27/1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.27/1, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.27, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.28 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.22, tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.24, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Gibiino. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.25. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senators Mattesini and Tomaselli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.26 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3.1 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 3.0.1 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. I would ask the presenter if she would insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u119	Mr President, I believe that Article 3-a, which proposes to add with this amendment, represents a restoration of legality or at least of justice. It is not clear to us, in fact, why, with regard to the disposal of real estate, the privatised entities, which have benefited and enjoyed facilities, do not have to comply with the same rules as the public entities for disposals. However, this article also provides for these limitations to be contained. It seems strange to me that the Committee on Budgets is opposed in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, if I understand correctly, since these are now privatised bodies. I therefore request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u120	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Nugnes, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.0.200, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law - which I fear we will be able to deal with only partially - which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u121	Mr President, I would like to start by expressing my opinion on Amendment 4.34, because a large number of amendments would be precluded or absorbed by it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u122	Senator Mirabelli, amendment 4.1 must still be voted on earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u123	MIRABELLI, rapporteur. All right, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you're against it? MIRABELLI, rapporteur. Yes, Mr President, I am against Amendments 4.1, 4.2 and 4.7, while I am in favour of Amendment 4.34. Finally, I call for amendments 4.3, 4.4, 4.6, 4.5, 4.81, 4.8, 4.9, 4.11 and 4200 to be withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We can stop here, because on Amendment No 4,700 we need to wait for the opinion of the Budget Commission, which we still do not have. MIRABELLI, rapporteur. Can we put him down, Mr. President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are correlations with other amendments which will then lead me to move on to Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u124	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u125	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u128	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u129	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 4.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.2 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.34. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.34, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4.8, 4.9, 4.11 and 4200 are therefore incorporated, while amendments 4.3, 4.4, 4.6 and 4.81 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.5 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.7 tabled by Senator Milo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Pending the opinion of the 5th Commission on amendment 4,700, the remaining amendments to Article 4 and the agenda are set aside. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u130	I am against Amendments 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3. On Amendment 5.4 (text 2), the 5th Commission gave an opinion against it, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. I am against Amendments 5.5, 5.6 (text 2), 5.7 (text 2), 5.8, 5.10 and 5.11 and I am against Amendment 5.414. I am against Amendments 5.14 and 5.15. I am in favour of Amendment 5,170. On Amendment 518 (text 4) the opinion was in favour, but called for the word "stipulated" to be replaced by the word "recorded." On Amendment 5,180, the opinion was opposed. I call on you to accept the agenda G5.100. Amendments 5.0.1 and 5.0.2 are unacceptable. On Amendment 5.0.3 the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u131	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u132	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1, which is identical to Amendments 5.2 and 5.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u135	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, the rapporteurs have voted against Amendment 5.1, which deletes Article 5, but I believe that the Constitutional Court will speak against this article. I believe that it is absolutely unconstitutional, because it undermines the fundamental rights enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution. A further amendment was tabled by the rapporteur, which also harms the right to housing, as enshrined in a judgment of the Court of Cassation. I think we're moving really crazy. If we lived in a legal country where everything works, maybe this could be the icing on the cake. We are highlighting and ventilating this provision as if, thanks to it, we could return to legality. We know, however, that the penal code, with Articles 633 and 639- bis, already establishes that occupying an abusive property is a crime. But the state also has a duty to give a home, and therefore cannot evict it, because if I go to get the abusive occupying of a house, then I have to give it a home. So what do I do? I invent a beautiful amendment in which I say that for ten years he will have to live in lawlessness, because he will not even be able to register on the lists for the allocation of housing. EXPOSED by Stefano, rapporteur. For five years, following an amendment by your Group. NUGNES (M5S). It is true: for five years, thanks to the 5 Star Movement, but mine is an explanation of vote against, at least for this, and I take personal responsibility for it. This is because, although my Group's amendment still goes so far as to drain the rule and safeguard a right, it is still in this lane. We must therefore understand what we are talking about and what we are referring to. We are referring to a very often abandoned property and the result of building speculation and to people who do not have a home, do not have a home and are not even listed for the allocation of housing, because they know that they will never have the right to access these houses. What do we do? We know for sure, and here there are illustrious lawyers who know this, that this is only a propaganda attitude, because there are no terms of legality. I am agitated at this moment, because I think it is extremely important that we have read these words in this measure, with which we are also proud of wanting to respond to housing emergencies. But here the mask falls. I have tabled an amendment that provides that those who occupy abusive houses cannot have the connection of light, gas and water, because the builder of an abusive house is a person who has an income and possibilities, and probably that house is a villa near the sea. In that case, however, no action is taken, there is no longer the rule of cutting light, gas and heating, is it? We're shooting in front of people who don't have anything. I find this very serious and I also disagree with my Group's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u138	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have had a very challenging debate in the Commission, and I must say that the debate has seen senators and senators, even regardless of the groups they belong to, come to grips with this issue, which is very sensitive. We believe that the article is definitely to be considered unconstitutional: you can not relate any crimes, to be prosecuted according to the norms of the codes, of which I remember that our country has, with rights such as that to the residence and the connection of fundamental services such as water, light and gas. The rules for prosecuting offences are and should be applied in accordance with the laws and procedures laid down. Article 3 of our Constitutional Charter provides for the equal social dignity and equality of all citizens before the law, without distinction of personal and social conditions, and that the Republic has the task of removing the obstacles of an economic and social order that, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person. I would also like to add a comment. Subsequently, other amendments have also been tabled to this article which attempt to moderate the even persecutory purpose of the rule to some subjects. The rule as it is written lends itself to absolutely ambiguous interpretations, and the possibility of extensive interpretation can be truly bearer of further disputes, as even those who are under eviction can be understood as occupants without valid title, or better with expired title. Theoretically, all buildings without habitability are also occupied abusively and without title. We have also adopted laws, recently, which dealt with houses which had been the subject of demolition judgments, for very serious and very important reasons, and we have provided for a whole series of procedures. In this case, politics has made choices that can be shared or opposed, but we cannot leave to a blind interpretation questions that pertain to the basic living conditions of citizens and of so many minors that are touched by these measures, even providing for exclusion from the possibility of inclusion in rankings. Politics does exactly the opposite of what it should: it prohibits the possibility of being reimposed within a virtuous and legal path. We want to strongly oppose this. It is indeed, this yes, a battle of legality.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u141	EXPOSED by Stefano, rapporteur. Mr President, I have listened to the views of my fellow Members both in the Commission and in this House. I would like to remind you that we are dealing with housing emergency and we are trying to give a home - I tell the senator and colleague Cervellini - to those who cannot have it. In Italy there are very long rankings of Italian citizens who participate in calls of Municipalities and Regions and who wait (and the measure under consideration would like to reduce the time of this waiting) years to have a home. The article in question acts to protect Italian people and citizens who respect the law, waiting, according to legal procedures, for their turn to obtain a people's home. The legality - I want to say it to Senator Cervellini - is not to protect those who suddenly decide to occupy a house without title, subtracting it from those who, instead, in those rankings is, perhaps, for years. I would pray not to tell what is not written, because there is no word in this article that refers to the equalization of abusive occupations with the situation of citizens who are subject to executive eviction. We believe that the legality is to help Italian citizens who have been waiting for years for a house and not to favour the smart ones who occupy one without knowing from the municipalities are entitled or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u144	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to clarify one thing quickly. The second part of this article states that acts issued in breach of this prohibition are null and void: this is the part that is probably not constitutional, and on this we must be careful. In any case, the article has effects that are not good. We have tabled an amendment to mitigate this but, albeit mitigated, the article is still a piece of crap.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u147	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u148	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other Senators, identical to Amendments 5.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 5.3 tabled by Senator Campanella and other Senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 5.4 (text 2) is impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u151	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask why Amendment 5.4 (text 2) has been declared impervious. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is the opposite view of the 5th Commission. RICHIUTI (PD). I get it, but I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u152	If you want an explanation, you have to follow the Commission's work. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u155	CAMPANELLA (Mixed). Mr President, Amendment 5.5 calls for the effects of Article 5 to be limited to municipalities where services, notices or other administrative procedures are in place to deal with emergency housing cases, so in cases where local authorities provide viable and durable alternatives. This is precisely to guarantee the right of residence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u158	MIRABELLI, rapporteur. Mr President, I have listened to Senator Campanella, with whom we have also shared a great deal in the Commission. I believe, frankly, that this discussion in the Senate is useful. Are we saying that if the municipalities are not fulfilling, then whoever occupies any apartment, any private, is entitled to do so? I don't think so. Look, this isn't a vexation norm. The rule provides that, if someone enters abusively, breaking a door, inside the property of others, whether public or private, who supplies electricity, light and gas cannot execute the connections and the municipality cannot recognize the residence, not absolutely, but in that apartment, simply because it is not his or not have the right to stay, because maybe it is a public apartment that belongs to someone else, who perhaps needs him more. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u159	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.6 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.7 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 5.9 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.10 which is identical to Amendment 5.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.10, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, identical to amendment 5.11, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 5.414. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.414 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 5.12 and 5.13 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.14 tabled by Senator Milo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.15 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 5.16 (text 2) is improbable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,170. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5,170, tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 518 (text 5). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 518 (text 5) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 5180 is therefore excluded. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G5.100 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 5.0.1 and 5.0.2 are unacceptable. Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Moronese, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.0.3 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u160	Mr President, Amendment 6.5 concerns the acquisition of buildings for social or public housing or new buildings. We propose to buy well and build well: this is the concept. Buying well means not buying properties today that have a low energy class or are not structurally improved from the point of view of seismic quality. We therefore propose that, in case you decide to buy a property already built by someone, the latter is at least energy class B, according to the principle who spends most saves. As far as new buildings are concerned, we propose, in the same way, that something good be built. Therefore, respected anti-seismic criteria and better energy criteria. In fact, it is clear that higher standards may be required for a new building, while for a building to be retrained the expenditure may not be worth the candle. In this case we ask that at least Class A be reached for new constructions. After that we also request, since we want to make the investment and always that it is done well, that the energy needs be covered by autonomous generation system, therefore with photovoltaic system on the roof.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u161	Mr President, I am speaking to announce the withdrawal of amendment 6.0.2. Amendments 6.6 and 6.0.1 are also effectively replaced by amendments 6.250, 6.251 and 6.252.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u162	The Presidency takes note of this, but recalls that, pending the opinion of the 5th Commission, amendments 6,250, 6,251 and 6,252 will be laid down. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u163	I am against Amendments 6.1, 6.3 and 6.5. I withdraw amendments 6.4, 6.6 and 6.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u164	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u165	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u168	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u169	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Ricchiuti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 6.2 and 6.4 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Martelli and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 6.5. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 6.6, 6.0.1 and 6.0.2 have been withdrawn, while amendments 6.250, 6.251 and 6.252 are provided for pending the opinion of the 5th Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u170	President, I wanted to announce the withdrawal of Amendments 7.0.3 and 7.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u171	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u172	Mr President, I would like to explain the sub-amendments 7.4/1 and 7.4/2 relating to amendment 7.4, which concerns the notorious bonus for the purchase of furniture and large appliances. First of all, there is always the strangeness of matter, and I do not understand why sometimes this is detected and sometimes not. In short, the right hemisphere should be arranged with the left hemisphere. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Once the two brain hemispheres have been agreed, the interesting thing is that we want to grant a bonus for the purchase of furniture, regardless of the amount of expenses incurred for the renovation work. Therefore, it is a regalia to a given production sector. Since there are great problems in our production cycle, we should have a broader and more strategic idea. Why do we have to identify only the furniture and large appliances sector and not have a clearer policy on which sectors of industry we want to intervene in? Also because, as we know, these furniture are often produced abroad. And we would like to avoid the same mistake made on photovoltaics, when, with the money of indirect taxation on the Enel bill, we went to favour the German, Spanish and finally Chinese industry. With indirect taxation we have favoured foreign industries. Do we want to be careful this time? Large appliances are now produced outside Italy. Now, it is true that there are so many industries in crisis, but we must have an industrial policy. Amendment 7.4 addresses a problematic situation, but that is not the industrial policy that this country must have. For this reason, we have tabled these two sub-amendments to Amendment 7.4, and we ask that they be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u173	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 7.1 (text 2). On Amendments 7,150, 7.2 and 7.3, the 5th Commission gave an opinion against Article 81 of the Constitution and therefore the rapporteur's opinion was against it. I call for the provision of amendments 7.4/1, 7.4/2 and 7.4. On amendments 7,400, 7.402, 7.403 and 7.0.1 the 5th Commission gave an opinion against Article 81 of the Constitution, and therefore the rapporteur's opinion is against it. The opinion was opposed to amendment 7.0.2 and amendments 7.0.3 and 7.0.4 were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u174	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u175	Amendment 7.1 (text 2) has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 7,150, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u178	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 7,150, and I would also like to remind you briefly that we have discussed this amendment and the previous one a long time in the Commission here in the Senate. The amendment had been supported in the Commission and resources had been found by hitting those who continue to be considered the "sanctuaries", i.e. everything that is related to the gambling dealers of our State, but who can not ask the money from those who receive a lot of them. This would have allowed policies that could have significantly, efficiently and effectively lightened the matter. It happened as with the amendments relating to the other articles, all fallen under the werena of the Budget Commission. But really, as has also been mentioned, we do not understand how for covers that have also been considered effective by the technicians - the famous and notorious technicians - then there is a political choice that moves from a judgment of a different tenor. We therefore insist on the vote on the amendments which we proposed and which were shared in the committees responsible for the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u179	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Cervellini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7,150 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 7.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CAMPANELLA (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Campanella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 7.3 has been withdrawn, while amendments 7.4/1, 7.4/2 and 7.4 are provided for. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 7,400, 7.401 and 7.402 are impervious. Let us move on to amendment 7.403, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Cervellini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.403 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to amendment 7.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.0.02. CAMPANELLA (Mixed). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Campanella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Campanella and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 7.0.0.2, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 7.0.3 and 7.0.4 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u180	Mr President, I would like to set out sub-amendment 8,2000/1, referring to amendment 8,2000, and amendment 8.3. This sub-amendment tends to change the terms that allow the owner to purchase a building of public housing, because seven years seem really too few. We ask that the deadline be extended to fifteen, for a very simple reason. As has already been widely said, the purpose of public housing is not to sell, because at the moment I have a public housing and I sell it to someone who then can buy it now I take it away from the availability of someone who cannot buy it either now or - perhaps - later. So, for the purpose of giving someone a roof, I don't actually give it to them because there's a rightful person who can't have that house because I took it from them and gave it to someone else. That is the spirit of the sub-amendment which, if adopted, will determine our vote in favour of amendment 8,2000. Amendment 8.3 is a little more complex, and you should vote on it. The amendment is in line with the principle of rationalization of the public housing heritage because, with previous sales, always in this style, we have created a structure for which there are perhaps buildings in which one part of the property is public and another private. What does this involve? It involves, for example, obvious difficulties when you want to restructure in the energy sense, because if you do not have the majority of the condominiums (so the majority of the thousandths) you can not do so, even if the relative majority is at the head of the public subject. This, which is a defence proposal, establishes the following: at the time we sell, we try to sell to recover the integrity of public property in those properties where it is majority. Therefore, we disband where we are minority and buy where we are majority; therefore, having the integrity of a stable whole, we can proceed to adaptation works, which, vice versa, would not be possible and, therefore, we also save at the coffers of the State, because when I can proceed to an energy restructuring, the costs of heating and cooling fall considerably. At the hearing we had the experts at CasaClima, who presented us with a case of reduction of more than 90% of the costs. So let's rationalise and save. This amendment cannot fail to vote on it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u181	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 8.2. It seems to me very wrong to foresee, always and in any case, an absolute right of the holder of social housing to redeem it at the end of a very limited period (seven years), among other things without providing for the economic conditions under which this right should be exercised. With such a formulation, many municipalities that are guiding their policies on the moderate canon, which lasted much longer, could desist, since the social content of the forecast would be extremely limited. I have therefore formulated amendment 8.2, providing that the conventions will regulate the arrangements for renting social housing, as set out in the Ministerial Decree implementing Article 5 of Law No 9 of 8 February 2007. It will therefore be the conventions that could contain the redemption clause of the real estate unit and its economic conditions. However, the clause cannot allow redemption until seven years after the start of the lease and must prohibit the sale by the holder who redeems for at least fifteen years. We are all aware of the great business that has been done by so many people who have redeemed the property and then sold it after a few years at market price. [[Applause from Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u182	Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the definition of social housing in Law 560 of 1993 which my amendment seeks to make sense of. In Article 3 of the decree at our examination, in that famous revision of Article 13 of Decree-Law No 112 of 2008, in letter a), it is said that such procedures of alienation of real estate may also be done by way of derogation, precisely, from Law No 560 of 1993. How will this happen? We do not read anywhere that can also be purchased by third parties, these real estate, but we understand that these rules will be established by a subsequent ministerial decree. So, by way of derogation from Law 560, we have no guarantee that the pre-emption of those occupying the building will be respected. So I would like to make you think (my colleague, Mr Martelli, has already done so, but I do not want to spare myself) about what social housing is. Social housing has a role of general interest in safeguarding social cohesion, in order to reduce the housing hardship of disadvantaged individuals and households who are unable to access housing rental. We must bear in mind that Article 3 of the decree before our examination derogates from Law 560. In what way and for what articles the ministerial decree will then tell us, we do not know today. Amendment 8.8 tabled by me would like to reiterate the pre-emption of the owners who cannot in any case alienate the building before fifteen years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration, starting with amendment 8.7, which has been transformed into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u183	Why, Mr President, do we not start from the beginning of the amendments to Article 8? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Because the 5th Commission's opinion on amendment 8,2000 is missing and, consequently, we cannot vote on sub-amendment 8,2000/1. The next 8.1 was withdrawn. Amendments 8.2, 8.3, 8.4 and 8.5 would be precluded by the adoption of amendment 8.2000. , rapporteur. Yeah, yeah, I get it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is a series of intersections... MIRABELLI, rapporteur. Since I knew that in the 5th Commission the opinions had been expressed, I did not understand... PRESIDENT. Soon we will have to suspend work precisely in order to communicate the opinions expressed by the 5th Commission. MIRABELLI, rapporteur. On Amendment 8.7, which has been turned into an agenda, I am in favour of accepting this amendment. On the other hand, I am against Amendments 8.8, 8.9, 8.10, 8.11 and 8.13. On amendments 8.6 (text 2), 8.0.1 and 8.0.8 of the Commissions meeting there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, and therefore I withdraw them. On Amendments 8,14 and 8,0.3 there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission and I therefore object. On amendment 8.0.7, which has been turned into an agenda, I am in favour of accepting this amendment. Finally, I welcome the adoption of the agenda resulting from amendment 8.0.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u184	I agree with the rapporteur, Mr President, and I accept the agendas for G8.7 and G8.0.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u185	Amendments 8,2000/1, 8,2000, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4 and 8.5 are laid down. Amendment 8.1 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G8.7 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u188	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u189	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.8, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.9 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.11, tabled by Senator Ricchiuti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 8.12 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to amendment 8.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CAMPANELLA (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Campanella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.13, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 8.6 (text 2) and 8.0.1 have been withdrawn. WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 8,14 and 8.0.3. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendments 8.0.4, 8.0.5 and 8.0.6 are unacceptable. Amendment 8.0.7 was transformed by its presenter into an agenda which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Amendment 8.0.8 has been withdrawn. Pending the opinion of the 5th Commission, I suspend the work until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.31 p.m. and resumed at 6.05 p.m.) Let's resume our work. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, having examined the amendments relating to Articles 9 to 11 of the Decree-Law, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 9.0.300, 10.70, 10.71 and 10.0.11 cannot be proposed, since they contain provisions which are outside the scope of the provision. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, on which opinions have been received, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u190	Mr President, on Amendments 9.1 (text 2), 9.2, 9.3 (text 2), 9.200, 9.4, 9.6, 9,201, 9,202, 9,203 and 9,8 there is the opposite opinion from the 5th Commission, and therefore I am against them. Withdrawn amendment 9.7. I am in favour of Amendment 9.9. I withdraw amendment 9.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u191	Amendment 9.10 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u192	MIRABELLI, rapporteur. Mr President, since my opinion on Amendment 9.10 was in favour, I do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Amendment 9.12 has been withdrawn. VACCARI (PD). I withdraw amendment 9.13, Mr President. MIRABELLI, rapporteur. Mr President, since there is an opinion contrary to the 5th Commission on amendments 9.14 and 9160, I shall withdraw them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of this, but amendment 9160 has been reworded, so we are awaiting the opinion of the 5th Commission on amendment 9160 (text 2). MIRABELLI, rapporteur. I withdraw amendment 917. I am in favour of both the G9.100 and G9.101 agendas of the Commissions meeting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u193	Amendments 9.0.1, 9.0.2 and 9.0.3 have been withdrawn. On amendments 9.0.18, 9.0.19, 9.0.15, 9.0.14, 9.0.17, 9.0.200, 9.0.8, 9.0.7, 9.0.9, 9.0.5, 9.0.6 and 9.0.16 the 5th Commission gave an opinion against Article 81. MIRABELLI, rapporteur. I am opposed to these last amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 9.0.300 is unacceptable. Amendment 9.0.0100 of the Joint Commissions has been reworded, so we are awaiting the Commission's opinion on Amendment 9.0.0100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u194	Mr President, since there is an opinion contrary to the 5th Commission on Amendment 9.0.900 of the Commission, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u195	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u196	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u199	BEEPS (PD). Mr President, you have just said, when expressing your opinion by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, that Amendment 9.0.000 (text 2) is awaiting the opinion of the 5th Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, Senator Sposetti, because a rewording has been tabled that I believe is trying to overcome the causes that had led the 5th Commission to express an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on the first version of the text. BEEPS (PD). Did the same thing happen with regard to Amendment 9.0.200? PRESIDENT. - The debate is There has been no rewording, so there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission, unless Senator Zeller intends to recognise himself in the rewording of Amendment 9.0.000 (text 2), which is, however, an amendment of the Joint Commissions. BEEPS (PD). Has the reformulation of amendment 9.0.200 been tabled? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, while the other one is still sub-juice. BEEPS (PD). So, Mr President, how do you move on? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't tell me, Senator Sposetti: it's really hard. BEEPS (PD). Mr President, if you make any reasoning pending a reformulation, we must also do so for the other amendments, for the sake of respect for the authors. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 9.0.0100 is reworded. BEEPS (PD). Do me a favor, ma'am. Let us try to clarify, only out of respect for the authors of the amendment, that they have the right to know what happens to their amending proposal. Right? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Either someone rephrases amendment 9.0.200 or I have a text on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution: if the authors intend to rephrase it, they must tell me; otherwise, there is nothing else to do. BEEPS (PD). Mr President, I will stop here because we have understood each other: if we are waiting for a reformulation, there is no such thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u200	The reformulation is already in place and we are waiting for the opinion of the 5th Commission on Amendment 9.0.000 (text 2). We move on to amendment 9.1 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Cervellini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u201	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u203	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am voting against this amendment, but not so much because of its content. For those who do not know, the fee agreed provides for an agreement between the parties, but it is not established how much such fee is discounted compared to the market price. Therefore, already in itself, any incentive to the agreed fee that prescinds from the extent of the reduction is not constitutional and violates the principle of contributory equity. However, we are particularly opposed to cover, precisely because, at a time when we are proclaiming ourselves opposed to the biscuit state, we cannot expect to use the proceeds of gambling to carry out the coverage of any kind of measure. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Even the principle that if you want to discourage gambling you greatly increase the rate is wrong: those who are opposed to one thing, must also be opposed to any coming from it: if you enter the stage in which you accept gambling because it can still generate a cover, you are completely wrong. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u206	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I apologise, but the speed at which you govern the work of this House is such that it has prevented me from making a specific reference to an amendment that has been approved, thank God with my vote against. However, I must say to the Senate Assembly that Amendment 518 (text 5) has been approved, which provides for the extension of the legal effects of paragraphs 8 and 9 of Legislative Decree No 23 of 14 March 2011, which a decision of the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional. So this afternoon the Assembly approved the extension of the legal effects of a rule that has already been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. Congratulations! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Falanga, but we are in article 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u209	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the reason for our vote in favour is that, since there is a law of the state that regulates the conditions of the phenomenon, and remembering that we have fought strongly not to give discounts to the lobby and to the shrines of gambling, as happened in this House, at least we try to use the resources that arrive, without making discounts, for a policy that goes in favour of the needs of the less well-off, who suffer the most from the lack of social housing. So, we strongly claim this battle.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u210	However, given the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, more than a claim to cover, there should be talk of a dispute over cover. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 9.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Crosio, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.2 tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We move on to Amendment 9.3 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Cervellini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 9,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Mandelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9,200 tabled by Senators Mandelli and Ceroni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote made by Senator Crosio is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.4 tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9.5 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u213	CAMPANELLA (Mixed). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Campanella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 9,201, 9,202 and 9,203 are impervious. Amendments 9.7 and 9.15 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 9.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.9 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9.11 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.10 tabled by Senators Caleo and Filippi, which was subsequently withdrawn by the proposers and made by the rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 9.12, 9.13, 9.14 and 9.17 have been withdrawn. Pending the opinion of the Budget Commission, I have the provision of amendment 9160 (text 2). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G9.100 and G9.101 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 9.0.1 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Crosio, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.0.19 tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 9.0.2 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.0.14 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9.0.3 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment 9.0.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.0.17 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9.0.300 is unacceptable. Pending further consideration, I have the provision of amendments 9.0.100 (text 2) and 9.0.200. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 9.0.8 and 9.0.7 are impervious. Amendment 9.0.900 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 9.09.9, 9.0.5 and 9.0.6 are impervious. Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.0.16 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u214	Mr President, I believe that Article 10 contains negative rules. We intervene in urban planning with chaotic modalities, not coordinated with the previous discipline, seeking at all costs the improvised derogation, when if anything the need should be to make the ordinary paths of urban planning work better, to which it is competent to harmonize the important topic of social housing with other equally important instances, for example the availability of spaces for work and public services and the need to ensure that the recovery of the disused or underused areas translates on positive occasions for the cities and not in their worsening. However, today there is no need to increase supply in a general way, forcing urban planning. On the one hand, there are already proven mechanisms, such as integrated intervention programmes or recovery plans, which also provide for the possibility of easily modifying urban planning tools. On the other hand, we have the mass of unsold housing - and there are millions - which should be used, at least in part, for social purposes. The planned legislation will have few applications and will lead to disputes and actions that are not transparent. I have therefore tabled Amendment 10,1000 to provide that public funding for social housing should not lead to consumption of natural soil.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u215	Mr President, with the amendments we have tabled to Article 10, we are trying to direct government action towards a law that is more rational and synergistic than urban planning forecasts at local level. In essence, we try to create the possibilities for more sustainable urban regeneration, as well as for less land use. We will now see what the government's views will be, but we have little confidence. We believe that, however, our amendments certainly deserve a reflection, also because in various parts of the country the plans of government of the territory already present this type of direction; from our point of view, in fact, a correct and clearer use of the territory represents a good way to administer. We trust that, from this point of view, there is a positive assessment on the part of the Government. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would also like to emphasise - and we will return when we come to deal with the amendments provided for in Article 4 - what, from our point of view, is the central point of this measure. In such a way that we consider it somewhat approximate, the Government intends to go and find resources for this de facto measure by dismantling the objective law. The objective law is one of the laws that we consider most important for our country. It provides that certain infrastructure works have, from a procedural point of view, a preferential lane. Now, to find the cover for this measure, we go to dismantle the target law. A reconnaissance of the works that will never see the light is certainly also favored by our Group. In our country, in fact, unfortunately, the objective law has become the one in which everything and more is put, the book of dreams. Probably, a punctual reconnaissance regarding the works that will never be realized is opportune; it is opportune to delete these works and to devote those resources (which in fact block the budget of our Country) to infrastructures that, instead, are strategic and very important for our Country. The government, on the other hand, takes these resources and puts them on the home floor. If the objective law - and I would like to address the Government - is to be dismantled, perhaps it would be appropriate and polite for the Minister, Mr Lupi, to come here today to put his face on this issue, since he was also in favour of the objective law in 2001, while, in fact, he wants to disassemble it today. On this point we are very embarrassed. At a time when we know that there are no resources to realize the strategic infrastructures, which are fundamental for our country, the government does a reconnaissance and devotes these resources to the home floor. This is demential, and it is the fundamental reason why we are opposed to this measure. The fact that the Minister is not here today to put his face on us leaves us somewhat perplexed. Mr. Lupi should be concerned about making a punctual survey of the target law and making the money available, for example, to a strategic work such as the variant of Valico that will need - and we will see it in the coming weeks - an additional 200 million, in addition to the 500 million already allocated and additional to the 400 destined for the work, because this cannot be completed. Therefore, I want to see how colleagues, especially those in the Mezzogiorno, will still come to the Commission to ask for money for infrastructure when, in fact, they declare the death of the target law. Do not have the nerve to come to the Commission to ask for more money for strategic infrastructure, because today it is going to go to another side. This is an institutional disgrace! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u216	Mr President, I will present almost all the amendments tabled in Article 10. Amendment 10,201, in my first signature, and the next one are trying to establish an order of priority for redevelopment and rehabilitation, with a particular focus on neighbourhood school buildings. The aim is to try to realize - and in this sense some agenda has been accepted - a large census of empty, unused buildings, including those that are part of the speculative building we have talked about or, with reference to an accepted agenda, also of the buildings that must be destroyed or requirements to the public heritage; the latter, if they do not have architectural, archaeological or environmental constraints and are structurally in good condition, should be recovered. In essence, it is necessary to recover the existing, censor it and requalify it. As far as the amendments on energy redevelopment are concerned, I have been told that reference has already been made to them, but in fact there is a reference to a law transposing an old directive. For the new buildings we are still referring to Class C, whereas it would be appropriate, since we are making a new measure, to start adapting to the new directive, and therefore to Class B, for energy redevelopment. With regard to the destructions, since we are in a position to break down and rebuild elsewhere, we ask that at least it be defined that the air of sediments left free is no longer intended for construction but for public green. In the Commission, it was rightly pointed out to me that we should have written to the agricultural area. The offices escaped, but if the rapporteur would listen to me and suggest this change (replace the green area with the agricultural area) I would very much like to do so. Thank you, rapporteur. I accept your suggestion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u217	Colleagues, I remind everyone that the times begin to tighten!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u218	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments 10.10 and 10.23. Both should help. The first should meet what you, basically, want from this decree, namely to increase, possibly with new constructions and acquisitions, the real estate assets. Our proposal is then to do so according to what you would like, for example, without soil consumption. Since there is this discrepancy between the concept of land consumption with respect to urban planning and actual consumption, it would be better to have a clarification, because land consumption related to urban planning means that everything is already being consumed, and everything that has not been consumed has not even been planned. Paradoxically, therefore, if all soil consumption had been planned, from now on we could say that we no longer consume anything: and thank you, we no longer have the opportunity to consume it! We therefore propose that, in the event of new buildings being built for public housing, at least one should be preceded by a census of assets: before deciding to build, one must understand what is the need for housing, and, secondly, how many buildings are free and how many are occupied by those who actually have the title. This is planning, as was said earlier in the general discussion: first we plan and then we build, since there is not even an urgency. In case you decide to buy the already built, doing a favor to the manufacturers, at least that you buy a quality product, that has an energy class of an acceptable level (at least class B). Otherwise, you risk buying a product of bad quality, making a deal only to those who sell. With regard to Amendment 10.23, the aim here too is not to incur a European infringement procedure. By Article 10, in fact, you amend the definition of social housing or social housing. In order to avoid, in accordance with Articles 107 and 108 (ex 87 and 88) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the infringement of State aid must be explicitly prescribed that the buildings must be located, not sold. Therefore, you cannot in any way add the phrase "or lease" to the future sale agreement as provided for in Article 10. If you incorporate this phrase into the definition of social housing, you violate two articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, for which you go into certain infringement proceedings. So, let's save people something, at least by leaving the original definition of social housing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u219	Mr President, Amendment 10.0.8 amends Legislative Decree No 122 of 2005 on the protection of the property rights of property buyers to be built, making it a little more effective. In the first eight years of application of the measure, there have been serious problems both with the application of the rules relating to the conclusion by the manufacturers of the surety policies in favour of the buyers of real estate and with regard to the delivery of the insurance policy for the benefit of the buyers. Industry studies have in fact found that the granting of guarantee guarantees is respected only by 30% of the builders of new properties, and this percentage is greatly reduced in the regions of the South. In some cases manufacturers ask buyers to sign the declaration of renunciation to the guarantor, or in other cases they are offered a more advantageous purchase price in case of renunciation of the guarantor. These are totally illegal practices, which we must fight against. There is also the frequent practice of not delivering to the buyer a posthumous 10-year insurance to guarantee serious defects. The decree in question provides for an inadequate sanctioning system, which limits the effectiveness of the protection introduced for the benefit of buyers. Failure to issue legal guarantees means that citizens who have paid advances to purchase a property, in the event of bankruptcy proceedings against the manufacturer, will be deprived of protection, and their savings will be irretrievably lost. Moreover, the failure to release the guarantee results in the failure to feed the Solidarity Fund for victims of the real estate failures that have already occurred in the past. The incorrect application of the rules contained in Legislative Decree no. 122 of 2005 also results in a market imbalance between entrepreneurs who, by observing the law, bear more burdens and other operators. This amendment aims to eliminate the problems highlighted both in terms of the conclusion of the surety policy and in terms of the issue of the insurance policy. It is left unchanged the possibility for the buyer to request that the contract be declared null and void, as already provided for by law, and an obligation is introduced by the notary to verify in the conclusion of the contract the issue of the surety policy and the ten-year insurance. Should they not be released, it is possible to proceed with the conclusion, but the notary is required to report it to the Municipality in which the property is located for the purpose of the subsequent sanction by the municipal administrative body. The sanction will be paid in part by the municipal body and in part will feed the Solidarity Fund. In addition, the purchaser is not entitled to waive the protection provided for in the rules introduced. An authentic interpretation of paragraph 2 of Article 13 of Legislative Decree no. 122 of 2005 is also foreseen, which seeks to remedy the unequal treatment of the victims of the crisis of the manufacturer involved in competitive procedures and those involved in enforcement procedures. Finally, the terms for access to the Solidarity Fund are reopened, including for buyers involved in real estate failures since the following changes to the decree came into force. There's a lot of people who lose all their money pretending to buy a house. They have a law that protects them, but in reality this does not happen because there are so many vulnus in the legislation. Finally, but not least, there is a small correction to be made, because in reality the law does not recognize, in case of pre-emption, the right of the spouse. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u220	Mr President, I would like to specify the content of our amendment 10.0.201, which is similar to the one just put forward by my fellow Members on the issue of the protection of property buyers to be built. It is a problem that is felt, since unfortunately there are large groups of people who have invested their savings - the savings of a lifetime - in buying a house, and then seeing everything fade, perhaps within a failure. I would also like to point out that the problem of the granting of surety insurance by the manufacturers is the serious problem of the banking institutions, which unfortunately have not granted guarantees to the real estate companies themselves for a long time. This is a problem for credit institutions, which are increasingly undermining the ability of many people to have support to make this rule effective and effective. We will then listen to the views of rapporteurs and government, but aware of the scope of this amendment and of the difficulties associated with it, we are now ready to turn it into an agenda. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u221	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u222	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u223	Mr President, I am against Amendment 10,1000 (already 10.0.12), as well as Amendments 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 which are absorbed by Amendment 10,15 and on which I am calling for a withdrawal. The opinion is also opposed to amendment 10.4. I am in favour of Amendments 10,5 and 10,200, which are identical. The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 10.8 and 10.9, which are identical, as well as Amendments 10,201 and 10.10. Amendment 10.11 has been withdrawn. The rapporteur's opinion is against Amendments 10.12, 10.13, 10.202 and 10.14, while he is in favour of Amendment 10.15 (text 2). The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 10.16, 10.17 and 10.18, while it is in favour of Amendment 10.19. The opinion is opposed to Amendments 10.20, 10.21, 10.22 and 10.23. The opinion was in favour of amendment 10.24. The opinion was then opposed to Amendments 10.25, 10.26, 1027, 10.28 and 10.30 and was in favour of Amendment 1034. The opinion was opposed to Amendments 10.32, 10.31, 10.33, 10.36, 10.38, 10.39, 10.40, 10.41 and 10.42 and was in favour of Amendment 10.44. I also object to Amendments 10,43 and 10,203. The opinion is also in favour of amendment 10.45, provided that the words "with the same intended use" are expunged, and contrary to amendments 10.48 and 10.49. On Amendment 10.50 the opinion was in favour. Amendment 10,700, signed by the rapporteurs, lacks the opinion of the 5th Commission. The opinion was opposed to Amendments 10.52, 10.53, 10.54 and 10.56/1. The opinion was in favour of amendment 10.56, identical to amendments 10.57 and 10.58, as well as amendments 10.59 and 10.60 (text 2). The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 10,62, 10,63, 10.64, 10.65 (text 2), 10.68 and 10.69 and in favour of Amendment 10,74, identical to Amendment 10,204, and Amendment 10.79, identical to Amendments 10,76, 10.77 and 10.78. The opinion was opposed to Amendments 10.80, 10.81, 10.205, 10.82, 10.83, 10.84 and 10.86. Amendment 10.87 (text 2) lacks the opinion of the 5th Commission. The opinion is against Amendments 10.88, 10.89, 10.207 and in favour of Amendment 10.90. The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 10.91, 10.92, 10.93, 10.208, 10.94, 10.95, 10.96 and in favour of Amendments 10.97 and 10.99. The opinion was in favour of the G10.1 and G10.2 agendas. Invitation to withdraw the agenda G10.3, because the request for the updating of the municipalities to high voltage housing has already been foreseen in a previous proposal relating to Article 9, in which we have planned to update the resolution CIPE. On Amendments 10.0.1205, 10.0.1206 and 10.0.4 there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission. I also object to Amendments 10.0.3, 10.0.6 and 10.0.5. On the other hand, I am in favour of amendment 10.0.200 as reworded following the Commission's opinion against the second paragraph. With regard to Amendment 10.0.8, which is identical to Amendments 10.0.200 and 10.0.201, I propose that a small part of the amendments, which are the same, be adopted in order to remedy a complicated situation. In fact, the legislator has escaped the fact that the spouse is not allowed to exercise the pre-emption over these events. I would therefore do so without prejudice to paragraph 7 (b), (c) and (d). Therefore, only with regard to this part, I am voting in favour, requesting a split vote. The rest of the amendment should be withdrawn and the agenda changed. With regard to the acceptance of the latter, I would then give a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is However, a request for financial invariance was received from the 5th Commission. MIRABELLI, rapporteur. I understand that, Mr President, but since the Commission has to meet, presenting the proposal as rapporteur... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Mirabelli, rapporteur. ... then I don't think using the term "family" rather than "marriage" changes from the point of view of financial sustainability. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm convinced, too. We therefore refer the three amendments to the 5th Commission with the rewording you have proposed and await the opinion. MIRABELLI, rapporteur. Only the reworded part would be voted on, while all the rest of the amendment would become an agenda that has already been tabled. I am sorry to say this again, but I understand that the agenda has already been presented. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It didn't come to me. MIRABELLI, rapporteur. I know the hosts had prepared it. On Amendment 10.0.9 there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission. Compared to Amendment 10.0.10 I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u224	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u225	Senator Bignami, do you accept the amendment to Amendment 10.0.8 proposed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u226	Mr President, I could accept the request for an amendment, but it is not clear to me (and I would like to confirm this) whether the agenda has been tabled. It doesn't appear to me in the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u227	Me neither.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u228	BIGNAMI (Mixed). I wouldn't want to...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u229	No, Senator Bignami. Once the text has been received, I shall proceed to the vote. I would like to know whether Senator Stefani is also prepared to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u230	Mr President, all I asked was to turn my amendment into an agenda. If Mrs Bignami were to accept the rewording of hers, I would ask her to be able to sign the reworded amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we set aside Amendments 10.0.8, 10.0.200 and 10.0.201. While the Budget Committee is meeting, I would ask you to prepare the agenda. We promised Senator Azzollini to bring his Commission together at 6.15 p.m., but it seems to me that the terms have changed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,1000.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u232	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u234	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u235	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Carraro, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10,1000, tabled by Senator Ricchiuti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Will the authors accept the rapporteur's call to withdraw Amendments 10.1 and 10.2? MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 10.1. GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 10.2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 10.3 has also been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.4 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.5 which is identical to Amendment 10,200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.5 tabled by the Joint Commissions, identical to Amendment 10,200, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.8, which is identical to Amendment 10.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.8, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, identical to amendment 10.9, tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,201. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10,201 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.10 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10.11 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendments 10.12, 10.13 and 10.202, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u238	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteurs, in view of the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, to be able to turn Amendment 10,202 into an agenda. We are talking about the possibility of reducing the IMU to former IACP housing, which is a remarkably high property tax being equated with second homes. There is no point in speaking in this housing emergency when people living in former IACPs and ALERs must be subject to very high taxation. On the agenda, therefore, the Government is asked to assess the possibility of equalizing such housing, which in all respects are social, to the main dwellings, for which the IMU is not provided but, if anything, in a reduced form, a tax which is dictated by the TASI.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u239	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u240	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u241	The government accepts the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u242	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G10.202 will not be put to the vote. Given the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, since the authors do not insist on voting, amendments 10.12 and 10.13 are impervious. Let us move on to Amendment 10.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.15 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.15 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.16 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 10.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Cervellini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 10.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "and in relation to the different economic capacities of those entitled to vote." I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. The remainder of Amendment 10.17 and Amendment 10.18 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.19 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 10.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I would ask the authors if they insist on the vote. Mr Pezzopane (PD). I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.21 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.22, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.23 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.24. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.24 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.25. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.25 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.26, which is identical to Amendment 10.27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.26, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators, identical to Amendment 10.27, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.28. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.28 tabled by Senator Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10.29 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.30 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,34. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10,34 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. It therefore precludes Amendments 10.32, 10.31 and 10.33. Amendment 10.35 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.36. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.36 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10.37 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.38, which is identical to Amendments 10.39 and 10.40. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.38 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio, identical to amendments 10.39, tabled by Senator Mancuso, and 10.40, tabled by Senator Gibiino. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.41. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.41 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.42. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.42 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.44. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.44 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10,43 is therefore excluded and Amendment 10,203 is absorbed. Let us move on to Amendment No 10.45, on which the rapporteur suggested a rewording. I would ask those present whether they accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u243	Mr President, I would accept the proposal, but I would ask the rapporteurs to reword it as follows: 'However, already equipped with infrastructure and services', with the addition, therefore, of the phrase 'already'. As we are talking here about areas that must have urbanistic burdens, the condition is that there are already existing infrastructure and services on the area.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u244	Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u245	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u246	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.45 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.45 (text 2) tabled by Senator Ranucci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10.46 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.47.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u249	NUGNES (M5S). I would like to ask why the rapporteur did not ask me to rephrase Amendment 10.47, since in the Commission he told me that the error was the word 'public green'. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Maybe he's given it a second thought. NUGNES (M5S). I would urge him to ask me to rephrase it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Maybe he could think of it spontaneously. NUGNES (M5S). He may have been distracted, because when I made the statement he was very distracted. So I wanted to give him another chance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr President, do you have any doubts about Amendment No 10.47 or do you maintain your opinion against it? NUGNES (M5S). That is, instead of public green, it is said, more correctly, agricultural area. MIRABELLI, rapporteur. However, it is already provided for in paragraph 8 of the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u250	So, I guess yours is an invitation to retreat. Senator Nugnes, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation? NUGNES (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.48. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.48 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.49. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.49 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.50. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.50 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10.51 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.52. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.52 tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Pending the opinion of the 5th Commission, I have the provision of amendments from 10,700 to 10,56. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.59. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.59 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.60 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.60 (text 2) tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10.61 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment 10,62, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Cervellini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10,62 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 10.63, 10.64 and 10.65 (text 2) are impervious. Amendments 10.66 and 10.67 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.68. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.68 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.69. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.69 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 10.70 and 10.71 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 10.74, which is identical to Amendment No 10.204. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.74 tabled by the Joint Commissions, identical to Amendment 10.204, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.79. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.79 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 10.80, which is identical to Amendments Nos 10,81 and 10,205. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.80 tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni, identical to Amendments 10.81, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other Senators, and 10.205, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other Senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 10.82. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 10.82, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators, up to the words "social" and "social". I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 10,82 and Amendments 10,83 and 10,206 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.84. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.84 tabled by Senator Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10.85 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.86. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.86 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Pending the opinion of the 5th Commission, I have the provision of amendment 10.87 (text 2). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.88, which is identical to Amendments 10.89 and 10.207. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.88 tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni, identical to Amendments 10.89, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, and 10.207, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other Senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.90. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.90 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.91. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.91 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Ciampolillo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,92, which is identical to Amendments 10,93 and 10,208. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.92 tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio, identical to amendments 10.93, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other Senators, and 10.208, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other Senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Let us turn to Amendment No 10.94, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u251	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u253	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, more than an explanation of vote, I would like to make an appeal to my fellow Members in the South, precisely to understand whether they are aware of the fact that this de facto measure gives the Government the power to intervene on the objective law and to delete strategic works, but we do not know by virtue of what, because we have not quite understood what the principle on which they will base will be. Although we know that the strategic works, from the procedural point of view, are particularly suffering in the Mezzogiorno, the Government is given the power to cancel them indiscriminately. In view of the embarrassment of this, I repeat what I said earlier: on other occasions we will find ourselves in the situation where we are still going to look for funds for strategic infrastructure, which in fact will either be no longer there or will be emptied, and I happen to think that this will happen again in the Mezzogiorno. I therefore do not want to hear again the usual litany for which one acts indiscriminately on the works of the Mezzogiorno: therefore, everyone takes his own examination of conscience and expresses his own vote on it. I therefore request the vote on Amendment No 10.94.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u254	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Crosio, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.94 tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law n.1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.95, which is identical to Amendment 10.96. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.95, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendment 10.96, tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.97. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.97 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.99. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.99 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G10.1 and G10.2 will not be put to the vote. Senator Nugnes, do you insist on voting on agenda G10.3? NUGNES (M5S). No, Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 10.0.100, 10.0.1, 10.0.2, 10.0.4 and 10.0.1204 have been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 10.0.1205, 10.0.1206 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.0.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.0.3 tabled by Senator Mancuso. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.0.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.0.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.0.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.0.5, tabled by Senator Cervellini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.0.2000 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.0.2000 (2nd text) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 10.0.8, 10.0.200 and 10.0.201 are scheduled pending the opinion of the 5th Commission and the agenda. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 10.0.9 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.0.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.0.10 tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 10.0.11 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u255	Mr President, I am only in favour of Amendment 11.2, while the opinion is against Amendments 11.1 and 11.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u256	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u257	Let us move on to amendment 11.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Crosio, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.2. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote by simultaneous ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.2 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.0.1. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.0.1, tabled by Senator Ricchiuti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.0.100 has been withdrawn. I call on President Azzollini to give us some information on the time needed for the 5th Commission to draw up its opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u258	Mr President, I believe that by 8 p.m. we will be able to deliver opinions. However, I have heard many rewordings: we hope to succeed anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u259	There is a lot to do and there is also some provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u260	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, we can try to deliver opinions by 7.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u261	Colleagues, President Azzollini takes about half an hour to deliver opinions, after which the offices ask for another half an hour to receive them. I therefore propose that the sitting be suspended until 8.30 p.m. If there are no comments, this remains the case. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.10 p.m. and resumed at 8.33 p.m.) The session is resumed. I inform the House that the work of the 5th Commission has just been completed and that the Presidency is not yet in possession of the opinion. A further suspension is therefore necessary. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.20 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 8.33 p.m. and resumed at 21.20 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, let us resume our work. The Presidency, after examining the amendments relating to Articles 12, 13 and 14 of the Decree-Law, declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Regulation, amendments 12,0.3 and 12,0.7 cannot be proposed because they contain provisions that are not relevant to the content of the provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u262	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u264	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. You have given statements of inadmissibility and inadmissibility. Today we have been debating the applicability of Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure in the Commission. I do not understand, however, that a debate is taking place on whether or not Rule 97 (1) is applicable in this House. I am saying this because I would have expected him to have declared Amendment 13.8. In fact, the use of an amendment to a measure on the housing emergency, a part of which also concerns Expo 2015, to surreptitiously remove 50 million from the revolving fund for the payments of the public administration to the enterprises in order to increase by 50 million the fund for the lyric-symphonic foundations seems to me truly a blasphemy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] It is useless to fill your mouth by saying that we would finally pay the debts of the public administration when then, constantly, this fund is used to make - I apologize for the term - of the marchettes. With good grace from Minister Franceschini, in fact, that money, if you want, goes to find them somewhere else, but does not go to remove them from a fund intended for businesses, payments and for the revival of the economy. I wonder how it relates to the decree-law that we are discussing giving 50 million more, compared to the 75 already destined, to lyric-symphonic foundations. I therefore ask you to reconsider the admissibility of this amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u265	The Presidency took note of the work of the Commissions and the eligibility judgment given there. However, we will go further on the part that you have submitted to us. We shall resume the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 4 above, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u266	I am in favour of amendment 4,700. Amendments 4.12, 4.13, and 4.19 are absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4.34. I am against Amendment 4.15 and I am in favour of Amendment 4.16. I am against Amendment 4.21. On the other hand, I am in favour of amendment 4.22. I am against Amendment 4.23. On Amendment 4.24, I would ask the authors to turn it into an agenda. I am in favour of amendment 4.25. Amendment 4.26 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4.34. I withdraw amendment 4.28. I am against Amendment 4.29. I am in favour of amendment 4.30 and the G4.1 agenda. I withdraw amendments 4.0.700, 4.0.32 and 4.0.33.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u267	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u270	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have not understood the opinion expressed on Amendment 4.17 by both the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 4.17 had the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. You may request the vote. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We will, however, ask for it to be put to the vote, but it seems to me rather abnormal, because it is proposed that two paragraphs be deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u271	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,700.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u272	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u273	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u274	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u275	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4,700 tabled by the rapporteurs. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1412 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4.12 and 4.13 are absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4.34. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1412 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.16 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1412 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to amendment 4.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Crosio, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senators Crosio and Arrigoni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1412 PRESIDENT. Amendments 4,18 and 4,20 have been withdrawn, while amendment 4,19 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4,34. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.21, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1412 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.22, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1412 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.23, tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Crosio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1412 PRESIDENT. Amendment 4.14 calls for it to be turned into an agenda. Do the presenters accept this invitation? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G4.24 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.25. I suspend the vote. I would ask the rapporteur to speak. In voting for amendment 4.25, the Commission's amendment 13.0.3 is then considered to be incorporated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u276	Mr President, I would ask the proposers to withdraw amendment 4.25, because Amendment 13.0.3 seems to be better written.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u277	Senator Laniece, do you accept the rapporteur's request?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u278	Yes, Amendment 13.0.3 is a complete safeguard amendment and, therefore, we withdraw Amendment 4.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u279	Amendments 4.27 and 4.28 have been withdrawn, while amendment 4.26 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4.34. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.29. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.29, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.30 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the G4.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendments 4.0.31, 4.0.700, 4.0.32 and 4.0.33 have been withdrawn. We resume the examination of the amendments referred to Article 6 of the previously provided decree-law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u280	Mr President, all the proposed amendments to Article 6 have received the opposite opinion from the Budget Commission, and the opinion is therefore against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u281	Senator Panizza, you have tabled a rewording of amendment 6.252. This means suspending work in order to have an opinion from the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u282	Mr President, I would ask you to postpone the examination of the amendment so that, if the President of the Budget Commission arrives in the meantime, we may be able to resolve this issue, given that we have discussed it in the Commission. We only specified the Minister's request better.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u283	Amendments 6,250, 6,251 and 6,252 remain therefore to be incorporated. We resume the examination of the amendments referred to Article 7 of the decree-law, previously laid down, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u284	The opinion was opposed to amendments 7.4/1 and 7.4/2. On Amendment 7.4, the opinion was in favour. The remaining amendments received the opposite opinion from the Budget Commission and therefore the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u285	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u287	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I'm sorry to insist. I did not understand why we did not vote for amendment 4.0.700. I knew we would vote for it later. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was withdrawn by the rapporteurs. CIOFFI (M5S). And I can't do it mine? Sorry, but we approved it in the Commission. I understand that the 5th Commission, under Article 81 of the Constitution, has issued an opinion against it, but we can vote on it. I'll do it myself, and we'll vote on it. Otherwise we do not understand: we have approved it in the Commission. Will Parliament be more important than Article 81 or not? [[Some Senators of the Per l'Italia Group nod no.]] No? Then don't count anything. So, they're right that they want to abolish you. Anyway, I'm doing it myself and I'm asking for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u288	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Cioffi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.0.700, withdrawn by the rapporteurs and made by Senator Cioffi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall resume the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, previously provided for.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u289	Madam President, I withdraw Amendments 6,250 and 6,251.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u290	I take note of that. I would remind you that Amendment 6,252 remains put aside. We shall resume the examination of the proposed amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.4/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u291	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u293	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u294	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.4/1 tabled by Senator Scibona and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.4/2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.4/2 tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u295	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u296	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u297	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would ask that Amendment 7.4 be voted on separately, namely that paragraph 2-a be voted on first and then on 2-b. If there were to be an opposition, I would ask, before proceeding with the vote by show of hands, for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u298	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u300	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Senator Calderoli's intention is, of course, to check the quorum. The amendment makes sense in its entirety, and therefore we must vote for it in full.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u301	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u303	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, at this point we must proceed to the vote on the amendment. I would like to suggest one thing to my colleagues: when there is such a proposal, it is accepted, so that we can proceed with the vote with the electronic system, without checking the quorum. But since there is opposition, we are asking for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u304	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the proposal to vote separately on Amendment 7.4, tabled by Senator Calderoli. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u305	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u306	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u307	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I apologise, but does it confirm that the 5th Commission has given an opinion against Amendment 7.4 in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, while the rapporteur has given a favourable opinion? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The 5th Commission revised its opinion. NUGNES (M5S). So, amendment 7.4 has the cover? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, he's got the cover. NUGNES (M5S). Perfect. I'm delighted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u308	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.4 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendment 7.0.1, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Dalla Zuanna, do you request a vote? WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to amendment 7.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Senator Panizza, I'm gonna ask you if you're gonna pick him up. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u309	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u310	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u311	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, amendments 7.0.1 and 7.0.3 had already been withdrawn. So we are thinking about amendments that have already been withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It did not appear to the Presidency. Montevecchi (M5S). Believe me, it was like that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u312	The Presidency takes note of this. Let us move on to amendment 7.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We resume the examination of the amendments referred to Article 8 of the decree-law, previously laid down, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u313	I am opposed to Amendment 8,2000/1 and to Amendment 8,2000. I would ask the authors to withdraw amendment 8.2, which is included in amendment 8.2000; if not, the opinion is against it. Finally, the opinion is opposed to Amendments 8.3 and 8.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u314	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u315	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u316	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u317	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 8,2000/1, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1413
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u320	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I believe that you should repeat this vote, because you did not ask the representative of the Government for an opinion first.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u321	I shall cancel the vote. I therefore ask the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments previously provided for in Article 8 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u322	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u323	I would like to refer again to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 8,2000/1, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 8.2000. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8,2000, tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1413 PRESIDENT. Amendments 8.2, 8.3 and 8.4 are therefore excluded. Amendments 8.1 and 8.5 have been withdrawn. We resume the examination of the amendments referred to Article 9 of the decree-law, previously laid down, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u324	I am in favour of amendment 9160 (text 3), obviously accepting the condition of the 5th Commission, according to which the opinion of null and void is conditional under Article 81 of the Constitution on the replacement of the cover clause by the following: To the burdens deriving from the paragraphs 2-a and 2-b valued in 1,53 million euros, for the year 2014, and 1.69 million euros, from the year 2015, the corresponding reduction of 1.53 million euros, for the year 2014, and 1.69 million euros, from the year 2015, of the appropriation of the special reserve fund of current part entered, for the purposes of the three-year budget 2014-2016, under the program "Source and special funds" of the mission "Sources to be shared" On Amendment 9.0.0100 (text 2), in the rewording proposed by the 5th Commission, I welcome this. Amendment 9.0.200 would be absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u325	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u326	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u327	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u328	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, on Amendment 9160 (text 3) I believe that the importance of paragraphs 2-a and 2-b requires a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u329	They are both contained within the scheme of this rule: the first paragraph and the second are linked. In this case the House does not decide; Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure states, in paragraph 5, that when there are related paragraphs, we must vote on the amendment as a whole, we cannot vote on it separately. Excuse me, Senator Calderoli, please clarify what part you want to vote for separately.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u330	Paragraph 2-a votes first, after which we vote on the 2-b and the following paragraph which starts with "So". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are there any comments from the House?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u331	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u332	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u333	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Madam President, the amendment has been reworded by accepting the comments of the 5th Commission. It seemed to me that there was integrity in the new formulation. If it is still separable in two paragraphs, it will not be possible to vote for separate parts, provided that the rewording permits.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u334	The rewording, I suppose, allows it. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Senator Calderoli to vote separately on Amendment 9160 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u335	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u336	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u337	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I disagree. I'm sorry, but I really don't agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u338	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u339	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u340	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). For the correctness of the vote, first I would like to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u341	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 21.51 a.m. and resumed at 22.11 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u342	Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to vote separately on Amendment 9160 (text 3), tabled by Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u343	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u345	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is clear, however, that my insistence could also be changed in the light of a revised position on Amendment 13.8 given the suspension, I would say that it is useful to recheck the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u346	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u347	I note that Senator Panizza has withdrawn amendment 6.252. I also note that the additional opinions expressed on the amendments by the 5th Standing Commission will be published in the annex to the report of the sitting. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u348	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u349	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u350	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, to end the evening, let's talk about Expo 2015. The theme of Expo 2015 should have been to feed the planet, while it ended up feeding and fattening the usual known, starving even more the Italian people. It is the faithful mirror of a political class not only inadequate, but also dangerous, which, in an indissoluble interweaving with organized crime, has organized yet another infamous banquet. For a long time the 5 Star Movement has denounced the evident distortions of this project, from the urban variant - which for the first time in the history of the universal exhibitions uses a private area - to the works in charge of the famous Infrastructures Lombarde SpA, whose summits have already been associated with the patrie galere. As early as 2008, the Public Contract Supervisory Authority signalled that public evidence and subsequent control were lacking in tenders. Six years have passed, during which, unfortunately, the great works of connection with the Expo have started. Expo should have revived Italian agriculture, and in the meantime, while the powerful share the loot, Italy produces only 70 percent of the food it consumes, imports 50 percent of the wheat for bread and 40 percent of the meat. Moreover, the abandonment of the countryside involves a lack of protection of the territory and an increase in cementification. As a 5 Star Movement, we urgently ask, through an interrogation, that Minister Martina come to report in this House whether he intends to suspend this shameful Expo 2015 or carry out a universal exhibition that is sustainable, for a sustainable agriculture and a real revival of Italian agriculture, for the benefit of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u351	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-245.ana.u352	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.16 a.m.
