ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u3	The next item is the question and question. The first question will be asked 3-00179 on the implementation of the electronic identity card. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u4	Mr President, the question on the agenda calls for an explanatory statement by the Government on the non-ministerial authorization to issue an electronic identity card to certain municipalities which had requested it, with particular reference to the requests made by the Lombard municipalities belonging to the Union of Foedus and the Cremona municipality of Soncino. First of all, I would like to point out that the original regulation of the electronic identity card has been largely reformed by Decree-Law No 179 of 18 October 2012, converted by Law No 221 of 17 December 2012. This reform has given the Ministry of the Interior ownership of the process of issuing the electronic identity card; it has unified it to the health card (so-called unified digital document). In addition, it provided for the inclusion in the said document of the national charter of services; it introduced the gratuitous release; it brought these innovations back within the framework of a complex technological design related to the simultaneous realization of the national registry of the resident population (ANPR). Finally, the new legislation has made explicit reference, at the implementation level, to the approval of technical rules for production and release, through interministerial decrees, currently being adopted by the administrations and bodies concerned. Pending the implementation of the aforementioned technological design, the issuing of the original electronic identity card is maintained. This forecast has, therefore, determined the continuation - at present and only until the implementation of the centralised process of issuing the new digital document - of the emission handled by the municipalities alone already identified as investigators in constancy of the previous discipline. From this provision, which does not allocate any financial resources to the maintenance of the original experimentation, it follows the legal impossibility for this Administration to accept the further requests for authorization to the experimental release provided for by the previous legislation, sent from other municipalities after the entry into force of the described reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u7	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my fellow Members for allowing me to speak immediately. I am pleased with the answer because we are finally getting some clarity on the situation. Sorry because there are municipalities, including those that have been mentioned, which have incurred expenses to purchase software, to prepare all offices, to do training processes towards staff and to start issuing this type of identity card. We know very well that the electronic identity card is also a little awaited by a large part of the population, especially that of the municipalities that had almost already announced it to the population. So, the blocking of this trial leaves us perplexed. The hope is that we will be able, in one way or another, to resolve as soon as possible any problems that may exist and to start, at this point, no longer with a trial but with something definitive. The municipalities are already in financial difficulty at the moment; they have incurred expenses and, at the moment, finding themselves with expenses incurred without being able to give a service to the citizens is not pleasant.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u8	The following is the question 2-00141 on recognition for military engagement in Operation Mare nostrum. I call Senator Giovanardi to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u9	Mr President, we spoke a great deal in the Senate yesterday and today about the Mare nostrum mission and all its most comprehensive and even problematic aspects. This interrogation, on the other hand, touches a specific point that concerns the same operation Mare nostrum. This is a controversial point because the questioning 2-00141 refers to an episode that concerned the ship of our Navy Aliseo, commanded by Massimiliano Siragusa, which not only saved 150 Syrian refugees who had been abandoned on a boat but, once secured these refugees, chased the 16 Egyptian scafists who had fled to another ship and at the end of the chase managed to arrest them. These boatmen are now being investigated by the Attorney General of Catania. Of course the military ship acted under the direction of the magistrates and, to stop that ship, fired warning shots, as is also done in Italy when the police forces have to stop people fleeing. On this episode, however, a parliamentary controversy arose, because colleagues from another side contested the use of weapons and, basically, asked to open an investigation on behalf of our sailors and Commander Siragusa. I remember, as has been done also in these days, that from 18 October 2013 until 26 March 2014, the day on which I presented this questioning, not only were 13,500 immigrants saved but that more than 50 scafisti have already been captured (today arrived at 100 scafisti arrested). Without prejudice to the fact that the Navy operates under the direction of the judiciary and with tasks of judicial police, the question I asked the Minister is as follows: in the face of an attempt to criminalize those involved in the front line, what does the Ministry of Defence intend to do, in particular, to recognize the extraordinary commitment of the crews and commanders, also arriving, possibly, to recognize them or career advancements or honors or commendations? In short, I am referring to something that shows the recognition to these men not only of their extraordinary commitment, but also of the activity they carry out to combat the phenomenon of illegal immigration, but above all the organised crime that exploits the despair of migrants and those who ask for asylum in Italy. Therefore, I expect a comprehensive response from the Ministry in defence of the men engaged in the mission, also to recognize their capacity for sacrifice and their operational capacity and, above all, not to discourage them when, in the fight against crime and the hullers, instead of seeing their recognized commitment, they had to get into trouble for that same commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u10	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u11	Mr President, with regard to this subject which is affecting various parliamentary debates, I would like to confirm that Operation Mare nostrum, which was launched on 18 October 2013, has undoubtedly achieved significant results in terms of safeguarding life at sea, prevention and repression, also thanks to its capacity and professionalism, the spirit of sacrifice and the unselfishness highlighted by the crews and commanders of the naval units of our Navy and by all personnel on board other cooperating units of the State. This is done to safeguard life at sea. With great expertise and self-denial, in fact, the women and men on board have provided and provide daily, 24 hours a day, a unique support in assisting migrants in a serious condition of danger, in order precisely to safeguard the life of those who go by sea. This meritorious commitment is the result of training, but also of the character and humanity of the individual soldiers who, on board the units of the Navy, use the necessary equipment to assist a large number of people, including specific medical and health skills for first aid, subsistence and reception on board of the people rescued: this is the activity that they carry out all and you also know the results that we are achieving. In particular, we are asked how extraordinary activities can be evaluated and a particular episode is mentioned. With regard to the opportunity to recognize the extraordinary engagement of the crews and the commanders engaged at sea, with particular reference to the episode happened on the ship Aliseo, it is represented that any concessions of honors will be taken into consideration at the conclusion of the operation Mare nostrum, as already implemented in the past in similar circumstances, only after having verified the existence of the requirements previewed from law. This is also to maintain the motivation of the units employed. We are convinced that, beyond the general recognition, these particular cases will be abundantly and punctually assessed at the end of the transaction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u14	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Alfano for his comprehensive answer to my questioning. I take advantage of this opportunity to renew, with regard to the New Right Centre, solidarity and closeness to the crews involved in these missions and also gratitude for what they are doing, both from the humanitarian point of view and the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u15	Following is the questioning 2-00150 on the detention precautionary measure against Nicola Cosentino. I call Senator D'Anna to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u16	Mr President, I would like to make it clear, even if the time allotted to me is limited, that I do not intend to interfere in judicial matters, that there has already been a debate for over three years, from which - I say this just by the way - nothing has emerged, and this after six long years of investigation. But I'm not interested in repeating this. With regard to this citizen, the protective measures taken in prison for the following place by the investigators have been used twice in a row, within eight months: Nicola Cosentino's power has crystallized over time - we are talking about a hypothetical exchange of votes between 1990 and 1991 - and it has been possible to keep alive because he maintains a series of contacts and interactions with Members, senators, regional councillors and mayors. Since I am one of those who interacted with this person, of whom I boast and honor to be a friend, I would like to know if the assumption that Nicola Cosentino holds in prison as socially dangerous arouses concern, and not for Nicola Cosentino, but because the prosecutors overlook a network or of unsuspecting, that they unconsciously end up favoring criminal organizations, or of real favorers; in fact, if the assumption is that Nicola Cosentino is socially dangerous because he continues to know people positioned in agencies, parliamentary, regional or municipal institutions that can then turn on criminal associations their power, then of the two one: or we are fools who unknowingly favor the criminal organizations or we are collusion. To protect my goodness and that of all those who have the courage to defend this goodness, I would like to know whether the Minister of Justice believes that he can start an inspection at the competent offices, to ascertain, not because Nicola Cosentino is in prison (this is in fact known: because he is political), but if it is true that the hypothesis that he keeps him in prison can be supported by some element. It would be very serious for criminal organizations, particularly those in Campania and in particular in the province of Caserta, to be able to rely, knowingly or unknowingly, on action, intercession or any other way or circumstance, by the men of the institutions. I believe it is in the Minister's interest to ascertain whether or not this network of complicity or connivance exists, beyond the fact that an incensured person is being held for the second time in prison for facts which have not been established in the debate. We must shed light on this infamous hypothesis, because of the two: either we must be exterminated or Nicola Cosentino must die, otherwise he will continue to be socially dangerous simply because he had knowledge, friendships or political connections with people who are still political.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u17	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u18	Mr President, in relation to the questioning of Senator D'Anna, I represent that the Ministry of Justice, through the General Prosecutor of Naples, has acquired the note of the Deputy Prosecutor of the same Prosecutor and have been examined both the restraining measure of personal freedom of the former coordinator of the PdL and Mr Nicola Cosentino, and the order by which the Court of Review of Naples, on 12 May 2014, ruled on the said coercive measure. The documentation collected shows that the order of custody, applied on 26 March 2014 to Nicola Cosentino by the competent gip of the court of Naples, was confirmed by the review court, which reported in its entirety to the analytical reconstruction of the facts contained in the aforementioned precautionary measure, shared the arguments and the reason for the contested order and - quote a passage from the measure now mentioned - considered the reasons that led to the issue of the restrictive measure to be extensively and comprehensively dealt with. The review court, in fact, analysed the aspects concerning the interdependence of the events that have followed over time (an expression always used in the provision of the judicial authority), drawing autonomous evidence to assert the responsibility of Nicola Cosentino and the other subjects involved in the case examined. I would like to stress that all this refers to that specific moment because, as Senator D'Anna said, we are in the precautionary phase and therefore there is a debate going on. This assessment therefore concerns the assumptions that the Code provides for with regard to the precautionary phase, regardless of the formation of the evidence that is determined during the debate in order to establish a definitive judgment. The review court also took over the evidence provided on the basis of the precautionary measure and considered it sufficient in terms of the adequacy of the measure applied. Since the procedural instrument provided for in the order for the verification of the substance of the application of the precautionary measure has been activated, neither the results nor the reasons are given here, because the procedure provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that there is an order of the gip, the review and an appeal in Cassation (which I do not know if it has already been decided and deposited). I would remind you that, according to the peaceful jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation and the disciplinary section of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the measures issued by the judicial authority are liable to disciplinary union only in case of anonymity, i.e. adoption outside of any procedural scheme, that is macroscopic error, serious and inexcusable negligence. These circumstances are not, in evidence, detectable in the present case, expected the aforementioned confirmation by the review court, having to exclude the admissibility of any censorship related to the assessment of the fact and the evidence collected, just the guarantee clause provided for in article 2, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 109 of 2006 according to which, outside the hypotheses of unlawful disciplinary strictly provided by law, the activity of interpretation of norms of law and that of evaluation of the fact and the evidence do not give rise to disciplinary responsibility. There is therefore no room for action to be taken by the Minister of Justice. Moreover, the possibility to activate the additional judicial remedies provided for in the legality check of the above measures remains open. It is therefore clear that the right of defence can be exercised in all the degrees of judgment, that there are judicial remedies that the subject, the citizen, has the right to activate and to whose procedural verification must of course be adhered to. With regard to this phase, being an interpretative activity and having been issued these measures, according to our Ministry there are no conditions to activate inspection measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u21	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Ferri, but I can only say that I am totally dissatisfied, because I have received an answer which is not relevant to the question. I did not question the Minister to intervene in favour of Cosentino. We know the procedure: Cosentino's lawyers will follow the path provided for in the procedures and regulations. I asked for an inspection to ascertain what the prosecutors wrote in the order for custody, namely that Cosentino has a network of people that he has located at the top posts of political and administrative institutions that have concrete possibilities to do activities on behalf of criminal organisations. All this due to a debt of gratitude to Cosentino himself who, in turn, must carry out grateful actions in favour of the clans. It is an offense to the institutions mentioned here and to this House that prosecutors can do this, without the subject of denial, because in the state it is an insult, and on the basis of this keeping an uncensored person in prison, with an ongoing procedure. It would suffice to say this in order to understand that the requirements of precautionary measures do not exist, but it is seen because the subject would be socially dangerous in that he knows me, Senator Giovanardi, Senator Barani or Senator Calderoli, who are present here and that I allow myself to quote. Of the two one o'clock: or we are four morons who in the morning do actions in favor of the clans without noticing or, due to a debt of friendship or gratitude to Cosentino, we lend ourselves to actions in favor of the clans. GIOVANARDI (NCD). It's a shame! D'ANNA (GAL). If this is an assumption that a person can be held in prison, ours is not a civilized country. I do not want to question the Undersecretary, who gave me the answer that he could, but let me remind this House of the empty phrase of Voltaire: "Do not show me your palaces but your prisons, for it is from them that you measure the degree of civilization of a nation." Dear Undersecretary, if people for these reasons can stay in prison, we must be ashamed of being Italian. [[Applause from Senators Barani and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u22	Senator D'Anna, I'm sorry to correct you, but I didn't have the pleasure of meeting Nicola Cosentino, so you'd be three and not four.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u23	Mr President, I have, together with Senator Amati, signed this question concerning the failure to renew the supplementary health policy for the staff of the National Fire Department, which, as the Undersecretary knows, works 365 days a day, 24 hours a day. This policy covered medical expenses not covered by the National Health Service in the event of an accident at work carried out by this staff. I have felt a great deal about this issue because I know that the National Assistance Work (ONA), which previously signed the National Health Service's integration policy, is now a commissioner and its management is blocked. Since 1 January 2013, the Fire Departments are in fact without supplementary insurance policy. I had submitted to the Undersecretary, whom I thank for his presence, also the possibility of giving immediate answers to this important issue through INAIL, so as to make progress in a clearer and less complicated way. At least this seemed to me, and that's why I asked the Ministry to have some answers about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u24	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u25	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Valentini, in placing the issue of insurance for accidents at work by firefighters to the attention of the Government, asks for the assignment of the resources necessary to allow the renewal of the supplementary health policy, as well as the possible adoption of measures aimed at bringing the insurance coverage of the personnel of the Corps back to the competence of the INAIL. It should be noted that the National Work provides the moral, cultural and material assistance of the members of the Body, as well as of their families and orphans. For the pursuit of its institutional purposes, the institution is financed through resources from a fund of the Ministry of the Interior on which in 2013 more than 3 million euros have flowed. The Board of Directors of the institution has made provision for this to be used for the provision of periodic contributions, covering the years 2011 and 2012, not granted in the years of competence due to insufficient resources, and for extraordinary contributions due to death. This is in order to compensate, at least in part, for the lack of the health policy that, as mentioned in the questioning, was cancelled at the end of January 2013 due to the need to ensure the financial and economic balance of the institution's budget. In this regard, I would point out, however, that in the budget law of the State for the year 2014 and the multiannual budget 2014-2016, for the National Opera a financial envelope of approximately 6.4 million euros has been previewed, that will allow the conclusion of a new health insurance in favor of the staff of the Body. Similarly, for the years 2015 and 2016 financial allocations of more than €6 million are foreseen. I would point out, however, that following the incompatibility of the positions held by the representatives of the Administration of the Interior in the governing and management bodies of the National Opera, an extraordinary commissioner was appointed, by decree of the Prefect of Rome of 16 April last, who, in addition to the ordinary management of the institution, will have to make the appropriate changes to the statute in relation to the composition of the organs. Only when the new composition has been defined, will the insurance policy be drawn up, by means of a call for tenders for the choice of the broker. With regard, on the other hand, to the specific hypothesis of bringing back the staff of the Body within the framework of the system of protection measures and assistance INAIL, I recall that the activity of extinction of fires carried out by permanent and voluntary staff is expressly excluded from the compulsory insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases. It should also be said that Law No 214 of 2011 provides for the repeal for the generality of the civil servants of the institutions of the determination of the dependence of the infirmity on cause of service, of the fair compensation, of the reimbursement of the expenses of stay for cause of service and of the privileged pension, leaving, where provided, the competence in the matter of protection of the infirmities dependent on cause of service to the compulsory insurance against accidents and occupational diseases, managed by the INAIL. The same legislation expressly provided that the fair compensation, the privilege pension and the other institutions mentioned above continue to apply to personnel belonging to the security-defense and fire-aid sectors. In addition, the recent 2014 Stability Act, with reference to support measures in favour of disabled personnel for reasons of service, has implemented a significant equalisation intervention, providing application also in favour of the staff of the Corps of the derogation - already operating in favour of the Armed Forces and police - to the abolition of the additional economic benefits for the disabled of service belonging to the generality of the civil servants. The analysis of the current legislation of the sector shows that, in favour of the staff of the Body, there is a varied system of support and protection measures, of particular importance, able to guarantee interventions of a social-privilege and welfare nature, as well as of a compensatory-free nature, very favorable, to which are added, using the requirements of law, assumptions benefits. On the whole, therefore, the regulatory framework of the above-mentioned institutions ensures to the staff of the Body adequate social security, welfare and compensation benefits and in any case not inferior to those recognized by the INAIL.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u28	Mr Valentini (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General, who is always very timely in his answers, who also gives further details of the questions put forward. However, I do not understand (and I would just like to mention this): at this moment the injured firefighters have insurance policy or the ONA still has to ban the invitation to tender? I ask why, however, things go, whatever the government's choices are, the most important thing is not to leave a vacuum on such a big problem. Moreover, there has been a great deal of increase in both firefighters' accidents when they are helping and deaths. It must therefore be understood whether, at this time, beyond everything (I note with satisfaction that funding has been provided for ONA), we are able to provide insurance cover for these accidents as soon as possible. We cannot, in fact, leave workers in the State, at the service of the State, without insurance cover for accidents. However, I still believe - and I think the Secretary's answers seem to me that there is such a fundamental conviction - that it should be the INAIL who then has a direct relationship, as with all the other workers, with the fire department and to cover these issues. In fact, even for these organizations, for these works of assistance, important in our past and perhaps also in our future, we should proceed to the overcoming, in order to ensure that objectively all accidents can be covered by an institute that has this precise purpose, overcoming what was planned in the past and leaving these works to do other, that it is not to cover accidents and deaths of firefighters. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u29	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-262.ana.u30	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 17 June, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.39 p.m.
