ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 10 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I would ask colleagues to lower the volume of the item because it is difficult even to read the agenda. I would remind you that the general debate continued in the afternoon sitting. Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly facing a very important debate. However, before dealing with this debate on the subject, the question I asked myself is whether it is important for the country and for the citizens or is more important for the President-in-Office of the Council. The feeling that I have heard President Renzi's words and seen them written in the newspapers is that his priority is not to give concrete answers for the reformulation of the Constitution, so that it is more effective and responds more to the current needs, but responds to his precise government strategy, that of asking each of his ministers to launch a reform. It doesn't matter whether the content is useful or not, whether the reform is addressed with the right attention, with all the necessary insights. The President-in-Office of the Council, in his role as a salesman of promises, words and chatter, needs his ministers to carry out reforms continuously, so that he can sell them as a solution to all our problems. The risk is that this measure also represents a product that will certainly not solve the problems of our people, which is not a priority for the country, but that simply gives the President of the Council the opportunity to say: "I am a great reformer, I act quickly, I am determined, I am resolute, I am not encountering obstacles and, if I meet them, I overcome them with my strength and determination." The problem is that in this case we are dealing with the Constitution and not with a law, as can be any of the ones we are going to face and which we have dealt with in this House. We cannot, therefore, allow the grandeur of the President of the Council to prevail, his narcissism, his need to protect his image. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He is focused on defending his image as innovator and decision-maker and little interest in the content of the reform. So much so that the reform that you have proposed to the Commission in fact is very different from what we are dealing with today. But he's fine with the same thing; the important thing is that a few messages come to public opinion, which represent not concrete things, but exclusively a return of image for himself: he who overcomes the resistance of the political class in wanting to simplify and in wanting to reduce compensation, because he represents the protest of the citizens against the Palace. If these are the prerequisites for this reform, we are not there, because we should deal with the texts on the substance and see if they actually have positive implications. On the basis of the text we are dealing with, I believe that there are some positive elements and it is right to acknowledge that. The overcoming of the perfect (or even-handed) bicameralism could be a good thing and could allow the laws to pass through the branches of Parliament more easily; but we do not even have the certainty, because with the changes that have been inserted there is still the possibility for the Senate to request the discussion of all the laws within ten days after their launch, allowing the House to analyze them later and, if necessary, to take its own decisions. It is, therefore, a partial overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, obviously for some skills. The decision to delete the CNEL is also a positive one, because it is probably an outdated body, which adds nothing to the functions of the various ministries and parliamentary institutions. Apart from these changes, it should be added that the reduction of the members of the Senate is also a positive aspect, not only because it is required by public opinion, but also because I believe that this will enable the Senate Chamber to function better. However, this reduction should also apply to the House of Deputies: I believe that an Assembly with a smaller number of protagonists would raise the role of the individual elected. Taking part in an assembly of 630 Members risks transforming the individual Member into a number that is irrelevant in the formulation of the various measures, while two Chambers reduced by number of members would increase the authority of the individual elected and lead to more direct and faster solutions in the approval of the legal texts. This does not mean removing representation from the citizens, because the problem of representation is linked exclusively to the way in which they elect their representatives and not to the number of elected representatives. I believe that this Parliament could work quietly with fewer Members and fewer senators. This is the model that has been used, for example, to reduce the so-called costs of politics by Senator Calderoli when, in the past years, he had approved a measure that effectively reduced the number of members of municipal and provincial assemblies and city councilors representing such assemblies. Let us remember that the only reform that reduced the number of representatives in the territorial institutions was launched by Senator Calderoli. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] That is the way to meet the demand for a reduction in policy costs. The wrong instrument is to abolish them without then there being more representation for the citizens, because when it is decided to abolish in fact only provincial councils the costs related to the structure of the Provinces remain, probably with always less resources and therefore with greater difficulty to give answers to the citizens; the provincial councillors and the city councilors are eliminated but in fact the possibility is taken away from the citizens to elect their own representatives, to control the functioning of these agencies and is faced exclusively, or almost, with the bureaucracy. I don't think this is the right model for a mature democracy. We can reduce the number of members of the assemblies, but it is absolutely not possible to eliminate them, otherwise the democratic representation of the citizens is eliminated. After all, the elected should be a filter, a way of representing, in the dialectic between the citizen and the state apparatus, the needs of the people. If we eliminate this intermediate figure of the elected by the citizens, they will face only the public apparatus, but we must remember that these very good officials are certainly technically skilled and perhaps are often more skilled than political representatives or elected representatives in the various institutional fora, but they do not have an electoral mandate in order to become the only interpreters of the need to give services, to approve laws and to coordinate the activities of our territories. The model must therefore be the elective one. One of the debates in this House concerned the possibility of abolishing the eligibility of senators and entrusting the representation of this House to regional councillors and mayors. It is certainly an important issue, but at the moment I find it difficult to understand whether we are more representative than the citizens, that we have been elected by a system that does not provide for the expression of preference and therefore of the voice of the citizen, or whether regional councillors and mayors are more representative than good or bad, even if they have made serious mistakes in some cases, are actually elected with the preferences of the citizens. In the face of this debate, I have questioned myself and I do not know honestly whether the right answer is that the 315 senators present in this House are more representative or whether the representatives of the local self-government could be better represented. I do not venture into this debate, because many of my colleagues have already expressed their opinion, but I merely say that I still feel the danger that regional councillors and mayors elected in this Senate by their colleagues will hardly be able to follow properly and effectively the work of their respective institutional bodies (Comuni and Regions) and at the same time the work of the Senate. In fact, I have just spoken about the timing (ten days to challenge or in any case to request the examination of the measures launched by the Chamber of Deputies, thirty days to discuss them), but at the same time it is necessary to ensure the presence in the Regional Councils participating in the proceedings of the Chamber or, for the mayor of a large city, to govern its City: I wonder, therefore, if these tasks exercised simultaneously will allow the proper functioning of the Senate of the Republic. It is a doubt that will remain if the reform is launched. This shows that perhaps the effects of this measure have not been fully taken into account. Then there are elements - in my opinion - which are negative in relation to the text that we have adopted, on which I have no doubt. I am referring, for example, to the confirmation that five of the 100 representatives who will sit in this House will be appointed by the President of the Republic. I thought that at least in this reform it was noted that this institution is outdated and, in a sense, it is not correct with respect to the principle that the representatives of the people should be elected by the people themselves. Five out of a hundred senators will represent - if this text is adopted - one out of twenty representatives of this House. Since we are all equal before the law and have equal rights as citizens, it is incomprehensible that to a citizen, as authoritative as the President of the Republic can be, the right to appoint, at his express will and in accordance with his visions of those who deserve such recognition, five representatives should be recognized; to the individual citizen - each of us will have the right to vote - a much lower right, namely the possibility of electing a mayor, a regional councillor, who will then allow us, through his vote, to represent ourselves with the vote of a colleague. This is the new parameter of democracy that is intended to be affirmed in this House, except for one person, for a citizen, that is, except for the President of the Republic, to whom the right to elect directly five representatives of this House is conferred. I believe that this measure is totally inadmissible and outdated. I do not question the authority of the senators for life: this is not the problem, because they could also be more titled than each of us to represent the Italian people; I remember, however, that they were not elected by the citizens. Therefore, the right and correct criterion would be what was always passed through the vote. I conclude on a topic that is very dear to me, that of autonomy. I can accept any statement, even that our positions are not acceptable. However, I find it unacceptable that Article 119 should still be regarded as a rule indicating the principles of federalism within the Constitution. An article in which it is established that the law of the State establishes an equitable fund, without restrictions of destination, for territories with less fiscal capacity per inhabitant is an understandable text, in some ways even acceptable if we all agree, that, regardless of the tax capacity of each territory, everyone makes available what he has and then the resources are distributed in a fair way with respect to the number of inhabitants. This is the attempt of the Commission's amendment on so-called standard costs, which has fortunately been approved at the request of Senator Calderoli. There is, however, the next step that ruins all this, already contained in Article 119, in which it is expected that "to promote economic development, cohesion and social solidarity, to remove economic and social imbalances, to promote the effective exercise of the rights of the person (...) " and for all the rest the State allocates additional resources and carries out special interventions in favour of certain municipalities, provinces, metropolitan cities and regions". In essence, with this paragraph of Article 119 of the Constitution it is stated that, beyond the principles of equitable redistribution of resources, the State has the possibility to do what it wants: and that is what it has done in the last fifty years, penalising precisely those territories that, from a contributory point of view, have always been those that have paid the most and have escaped the least. In the face of this injustice, I find it difficult to recognize myself in Article 119. From the territory I represent, as an elected senator in the Veneto constituency, is emerging an ever greater insuffering, which perhaps is not known here in Rome at a distance of many kilometers, but which has found expression through a law voted by the Regional Council that provides for the indictment of a referendum with the request to hear the citizens of Veneto on the option of the independence of that Region. This law was voted by 30 votes out of 61 by the regional councillors, so certainly not only with the votes of the representatives of the North League, but also by other political parties. All this happened after four provincial councils out of seven had voted on the same request, remembering that, of the seven, two are commissioners therefore could not even express themselves, and that 181 municipal councils, therefore one third of those of Veneto, voted in favour of the request for referendum. With this information, which perhaps has not arrived here in Rome, I want to show you the feeling that many of our fellow citizens are experiencing in Veneto, that they are not being treated fairly. We Venetians do not ask for extraordinary things, ours is not a selfish battle as we have wanted to say for twenty years, but it is a battle of justice. If it is right to make resources collected in all territories available on the territory in a fair and per capita manner, it is equally right that, once collected, they should be redistributed in accordance with a principle of equity, which is currently not practiced. Veneto is located between two regions with a special status, the Trentino-Alto Adige and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which we do not want to take away the autonomy that they have won, but we simply want to be treated in the same way, because we are in the paradoxical situation of being discriminated against both with respect to them and with respect to other regions with an ordinary statute that receive more resources per capita than those of our Region and others of the North. This is unacceptable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It has always been, but it is even more so today, at a time when resources are being cut off from our local authorities and when it is likely that it will be impossible to comply with the Stability Pact this year, making our mayors appear as unprepared and incapable people, while in reality they do not even have sufficient resources to guarantee the minimum essential services. This is the reality that we will be facing this year. This government, as well as the previous Monti and Letta Governments, have tried to transfer the responsibilities of increasing the tax burden to local administrators, but in reality the rules that have imposed these choices all derive from the central government. I remember that the North in general has a resource deficit of 60 billion (21 billion in Veneto), and that over the years these resources have been provided to the other Regions for their needs. Until a few years ago this mechanism stood, while today it is no longer so. We need those resources to ensure minimum services, as I said, and above all to lower, not using them, the tax burden that has now become unbearable. Our companies close for the responsibility of the state, which imposes an unsustainable tax burden, especially after the introduction of the euro. We expect great changes and we will propose them through our amending force with proposals that we will present on time, in which it will appear quite clear what our positions are with regard to this text. So much irony can be done on the subject of independence, it can be thought that they are preposterous or ridiculous positions; one will also try not to talk about it in order to stifle this feeling. All I'm saying is that if the central governments continue to treat Veneto, and the North in general, as they are doing, through taxes and consequently unemployment and misery for our people, the path of independence could become the only one possible to save our territories. So before it's too late, give answers to those who wait for them and those who ask for more respect and greater justice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u10	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u11	Colleagues all, today we continue to discuss not a constitutional reform, but a real disrupting project of the State, which we will all have the duty to stem with all our strength, and that is what the 5 Star Movement will do: a harsh opposition to this project. Giorgio Napolitano said, about the Federal Senate, that then corresponds to that of today: all that remains is to appeal to citizens to prevent the promulgation of a law of shocking reform, contradictory, producer of conflict and paralysis in relations with the institutions. We wonder what or who made him change his mind, after that project was also rejected by the 2006 referendum, even if we all know the answer. Moro also said to pay attention to the changes of the second part of the Constitution because they affect the inviolable rights of the First (it was April 1948). This is exactly what would happen with the new Senate of the Regions and Italicum, which concentrate power in the hands of the Prime Minister. Why, then, instead of commemorating statesmen when we do a minute's silence in here, and maybe even peel off our hands and fill our mouths, do we not remember them for their democratic heritage and their great considerations? This is one of the greatest forms of hypocrisy in this Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This reform - as all my colleagues have already said; we have been trying to make it clear for days - will be irreversible, a fall without a chance of recovery. The Senate that will emerge, in fact, combined with an elected Chamber with a majority system such as Italicum, combined with the greater powers granted to the Premier by this same reform and the possibility for this majority to elect in solitary the main principals of democracy (President of the Republic, judges of the Constitutional Court, members of the CSM) will make impossible any adjustment of the disasters that we are making in this House. Here, we have spoken of the German system, the French system; especially on this side of the hemicycle I have heard great panegyrics about how good the systems of the other States are, but unfortunately we are in Italy, and in judging the goodness of the reform, we have a duty to start from the Italian historical-political context and not from the German one. In Italy there have been alternate governments led by enlightened politicians like Aldo Moro (which in fact has been eliminated and now, after thirty years we start a commission of inquiry when time has been the greatest and the most just judge), but those of good politicians have succeeded governments led by politicians collused with the mafia, by piduists, by corrupt or tax evaders, who, despite the double reading that so slows down the legislative process, have managed to propose shameful laws ad personam, such as the Alfano praise, the Schifani praise, the law Cirielli to save the former Premier from the right trials, the law Giudicandrea, launched by Prime Minister Andreotti and the head of the Cossiga State in February 1992, to extend by two years the prosecutor of the Republic of Rome and allow him to dismiss the trial on Gladio. There are many ad personam laws that worked well and were very quick in this bicameral system that you consider so imperfect, such as the one against Judge Caselli, wanted by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who as prosecutor of Palermo had dared to trial politicians Giulio Andreotti, Marcello Dell'Utri, Totò Cuffaro and others, recognized by the courts of the Republic guilty of having had relations with us. So, don't tell us that the bicameral system doesn't work because, when there is to protect the usual known, it works very well and very quickly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Therefore, we say no to the elimination of the Senate wanted by the Government, by Berlusconi and by the President of the Republic because this is the triad that decided this unholy reform. I ask you a question: do you think that if there had been monocameralism at the time of Giulio Andreotti, Silvio Berlusconi, Bettino Craxi or Francesco Cossiga we would have solved the problems of Italy or would we have had a dictatorship with reforms for the benefit of the rulers and certainly not the citizens? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we want to respond to this situation? What is most striking is the absence of all those who were outraged about Berlusconi's proposal in 2005, then fortunately rejected by the confirmed referendum. Where are you? Where are all the people who showed up? That reform dared less than this yet generated an important mobilization of intellectuals, who rightly shouted at the scandal in defence of the Constitutional Charter. Now, Matteo Renzi is carrying out Berlusconi's 2005 project or, worse still, perhaps aspires to the piduist achievement of Licio Gelli, for twenty years pursued by Silvio Berlusconi and everything goes under silence. Mr Di Maggio rightly called it an accomplice silence. This is not an ordinary silence: it is an accomplice silence in this whole area of Parliament and also in the newspapers. The plan of democratic rebirth, found and seized in 1982 in a double fund of a suitcase of Maria Grazia Gelli, daughter of Licio Gelli, venerable master of the Masonic Loggia P2, together with the memorandum on the political situation in Italy, was published in the proceedings of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Masonic Loggia. I invite you to imagine something. I belong to a generation that was still taught civic education; then you eliminated it also to take away the memory of what it was, of our heroes and of our partisans. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I remember that on the school books there was this beautiful Italian flag and the teachers said that it has green color like the meadows of our Italy, white as the conscience of the constituent Fathers and red as the blood of our partisans dead in the mountains. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's where our constitution came from. Now I ask you, newly formed Fathers, what will you say to your grandchildren? Did we take the new constitutional form from the double bottom of the suitcase of the daughter of one of the greatest delinquents in Italy? That's what you'll tell your grandchildren. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The democratic rebirth plan had essential objectives and consisted of a series of constitutional reforms and changes divided in a very organized way into short, medium or long-term objectives, the aspects of which are quite disturbing because they resemble much of this reform. They had the aim of abolishing any parliamentary and legal control over government activity. The Licio Gelli programme provided for an urgent plan for short-term emergencies which included institutional measures (recording institutions) and measures of an economic and social nature. In the judicial system, the most urgent change was considered to be the civil liability of the magistrates. That's got to give us some thought. In Parliament's order the programme indicated as a priority the de facto division of competences between the two chambers (political function in the Chamber of Deputies and economic function in the Senate of the Republic), the modification of the respective Regulations (to strengthen the principle of the relationship between majority and government, on the one hand, and opposition, on the other hand, in place of the current assembleristic tendency) and the adoption of the principle of the temporal sessions according to the implementation of the government program, which recalls so much the programme "a reform per month" illustrated with slides by our Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. Among the long-term objectives of the P2 we find an indication of the need for new electoral laws for the House, of a mixed type, reducing the number of MPs and, for the Senate - heard, heard - of a representation of second degree, regional, economic, social and cultural interests. So, exactly what you're proposing. In addition, it was planned to amend the Constitution to give the House political prominence, with the appointment of the Prime Minister, and the Senate economic preponderance, with the examination of the budget. And, again, the prediction that the decrees-laws must be inemendable. How many times has the question of trust in government decrees-laws been raised in recent months, making them, in fact, inemendable? Our impression is that for years - and it continues in this legislature - man's perspective has only been at the command that is carried out with impressive systematicity. What impresses, and for which congratulations would almost have to be done, lies in the government's ability to even implement improvements so that the plan has shorter times. This, gentlemen, is an absolute delusion. The protection of the nominees, sanctioned by Porcellum, first, and by Italicum, today, will be sealed by a constitutional reform that will definitively remove all democratic connotations and defense of the principles of participation to the citizens. The centralization of powers in the hands of a single subject, the control that is given to them through the degeneration in the same moment of Regions and Senate, sincerely, makes us shudder. It is a form of absolute totalitarianism. Is that what our constituent Fathers wanted? They, unlike us, put themselves around a table, keeping away the party flags, in a necessary and useful conformation for the country; a country of which to be proud in time for the democratic principles contained in the Charter, which you now want to tear. A perfectible Charter; in fact, like all human things, it is perfectible because it is generated by human beings, who are never perfect. Unfortunately, however, one has the presumption to do so through a unilateral action and without comparison, directed towards the net cut of the legs to the representative city: this is called regime. Above all, what we are saying is that if this Charter is perfectible, it cannot be perfected by delegitimized parliamentarians such as all of us here. The attempt is clear and just as dangerous: emptying all political faculties and maintaining the slum; absolute control of all regional functions adding a useless control that would save an institutional facade that would fill only the satisfaction of those who today, thanks to those inemendable and constrictive acts of urgency feared by Gelli, already distort every law, constitutional precept and judgment of the Court. Montesquieu would mourn bitter tears and would like to resurrect in order to maintain the separation of powers, that separation of powers that so frightens you and that today becomes centralization, exactly in the same organizational and structural direction of the European Union, where the tendency, in theory, is to try to give more democracy. But the Chancellor's Syndrome draws a very different plan: seeking democracy for the old continent which, in reality, masks a depletion of the potential of peoples, alienating the powers of the governments of individual states. A design, therefore, much larger. Let us now come to the great lies that accompany the motivations of this reform. Firstly, the fact that legislative times are too long because of the dual reading of the Chamber-Senate. I have already explained that this is false because when laws affect certain people or certain criminal associations, they are done very quickly. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] Official data from the Senate offices show that the approval of an ordinary law takes place on average in 53 days. The decree of urgency in 46 days and financial laws in 88 days. Delays are not the fault of bicameralism, but of the inefficiencies of ministerial bureaucracy. As far as costs are concerned, this is the biggest lie, the most populist and the most unfair, because in order to reduce Parliament's costs it would be enough to halve the allowances and salaries by obtaining in a few days a much more substantial saving than would be obtained by abolishing the institutions of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The reforms to be made are others, in implementation of the Constitution and not to abolish it; that Constitution that Calamandrei defined as the great unfinished. Firstly, the conflict of interest, in compliance with Article 51 of the Constitution. What happened to the conflict of interest in the most corrupt country in Europe? The issue of conflict of interest is the very essence of democracy; it is the first cause of corruption. The first cause of poverty of this people is not democracy, but corruption. Other essential reforms concern the equality of social rights, social income, the fight against the privileges of Quirinale, Chamber, Senate, Regions and participating societies (which waste a sea of money that will never reach the citizens). A planned policy is needed that sees the synergy between the public and the private and that tends to a socially sustainable economy (the dream of the 5 Star Movement), choosing sectors that can drive development according to an economy based on respect for the environment, on the valorization of the immense artistic heritage (which is falling apart) and landscape (which we buried in the garbage), on the fight against the great works like the TAV and the MOSE, which cost six times more than the real cost, with serious repercussions on the citizens. I am also thinking of the fight against corruption in Europe, with the squandering of funds of EUR 7 billion, without benefits for work. We, as the 5 Star Movement, want a just Italy in a just Europe that does not feed the lawlessness or the injury of labour rights and social income. I will conclude with a quotation - since we have made so many, but this is a little different - from William Shakespeare's Enrico VIII, which is a warning to all of us illegitimate parliamentarians of this wretched XVII legislature: "Beware of my fall, and of what has ruined me." I strongly exhort you, rid yourself of ambition: it was the sin of the angels, so what can man, the image of his creator, hope to obtain it? Love yourself after everyone else, have the hearts of those who hate you. Corruption no longer makes honesty. In your right hand it always brings a sweet peace, to silence the envious tongues. Be fair, live without fear. Act only in the interest of your homeland, your God and the truth. If I fall, you will fall as a blessed martyr. The real substance of the ambitious is simply the shadow of a dream. And I would like to tell you, even in response to Matteo Renzi, that he has accused some senators of fighting this reform on economic issues, that being in here for us ordinary citizens is not at all simple. It hurts my soul to witness all this devastation. Honestly, I am ashamed to be part of this legislature and to witness the destruction of what I have long considered the most sacred place in our Republic, devastated by unworthy people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u12	Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u13	Madam President, we are in the middle of the first stage of deliberations provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution, which will only end when the two chambers have adopted an identical text. This is the most important phase, because the second resolution provides for the two Chambers only general discussion and final vote, without amendments, preliminary and suspensive questions, requests for deletion or agendas. No less than three months shall pass between the first and second resolutions. It is therefore still possible to amend the text which came out of the 1st Commission by means of the amendments. It is important to do so now, because we risk that the pressures to make early de facto freeze the current situation, in order to still have the vote of the two Houses on an identical text as soon as possible. Instead, I think that there is a need for changes, which are necessary for the balance of the constitutional system that is being redesigned. Our Constitution is a harmonious set of weights and counterweights, which draw the balance of powers within the system in full concordance with modern constitutionalism. I quote Professor Guarino: The power must therefore be divided between several subjects and organs in such a way that none of them is in a position to overpower others. The plurality of the constitutional bodies means that they are mutually independent and are in a state of equilibrium, which is capable of effectively guaranteeing the role that each of them is assigned to. The reform proposal that comes out of the referent Commission, although modified to significant points in relation to the basic text, with a great deal of work, seems not to have solved the risk of altering the necessary balance between powers, for example in relation to the election of the President of the Republic and the members of the other guarantee bodies. The solution found, with the amendment of Rule 83 - whereby the quorums for the election of the President of the Republic are redefined so that, after the eighth ballot, the absolute majority is sufficient - does not seem to me to change the fact that the parliamentary majority can elect itself the President, who besides exercising a power to postpone the laws, essential counterweight in the legislative process, appoints a third of the members of the Constitutional Court, another fundamental guarantee body. This is the effect of the combined arrangement of the structure and composition of the new Senate and the hyper-majoritarian features of the electoral law for the Chamber of Deputies. There could have been other solutions. For example, many amendments have been tabled relating to the reduction in the number of Members, which would have enabled the problem to be tackled and an appropriate solution to be found. In particular, I am a signatory to a number of amendments where the reduction is assumed to be 100 senators, plus 6 elected abroad, and 315 or 470 Members. These amendments have been retabled in this House: we hope that we will be able to discuss and find more convincing convergences than the solution adopted. However, on the problems that have just been addressed, I would like to stress positively the change made in the Commission regarding the possibility for the Head of State to request a new resolution, even limited to specific provisions. Several times in recent years, in fact, we have seen what the doctrine has defined as dissenting or conditioned promulgations: just think of the events related to the conversion of the so-called decrees-milleproroghe laws. Faced with the introduction, when converting into law, of provisions not homogeneous with respect to the matter and the purpose of the original decree - according to the metaphor for which many wagons are added to the train passing through - the President of the Republic, recalling the most recent constitutional jurisprudence on the point, warned about the impossibility of resorting to partial promulgations, which would refer parts of the measure to the Assembly, so it is considered desirable to deepen and compare in Parliament, but without those provisions considered instead fully legitimate and conform to the constitutional dictation, avoiding with this the harmful effects of an ex tunc decadence. The solution adopted in the Commission therefore appears likely, while recognising the primacy of the Parliament-Governmental link in the determination of political direction, to fill in part the blank pages left by the Constituents, with particular regard to the important presidential powers over the formation of legislative acts, given the impartial role and however, as Kelsen taught, always halfway between law and politics. With regard to the amendments I have signed on the reduction in the number of Members, I would like to stress on the one hand that the position of elected members in the Senate abroad seems more appropriate, precisely because the Senate will no longer give confidence to the Government, and on the other hand that a reasonable reduction of Members would make the work of the Assembly more effective and manageable and certainly more effective and fruitful work in the Permanent Commissions, as well as allowing a more orderly democratic life for the various parliamentary groups. For this reason, if on the one hand it is appreciated the intention to limit the places of politics and, with them, its costs are to be reduced, on the other hand this reformist intention should not result in a lack of democratic representation, all the more in the presence of strong anti-political currents, in order to please those who risk giving in to constitutional solutions anti-parliamentary, that can lead to strong governments - a requirement shared by the various political forces successive in the years to lead the country - but weak counterweights, to the detriment of the parliamentary organ, so frustrated in its essential function of direction and control. In addition to the imbalance in the election of the President of the Republic, it seems to me problematic the relationship between the Government and Parliament on the legislative procedure that is reflected in the proposal that has emerged from the Commission. Although the link between Parliament and the Government is fundamental for the determination of political direction, according to the principle of separation of powers, in the reform proposal approved in the Commission, it seems that the political responsibility of the legislative acts adopted falls more on the Executive than on the legislative, thereby affecting the full respect of the ordinary allocation of the legislative function, as defined in the version accepted by our form of Parliamentary Government. The changes made to Rule 72, in fact, constitutionalize the so-called guillotine, already present in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and used for the first time also to the House in this legislature. We are faced with a legislative process in which the use of urgent decrees is now exorbitant (and I have to say that the Commission has intervened on the point); the use of the full replacement of the text, on which the question of trust is raised, takes off; there is a massive use of the delegated laws with many generic guiding criteria, and in addition the possibility for the Government to ask the House of Deputies to decide that a bill should be entered with priority and put to final vote within sixty days (the guillotine, precisely). All this suggests a huge compression of parliamentary work and an alteration of the relationship between the Government and Parliament on the legislative process. They are in fact choosing and determining a new type of political regime, with the predominance of the Commission over Parliament. In this sense, it seems to want to positive what certain doctrine has defined the constitutionalism of the crisis: it is the Executives who become increasingly important and the privileged place of representation moves from colleges to monocratic bodies. Today, the crisis of Parliament is opposed to the image of the Government as a unitary and coherent representative entity, whose capacity for decision and limits the effects that on the relationship of the State with its citizens has the dissolution of popular sovereignty and its legal categories, as a consequence of the processes of territorial relocation and globalization. This, however, contrasts with the preference for the ordinary law which in the intentions of the Constituents corresponded to the political centrality of Parliament in the form of government; centrality not understood as mere technical option in the organization of the process of legislative production, but rather as an expression of a clear choice on which should be the main driver of the political integration of the Republic. In essence, the democratic regime - carried out according to the discursive forms of political integration and the representative parliamentary model, at the moment contingent also linked to this global economic and financial crisis and the relative constant need for accelerated standardization (always urgent and always in a rush), in fact implemented mainly through the decree of urgency - is not suitable to respond to the needs of an environment more oriented to the speed and timeliness of decisions. The constitutional reform, therefore, in a number of respects, in particular those relating to the allocation of the legislative function between the Government and Parliament, seems almost to constitutionalize some precedents that have occurred in the practices of recent years and not perfectly positive, thus running the risk of limiting the same democratic decision-making model. I think that all this should be considered a little longer, in order to find better solutions to the problems of the effectiveness and efficiency of legislative work. At times, the difficulties in law-making are not only the result of bicameralism and the shuttle, but also of the lack of appropriate regulations and the inability to modify them. This brings us to the point on which we have discussed most, namely the composition of the Senate and its functions: I would like to say immediately that, in a system of differentiated bicameralism, I am in favour of an elective Senate, which does not give confidence to the Government, but which also fulfils the function of giving full representation to minorities and to different sensitivities, and for this reason should be elected on a regional basis, perhaps in conjunction with regional elections, but with absolutely proportional laws, guaranteeing gender equality. Professor Barbera, during his hearing in the 1st Commission, explicitly said that if there are constitutional changes - and we have them here - there is a need for him to be elected, otherwise the vote of an assembly not directly elected would be decisive for interventions on the Constitution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gatti, the time allocated to your group would have expired, however. GATTI (PD). But I would like to finish, Mr President; I am almost done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right. GATTI (PD). Thank you. Otherwise, it would be decisive - again according to Barbera - for the interventions on the Constitution, the vote of an Assembly not directly elected. I very much appreciated the work of the Commission, which has increased the powers of the Senate provided for in the Government's draft, but some remain excluded for which I believe bicameralism is essential. In addition to those already mentioned by several Members, I would like to focus briefly - perhaps for my life experience - on the laws relating to political and trade union rights, because we are in a phase of profound rethinking, of serious difficulties of the forms of representation and intermediate bodies and it would be essential that the debate on possible significant legislative interventions in these areas should involve the two Chambers. I am not here to repeat the proposal for the composition of the Senate that comes out of the work of the Commission, on which I do not agree, as I said. I note, however, that with that proposal, in my opinion, it will be very difficult for us to guarantee fully, both the representation of the smaller groups, and the gender representation in the Assembly: this because of the different regional laws present in the different regions and the possible agreements between groups - I think, for example, the smaller ones - or the lack of female presence in the Councils. I also think it is very questionable whether the mayors are elected by the regional councillors: on this point it would seem more consistent to entrust the election of mayors to an audience of municipal representatives. In this draft law, then, the problem of Article 68, which risks, except for the first paragraph relating to the indisputability of the vote and the opinions expressed in the role of parliamentarians, to generate problems with regard to the need to request authorization for interceptions and arrests, remains open. In this way, there is a diversity of treatment between regional senators and regional senators and non-senators. I have signed an amendment which deletes the second and third paragraphs of Rule 68 for all Members and Senators. As I understand it, many of these problems are linked precisely to the choice of a second level organism. In short, I am absolutely aware of the fact that the second-level elected representatives were originally elected by universal suffrage, but to carry out different functions of territorial government. And then, once senators, how is it possible to reconcile all these commitments? Professor Enzo Cheli also asks himself and, in an article that appeared a few days ago, proposes that councilors and mayors resign from their newly elected administrative roles senators. Finally, a final reflection. We are in a phase of great difficulty, in which the relationship between citizens and politics is very difficult: different forms of populism are affirmed, in Italy and in Europe. I think direct election is one of the ways of retiring a relationship with citizens. And perhaps it could be helpful to have more courage in predicting enhanced forms of popular participation. I do not agree with a model that seems to be established, for which citizens are not actors of the trials (the sovereign people), but referees who express themselves only at the end of the game, without ever entering the field. In short, democracy corrects itself with more democracy. This maxim in Tocqueville seems to me the most useful to try to get out of the complicated situation we are in. That is why I hope that, at the end of the second resolution, whatever the percentage of approval of the reform, it will be decided to go through the popular referendum anyway. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u14	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u15	President, representative of the Government, colleagues, you, elected by the people, gathered in this sovereign Assembly, must feel the immense dignity of your mission. It is up to you to give a face to the Republic, a soul to democracy, an eloquent voice to freedom. Behind you are the sufferings of millions of Italians; before you the hopes of the whole nation. Make the face of this Republic a human face. With these words, sixty-eight years ago, and precisely on June 26, 1946, Giuseppe Saragat opened the work of the constituent assembly which he presided over. Chosen by the people: three simple words and, at the same time, charged with an intense and profound meaning. Chosen by the people: three clear words, as clear and clear is the language of our Constitution, when it says that sovereignty belongs to the people. We should have learned from the style and language of the Constitution. A text of an exemplary clarity. Written with a deliberate simplicity that had a very clear objective for the constituent Fathers: to make the Constitution understandable to every citizen, even to the humblest and least educated, so that each citizen would become aware of his or her rights and duties. Citizen. Over 2000 years ago, in ancient Rome for the Roman citizen, or for those who had or achieved the privilege of citizenship, there was no greater pride than being able to say: "Civis Romanus sum!". Every Roman citizen was in fact well aware of the rights and duties linked to his or her status and considered himself protected and untouchable in every place of the empire and even in foreign cities! Now I ask you: do you feel equally proud, secure and protected by legal certainty, today, an Italian citizen? "Sovereignty belongs to the people": subject, verb, complement. Impossible to make a mistake. These are concepts that all of us in this House and outside this House should bear in mind, especially when we are preparing to discuss a sensitive issue such as the reform of the Constitution. But obviously this is not the case, if we are called to examine and take the floor before a document that is so derogatory as uncrite and badly written! I say this because this text, rather than a reform of the Constitution, is yet another attempt to delegitimize the Constitution. Step by step, as President Renzi would say in his impeccable English (step by step, I say, that I am of the generation prior to that Telemaco and I did not even do the Erasmus), the design of the puzzle appears increasingly defined and disturbing every day: suppression of democratic guarantees, with a democratic and parliamentary Republic only in the name, a people who silences and someone else who decides for him! Already now - and for some time now - Parliament is increasingly reduced to an administrative office, which is only called upon to approve the laws enacted by the Government. And this happens, it is known to all, with the abuse of the decree-laws, that they should be homogeneous, targeted and have only the character of necessity and urgency, while they present themselves as the most baroque and varied of the Macedonians, with hidden many indigestible fruits, sometimes toxic to law and democracy. Unfortunately the constituent Fathers are no longer with us and what is worse not even the spirit, responsibility and pride that characterized them. We don't even look like senators anymore! We are divided into three categories: the more familiar jumpers to television cameras than to well legislate; the absent ones that count more than present; the hamsters that run in the wheel! An absurd run between hasty and fragmented committees and a often redundant Chamber of nothing where you listen more to yourself than to others. It's all about not getting anywhere. A turning point is therefore necessary. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I appreciate the desire to change, and we all know how much this country needs targeted action and appropriate reforms. But there is nothing that wastes as much time as the haste and nothing that makes you as wrong as the craving of wanting to do at all costs, without a complete, critical, exhaustive vision. Let's take this Senate reform, and the others coming, like the electoral law. Obviously, despite the Premier's announcements and the headlines of the press, the Senate will not disappear. But the elections will be abolished! The new senators who will take our place in this House will not be chosen by the citizens, but appointed by the parties by selecting the flower of regional councillors and mayors. And perhaps it will be known of preferential merit to have easily accumulated the greatest number of judicial troubles! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The new Senate will continue to elect the Head of State and members of the MSC and Parliamentary Appointments Council, will intervene in constitutional rules, but for the rest will only express non-binding opinions: it will no longer be able to approve, amend, or reject laws and will no longer vote for trust. We will have a Senate stripped of legislative power and an Executive who will actually be able to govern alone without the opposition being entitled to say not a single bau. The legislative power will coincide with the Commission, which will continue to dictate the march to the sound of confidence and will succeed in this very well, having already been done a thorough test. A House elected without preference, a useless Senate and a Government that alone makes the beautiful and bad weather. Where Gelli failed, Renzi arrived. ==References====External links== [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the overall picture that emerges with these reforms. With good peace of Saragat, De Gasperi, Calamandrei and all the constituent Fathers, this reform leads to a loss of democracy and freedom. And do not tell us that with this reform we will reduce the costs: the number of senators will be reduced, it is true, but the number of Members will remain unchanged and all the structures of Parliament will remain intact as well as the useless apparatuses of the Provinces, although renewed in the name and in the maquillage. And I do not list all possible direct and, above all, indirect costs of bad politics, from the administrations of the companies involved in the corruption of public procurement, because we all know how and where it could really be saved. The good turning point Renzi-Boschi does not improve the country's competitiveness, it does not effectively correct the vices of Parliament, but it merely converts the glorious institution of the Senate into a useless carriage, annexe for nominations in part-time travel to Rome. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] More can be done. You can do better than that. For example, halving the number of Members immediately, so as to have 315 Members and 315 senators, preserving the two elected chambers and giving different tasks. Or: if you really want to reform the Senate, you can think of leaving it elective for at least three quarters of the members, with a residual share of representatives of the Regions and Municipalities, thus having the possibility to eliminate the State-Regions Conference, which unnecessarily slows down the decision-making processes and which involves an unreasonable expenditure of resources. I would also add that, even in the case of a single-chamber parliamentary system (an option which I personally do not reject a priori and indeed I have always liked, but which at the moment is to be excluded for a long series of reasons), it should be the Senate itself, both for the lower costs and for historical reasons. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In ancient Rome there was the Senate, not the House. Senatus PopulusQue Romanus, the Senate and the Roman people. The Senate was then the most authoritative assembly and this institution remained despite the political and historical changes that have taken place to date. On one thing, however, President Renzi is not wrong: people want change. But one wondered what? And to do what? I would like to know if, when President Renzi and Minister Boschi walk down the street, they meet crowds of people who insist on turning the Senate into yet another useless body and wanting to spare themselves the effort of being able to choose. Another question: do the government really think that people loudly claim to replace the Porcellum with Italicum, which does not allow them to express their preferences and which will allow the parties to continue to appoint themselves as MPs until now? Perhaps if people knew the content of these reforms well (and we, as the 5 Star Movement, try, with responsibility, to make correct information), the desire to change would disappear. In the great trials you proceed in small steps and only on safe tracks, otherwise you either stumble or derail or you don't get to the goal. If you really want to change and do it seriously, maybe it would be better to act on the instruments that already exist, for example by amending the House and Senate Regulations. These are all issues for which a broad debate would be necessary, with due time. But - it is known - the government wants to run, bring home some reform even if hasty and curled, trying to prevent time from collapsing the thunderous 41 percent of artificial consent obtained at the European elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President Renzi, in fact, is the first to know that things are going and will go very differently from how he told it and he knows just as well that the Italians will soon understand the bluff. With these reforms, President Renzi assured himself of a leading role in history books, but his role as a politician, not as a great statesman and the judgement of historians on his government will be bad. Even if history is written by the winners, it will be difficult to deny the evidence and then it is not always said that you will be the winners and, if you are, it will not be forever anyway. In fact, to the many announcements and measures without implementing decrees, the only tangible concreteness that reaches the Italians is the increase in taxes, public debt and unemployment, and we are already in the second half of 2014. The citizens, expropriated of the right to choose Members and to elect Senators, will be left with a shadow of popular sovereignty, in the repealing referendums and in the laws of popular initiative. And even here the reform plans to raise the threshold of signatures: from 500,000 to 800,000 for the first and from 50,000 to 250,000 for the second. Only an insane thought can conceive such an attempt at reform to the detriment of democracy and freedom. But we will do everything we can to prevent this institutional, legal and political aberration from being carried out and, if we fail to do so, it will be the Italian people, all of them, who will prevent it. I want to remind you, if a sort of delusion of omnipotence has made someone forget it, that there will always be a need for the people, without whom all of us in here, from the President-in-Office of the Council to me, are nobody! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let's stay human! "Make the face of this Republic a human face," said Saragat, "Remember that democracy is not only a relationship between the majority and the minority, it is not only a harmonious balance of powers under the control of the sovereign one of the nation, but above all a problem of relations between man and man. Where these relationships are human, democracy exists; where they are inhuman, it is but the mask of a new tyranny. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u16	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u17	Mr President, I am very pleased with the repeated references made by Senator Fucksia to Saragat, to Calamandrei and to De Gasperi: after a few months of presence here in Parliament, these evocations by colleagues from the 5 Star Movement are important, a sign that the culture of the institutions is now pervading this whole House, and that is a positive fact. The thirty-year attempts to reform constitutional institutions recall the myth of Sisyphus, condemned to push for eternity a huge boulder on top of a mountain. Once it reached the summit, the rock invariably plummeted back downhill. Similarly, in recent years, apart from the speedy approval of the unhappy Title V, every time an organic reform of Part II of the Constitution was about to become concrete and operational, an obstacle prevented it and the boulder of reforms has always returned to its starting point. This sequence cannot be repeated again in this legislature, there are no more spaces for a renewed representation of the myth of Sisyphus. Public opinion would not understand and would not tolerate more than yet another failure of a political class that continues to talk about reforms without ever doing so. The constitutional bill before us does not redesign the whole of Part II of the Constitution, it does not set such an ambitious objective. It affects two points of greater weakness of our institutional system: equal bicameralism and regionalism. The first is an absolute rarity in parliamentary government regimes, on the second I do not think there is much to say, so much concord about the failures caused by the constitutional reform of 2001. The starting point of our reflection must therefore be that of the need and urgency to intervene. We can and must discuss the solutions with ease, but at a firm point we must arrive. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that I have read very carefully the speeches of many colleagues, such as some interviews these days, which I would not hesitate to call eccentric. This reform would be carried out under the pressure of a new oligarch, impersonated by President Renzi. The Senate is represented as a place populated by eunuchs under blackmail who bow to the will of the sovereign. What are we talking about? You're blackmailing me. We must recognize that politics - from the Bicamerale Bozzi to those Iotti and D'Alema - has debated for years of reforms without ever being able to do them. I would not like to make a mistake, but I believe that even in the electoral programs of the parties of the First Republic, starting from Christian Democracy, there was the overcoming of bicameralism. Now we are out of time: the fault is ours and there is no need to look for tyrants or representations of convenience of reality. This text links the two aspects of bicameralism and regionalism in a solution that seems balanced in its main lines, thanks to the rapporteurs and, in particular, to President Finocchiaro who has done a great job together with Senator Calderoli. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] The Senate becomes a representative assembly of Regions and Municipalities, according to a dominant model in comparative experience. Even with different formulas, these are the second Chambers of France, Spain, Germany and many other countries. In fact, the idea that the second Parliamentary Assembly should be the channel for the participation of local and regional authorities in the institutional summit and, in particular, the channel for participation in the legislative function is widespread throughout the world. Everywhere the second Chambers have less powers than those that represent the direct expression of the electoral body: they do not participate in the trust relationship and, in principle, the last word in the legislative function belongs to the so-called Lower House. The bill is therefore part of the more consolidated trend of contemporary constitutionalism. However, the Senate does not appear, after the work in the Commission, to be a Parliament without its significant role because it nevertheless has considerable powers, increased during the examination in the Commission, including in the field of monitoring the action of the Government and in the field of European Union policy (a call which would be strengthened in an amendment tabled with Mr Russo). With regard to the Regions, the bill corrects excesses and inconsistencies of the current Title V. It refers to the exclusive competence of the State matters of national strategic value; it introduces the so-called supremacy clause, i.e. the possibility for the State to legislate also in matters of regional competence when it is required to protect the legal and economic unity of the Republic or the protection of the national interest; it eliminates the so-called concurrent legislative competence, which has been not only a source of confusion, but also of a huge increase in litigation before the Constitutional Court. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] The draft law does not fail to intervene on sensitive aspects of the Parliament-Government relationship, providing, on the one hand, for a stricter discipline of the decree-laws and, on the other hand, establishing a real preferential lane for the government drafts according to the text of the so-called Commission of Alema and realizing an idea that dates back to the "Spadolini decalogue" in 1982. Synthetically, the draft law outlines a more rational institutional framework than the existing one. It certainly can be improved, but it cannot be prejudiced. The Commission's text has greatly strengthened the Senate's participation in the legislative function by increasing bicameral laws. I would, however, like to induce a reflection on the forecast for certain categories of laws that the House may not comply with the modifications proposed by the Senate only by ruling by an absolute majority in the final vote. It is paradoxical: nothing more than an attack on democracy! I object exactly the opposite. The practical operation of this mechanism depends on the electoral law, i.e. whether it ensures a majority and by what political margin and, at the political level, the holding of the majority. If the majority is large and stable, the clause may be irrelevant; otherwise, it may result in an unsuccessful blockade because nothing is said about the consequences of the failure to reach the quorum. This procedure raises doubts about the budgetary laws and the laws adopted on the basis of the supremacy clause. If narrow regional interests prevail within the Senate, there is a risk that it will be banned in politically decisive areas, bearing in mind that the Government will not be able to use the matter of trust in that Senate. Instead of following this path with uncertain results, it would be appropriate to think, following the example of other bicameral systems, of a conciliation committee, composed of Members and senators, which would draw up a text on which the House has the last word. Another problem. More clarity would also be necessary in order to regulate relations with the Special Statute Regions, which I believe enjoy in this reform of a highly privileged treatment. Let us be clear, if reform is to exist, it cannot stop at the borders of the Regions with a special statute. Of course, constitutional reform must be linked to the reform of the electoral law of the House. If the Senate is no longer directly elected, it is necessary that the electoral law of the House ensures adequate spaces of representativeness and allows voters to choose their representatives by means of the mechanisms that are possible: either preferences or colleges. A very sensitive issue is that of the election of the President of the Republic, which is not advisable to leave to the total availability of the political majority, also considered the numerical imbalance that is expected between the Chamber and the Senate. The characteristics of the presidential role suggest that it is preferable for a person to be held by a person who receives the consent of a large part of Parliament in a joint sitting. For this reason, in recent days and in the amendments, I have taken up a solution already proposed to the constituent assembly, not by a dangerous subversive, but by the rapporteur on the form of government, Egidio Tosato, which combines parliamentary election with a possible second phase of the electoral process of direct choice of the Head of State by the electoral body. Tosato proposed that if the President of the Republic had not been elected after three ballots with the quorum of two thirds of the members of Parliament in common sitting, it would be carried out by direct universal suffrage, after designation by the Chambers of a majority candidate and a minority candidate. Mr Tosato believed that Parliament would be more easily able to obtain a two-thirds majority and that the President was, at least in part, an expression of the minority vote. See that in the last legislature, or even since the time I was President of the House, the introduction of the majority system has also given rise to the point of the possibility of providing for the Presidency of the House and Senate a qualified quorum to subtract it from the possible tyranny of the majority. If this were completely impossible, it would have been preferable - said Tosato - that the majority of the people should decide. The combination of the two election systems performs a dual function. On the one hand, the possibility of election is a deterrent to radical opposition and leads to the identification at the parliamentary stage of the most suitable figure to represent national unity. On the other hand, the preventive parliamentary passage, with the forecast that only the two names most voted in the last ballot will be submitted to the popular vote, avoids plebiscite drift: a snare hidden in the direct election from which figures can emerge that from the appeal to the people can find reasons to give the figure of the President a political office destined to disrupt the balance of the powers desired by the Constitution. In the Commission's examination, the idea of widening the majority for the election of the Head of State has come a long way, and the text under consideration (Article 21) rightly provides - in my opinion, not enough - for eight qualified majority ballots; but as a closure of the system, if this quorum is not reached, it provides for the criterion of absolute majority voting. Personally, however, I believe that, in the event of a lack of parliamentary agreement, it is more appropriate to call on the electoral body to decide, in order to give the necessary authority to the person called to hold the high office. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the integration of Parliament in a joint session with the Members of the European Parliament, it responds to the logic of extending the elective college to the new structures of representation, as the Constitutions already did with the prediction of regional delegates, even today to emphasize Italian participation in the European Union. In this regard, there is an amendment that I and many other senators have signed with Mr Gotor. In conclusion, Mrs Fucksia asked if we could do more and better: of course, the reform is perfect and it has certainly proved the centrality of Parliament in this examination. In fact, to those who thought that Parliament was expropriated of its role and that a pre-constituted and prescribed law could be imposed from the outside (a pre-cooked product, perhaps only eaten by us) I would say that Parliament's centrality has proved even stronger, because in the Commission a large part of the bill has been substantially changed, and I do not exclude that it can be further improved in this House. The important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to try never to lose the sense of the measure: the more criticism is on the merits and they are serious, the more they are destined to affect; the more criticism they are the product of personal or party biases, the more they are destined to irrelevance, which is political and institutional. I believe that the rapporteurs have done a good job; the Commission has changed for the better the product we are discussing today and I am convinced that the next steps in Parliament will not be rhetoric or formalism. [[Applause from the PI, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, our country, in order to be internationally competitive, needs rapid decision-making processes, able to take into account the complexities of phenomena, the social centrality and the value of our territories. I want to make a cultural issue about the reform we are discussing: I do not care about detail, technicalism. What we are interested in is the overall design, the idea and the type of country it has in it. The modern world imposes speed, and it is the one that is tried to have, for twenty years now, the decree of urgency. We all know that this has created the paradox of a Parliament that is as central to the paper as, in fact, stripped of the exercise of its functions. The cause of this is largely due to the perfect bicameralism. We are - I believe - the only country in the world to have such a complicated system, while modern democracies have an imperfect system, in which the Lower House usually represents territories. Its overcoming should constitute a non-news, while our country is filling a delay of thirty years about the need for the modernization of its institutional plant. As I said before, however, it is first and foremost a question of cultural approach for us self-employed people. We appreciate that there have been changes to the initial approach, which made the new Senate in fact only a Chamber of Consultation and not what it should be, that is, a Chamber of Autonomies. Unfortunately, in the current reform there is not much of what we were proposing through a draft law presented by the Group for the Autonomies (President Zeller extensor) a few months ago and which went precisely in the direction of the institutional systems of the most modern democracies, such as, for example, the German one, much invoked by our political forces, but little used in fact. My colleagues, Mr Palermo and Mr Zeller, have brought an authoritative and qualified technical and political contribution to the Commission and to the relevant political bodies on behalf of our Group. It remains, despite us, a fundamental choice in the overall plan that we struggle to understand and concerns the decrease of the legislative and administrative powers of the Regions with ordinary statutes, compared to what currently provided for in Title V of the Constitution, going beyond what had already been assumed by the critics of the Regions in recent years. It is above all an error of cultural approach; even worse, it is a lost historical opportunity. Globalisation has taught us that the territories, if they can make their own vocation live, if they can organize themselves in communities of change, then they are able to generate opportunities for growth and development that no central state is more able to guarantee. However, globalization when it finds annomic territories (i.e., that cannot make its identity live) ends up sweeping them away, to homologate them, to transform them into non-places. It is on the territories that the challenge of change is being played today; it is on the territories that the policies of escape from the crisis are being built, it is on the territories that anti-politics is being fought, that the relationship of trust between citizens and institutions is being reconstructed. In addition, despite intensive work in the Commission, the new Title V does not seem to have the objective to be pursued towards its reform, i.e. the excessive conflict between the State and the regions. As Ugo De Siervo points out today on "La Stampa" (Printing), in fact, there are widely used categories from complex borders, as in the case of national and regional interests, and it has not been clarified at all what happens when they interfere with state exclusive subjects and regional exclusive subjects. Of course, in recent years the regions have not shone in terms of administrative quality and the repeated scandals of these months are the sad proof of this. Netta is the perception that this Government, and perhaps the same public opinion, sees the Regions today only as centres of expenditure out of control. At this point, if this is the perception, it is believed that it is better to have a single center of expenditure out of control, the central one, rather than 20. Instead of forcing the regions to assume their responsibilities, to respect their budgets, they prefer to take away their competences and bring everything back to the central state. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that the state is capable of doing so? Do you think the state has shown that it is efficient and effective? If I stand by President Renzi's words, I don't think he's convinced either. We self-employed, however, always hope that before or after in Italy a serious reasoning will develop around the self-governments and that at last we will start if not precisely towards a federal process, at least towards a genuinely regionalist system. The solution, Mr Casini, is not to take away power from the specials, it is to give more power to the others. This being the case, we must acknowledge that the Government has complied with the political-programmatic agreements entered into with the autonomous forces. The amendment of the Statutes of the Special Autonomous Authorities is an objective which must be achieved as soon as possible and which is made possible through the maintenance of the safeguard clause. In the same way as the current Executive, all the forces of majority and opposition, which are making their contribution, must be shown to want to heal a historical delay. Reforming is not only necessary to gain credibility and contractual power in Europe, but it also serves to undertake a reform and modernisation process that must cover different areas, from tax to public administration, from our training system to the labour market. It is a question that comes strongly from the public, which we gather every day from our territories and for which we cannot fail our contribution and on which, even on behalf of the Tyrolean Automanist Party of which I am political secretary, we are ready to do our part for its approval. We hope, however, that the valid proposals emerged from the interesting and articulated debate that has developed in recent months and that the next few weeks will be used to perfect a text that, although improved compared to the original one of the Government, is still lacking. We're rewriting our Constitutional Charter. Let us take as long as it takes, but let us not please use the alibi of a supposedly violated democracy or the untouchability of a system that has proved to be largely non-functioning, to lose it unnecessarily, as unfortunately has happened for too many years. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u19	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u20	Madam President, in this country it would be necessary to take care of our memory and history because from a proper reading of the past we can build a better future. In 2006, with an unequivocal popular vote, the Italian people rejected the constitutional reform wanted only by the center-right. Now it is precisely with those who proposed that reform rejected by the citizens that the Democratic Party is making reforms. Again, the reform of Title V has been the subject of so many constitutional clashes that it is even difficult to find an exact number. Looks like it was 1,700. In short, 30 years after the Bozzi Commission, with two constitutional reforms behind it (one supported by a referendum and the other rejected by the popular vote and a few hundred appeals to the Constitutional Court on competing subjects) and after years of Bulgarian majorities unable to rule and majorities on the line, despite the electoral results, thanks to electoral reforms made specifically to prevent winning the opposing coalition, politics and its representatives of the institutions perhaps should take a conscience examination and wonder why we are today faced with this institutional crisis, to the point that in this legislature we are at three broad, small and narrow governments. Today's debate on this constitutional reform must therefore start from an evaluation of this past. In both cases mentioned, in a different way, a careful parliamentary debate did not avoid the no of the vast majority of voters and the operational difficulties of implementing the reform, also because of a conflict that, as well as institutional, was political. On the one hand, in fact, the various governments, depending on the moment, have been committed more to undoing the autonomy of the Regions than to realizing it and, on the other, the Regions in various cases have exaggerated the use of this autonomy. After these two examples, those who are really interested in constitutional reform, such as the one we are facing, should stop, listen to the demands, doubts, the many alternative proposals that have come from this House and from the country. It is here, in Parliament, as the constituent fathers have chosen, that constitutional reforms are decided. Not in a party seat, with a pact between two political leaders, as happened in via del Nazareno; a pact that we would have the right to know, since at that private meeting between two party secretaries an agreement was made which imposes the upheaval of the Constitution and the institutional system. It would then be useful, for a clear and transparent debate, and simply to inform the citizens, to make known even the cheating of that meeting. Maybe we could find that among the priorities there is also the conflict of interest, a law or rather a reform - to use the slang of modernity - really urgent that the country has been waiting for twenty years. So a real priority to do, this yes, with speed, but we seem to understand that instead you preferred to scrap the entire topic that disappeared from the vocabulary. We are, at this stage, practically constituents on the contrary. Instead of being re-constituted for the country, we risk being devastating. We should first of all ask ourselves why we must overcome the perfect bicameralism, which as far as we are concerned is not a taboo and never has been. Yet even in this legislature, for us the first experience, we have experienced that even double reading is very useful to correct, make changes, to improve (certainly, in some cases even worsen), minimize damage, to balance, and so it has been in all these years and is not a banality. You have also said that you want to do this reform in order to speed up legislative procedures that are too often blocked by the "freezers and owls." You first know that's not true. With confidence, these Aules have seen the Government of the little ones trying to kill the debate at least 13 times. On the other hand, this Government of Innovation is only legislated for urgent decrees, virtually eliminating parliamentary prerogatives. Yet these classrooms have seen unconstitutional record time laws passed, such as the so-called Alfano praise. These Houses voted, even with the consent of the Democratic Party, very quickly on the austerity rules that the President of the Council today announces he wants to change, calling for flexibility for Europe. To that very Europe which asks our Government for structural economic reforms, reforms for work, justice, social reforms, you propose a constitutional reform that is badly done, that removes prerogatives, guarantees system, balance of powers. However, we learned from the newspapers on Sunday that you do so to prove that you are credible. We believe, however, that the credibility of our country will be measured on anything else, it will not suffice the cancellation of the Senate to guarantee economic recovery, but it will take a good amount of political courage to tell Europe that we cannot respect the constraints and budgetary obligations that impose us because the country is on the poverty line; the ISTAT said that there are 10 million poor, equal to 16.6 percent of the population. You should then use that courage to make the only truly urgent constitutional reform: remove from the Constitution the obligation to balance the budget introduced by Constitutional Law 20 April 2012, n. 1. It is a measure that has demonstrated its dramatic danger in the current recession, making investments for growth much more difficult and pushing the country into a recessionary spiral; lower revenue from taxation and lower public investment. Terrible risks that had been widely predicted by authoritative economists, including seven Nobel Prize winners, in the famous letter they wrote in 2011 to Obama. And it is completely useless for the Premier to announce in a robust way his demands for greater flexibility in Europe or to be able to finance investment in digital, if this constraint remains in the Constitution. Changing towards Europe is not about announcements, but about choices. La Pira said that the prophets of our time are those who protested against the crushing of man under the weight of economic laws and technical apparatus, those who rejected these fatalities. And what does this Senate reform proposed by the government involve? We will have a government supported only by a House, a House where there will be a certain majority thanks to a higher majority prize than that of the Porcellum (by the way, but wasn't it unconstitutional?), and at the same time, as Senate, a room of nominations. And there will be no primary salvation for anyone; the choice will remain firm to the parties. So even here a mistake of the past is perpetuated, with great damage to democracy and the freedom of choice of citizens, whose right to vote will be increasingly limited; but not even this truth your propaganda tells. We will have a Chamber in which there will be no opposition of minor forces, thanks to the barriers to Turkey (not just an example of liberal democracy), and without the Senate counter-altar. And so the great parties, those who today decide on their own to make the reforms, create a system that self-proposes, freezes the status quo and in which the leader of the majority party can, in the name of governance, effectively control the Constitutional Court and the CSM and elect the President of the Republic alone. But what short vision is this? Do you really think you'll always be in the government? What if the election wins tomorrow and the enlightened monarchy is no longer there? We will have a system that looks tremendously like a presidential system, surreptitiously introduced on the grounds of anti-caste motives. Ride the wave of anti-politics does not respond to the demands of citizens, but only serves to appease the hunger of those who see evil in politics and do not see it in politicians who err with their ethically condemnable behavior. The Government's proposal on the Senate, like that of the abolition of the elected in the Provinces, responds above all to a goal of pure propaganda: less politicians, less salaried, but always appointed. Not a serious reflection on the reduction of allowances, which could be done immediately, without changing the Constitution, nor on a more sober conduct on the part of politics, which should prove precisely that another policy is possible. One cut to the others and not to himself, still a stroke of image. Already, just a few months ago, in fact, the slogan "3,000 politicians in less" was launched; but in September it will be re-voted for the Provinces and metropolitan areas, with a second-level election. Therefore, we have announced that the Provinces have been cut, but in reality only the right to vote has been removed from the citizens. This was confirmed yesterday by the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, who said in his report that the suppression of the Provinces is a fiction: only the facade of the palace has been changed. So, we would say, a sharp cut in the participation of citizens. And it is the same that you are proposing today for the Senate: a Senate of appointed, or rather chosen, chosen by people already elected, that is, between the regional councillors and the mayors, by voting only the elected in the Regional Councils. I would like to remind you that regional electoral laws are not the same between them, but they are different systems. Many have lists (therefore the hypothesis of senators who in fact have never faced a direct election by citizens) or high thresholds of barrier (to the point of guaranteeing a single or almost second-level elected and canceling all forms of direct representation). It will also be interesting to see how gender equality can be respected. I would like to remind all of us that, in the last regional elections, very few regional councils elected women. In short, it is cut on the direct representation of citizens in the name of governability; it is a bit like saying "don't disturb the maneuverer". The real objective of this reform is, in a very short-sighted way, to block the road to participatory democracy, because it is clear that this vision of a new relationship between citizens and institutions is completely in conflict with that of man only in command, which has a vertical and efficient approach, but only in appearance. And it is a wrong approach, because, after such a heavy period of economic, social and cultural crisis, in which the disillusionment of politics has reached very high levels and the participation of citizens in active politics and voting very low levels, what our democracy desperately needs are measures capable of reconnecting citizens and institutions, citizens and politics. In the time of the crisis of substantial democracy, our commitment should be to make forms of representation more democratic, overcoming the personalistic drifts of politics. If the Government had an innovative vision of society, it would propose that we change our direction, not by distorting the "protections" that had been inserted by the constituent Fathers to protect democracy, the Republic and all citizens, but, on the contrary, by nominating those measures in a reform capable of involving the country with positive messages and of great inclusiveness. A reform that does not speak to the belly of the people, but that ensures efficiency and stability and strengthens public ethics. There is no more time to waste behind wrong and harmful reforms. This is the mantra that you have given us in recent weeks: you told the country that no effective reforms have been made due to 20 years of immobility. In fact, that is not true, because over the last 20 years, reforms have indeed been made! Then enough, you are not original, with this propaganda, which moreover reproduces a practice that we have already experienced. I would like to list some reforms made in recent years: from the Fornero law, to the Fini-Giovanardi law, from the Bossi-Fini law, to the Gelmini law, to the many ad personam laws. Many of these counter-reforms also had a very fast iter: think that the Alfano praise was discussed and approved from June 26, 2008 to July 22, 2008. Too bad that text was declared unconstitutional. It should be said: the political will was there, the efficiency of speed, when needed is found, but constitutional correctness was not. This is because it was an ad personam measure. The Fornero law was passed so quickly as to forget the exodus. By the way, this is also an urgent reform, much more urgent than that of the Senate, because it speaks to the real life of people. The dogma of speed is incompatible with constitutional reforms, which should redesign a vision for the country and the model of democracy that we want for the country, but not only today or for the next elections: we should at least make the effort to think from here to the next 20 years. This is the average objective that should be set by a legislator and a reformer. The process has been reversed here: instead of saying what reform we wanted to do, we saw how many figures in Parliament could be reformed and this reform adapted to the numbers present in Parliament, without it having any coherent overall plan. That's what happened with Italicum. The President of the Council, then secretary of the PD, took the leader of Forza Italia to the street of the Nazarene to decide what reform would be possible, playing on majorities to variable geometries, depending on the table on which it was played. This does not start from one's own proposal, but by accepting in fact what Berlusconi wanted: indeed, just like for the Porcellum, which was useful to Berlusconi. There's speed, it's true, but there's nothing to do with quality. That is why we would have liked to have been recognized here today, at least the fact that different opinions and options are being compared, but all of equal dignity. It is not enough to make reforms, we must do them well, as many constitutionalists of various cultural origins, for a long time, and not now on the wave of emotion and demagogy, who always make it the master in electoral times. Although the elections have just ended, it seems that the election campaign is still underway. Continuous messages of destabilisation are being launched: a real paradox for those who have made mantra governance. Instead, instead of recognizing the legitimacy of different thoughts and respect, we had derision and slyness. Not only are we faced with a constitutional reform that is not born in the parliamentary classrooms, where there are representatives of the citizens, but - very serious fact - it is proposed by the Government, which imposes its own model and without possibility of confrontation and debate with those who have a different thought or other ideas. Other than Article 21 of the Constitution: do you remember that? It is the article on freedom of expression of thought. Here we invoke the mistress of majesty. Then we must say: you are authoritarian. Yes, authoritarians. We understand that you do not like to hear it, but we say it, because you do not respect the opinions of others and diversity and this is also a sign of great weakness and little authority. However, we must all be careful: society is widely represented in politics, but if this does not happen, unfortunately - as we have experienced - there are other ways of representation and, when society is forced to represent itself outside the institutions, the risks are very high: in this regard too, history should teach us a lot, so we should make historical memory work, in order to avoid such dangerous risks. Even because of the importance of the issues at stake, we would therefore have hoped that our debate would take care of all these aspects and not be silent about the need for democracy - not demagogy - of this country. We must look to the future, which has not ended on 25 May and which will not end in these days, but will continue beyond us. We must have the pride and humility to remember that the Constitution that entrusted us with the constituent Fathers is something more than us and our legitimate expectations and that, whatever vision we have, it must take into account the firm principles on which the Constitutional Charter was built. To be true reformers today, we must implement it, without inventing anything new, and be consistent, because there are the new rules of civil, political and political coexistence. Without the anxiety of newspaper headlines, perhaps we could have worked seriously and in a shared way to widen democracy and not lock it up in forms that mortify its full realization. In any case - and we have been saying this clearly for a long time - we of Left Ecology and Freedom do not adapt: even at the cost of being countercurrent and cut off from your propaganda and from your sloganistic simplification, we will not conform. We want to open a serious debate on the quality of reforms and change, which is indispensable for the future of democracy: if it is not possible to do it here in these classrooms, we will continue to take it out, in the country and with the citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u21	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u22	Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen and citizens, we are all discussing these days the constitutional bill No. 1429 and related, which contains provisions for overcoming the bicameralism of equality, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of the cost of running the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of the second part of the Constitution, many things, in short. I would like to point out first of all that a Parliament of nominations, with a law which, in some respects, has been declared unconstitutional, pretends to change the main law of the Italian State, namely the Constitution: already this aspect should cause it to cease in the purpose of changing it so radically, as dares to make the measure that we are going to analyze. I personally believe that we cannot revise the Constitution without including it in the wider context of an overall institutional project, which also concerns the electoral law of the House and the government of the judiciary. The three powers, in fact - executive (the Government), legislative (the Parliament) and judicial - are in balance with each other, with weights and counterweights: their lack of coordination, therefore, could create very dangerous distortions for our democracy. Another point I would like to add is that the draft constitutional law under consideration, which is a government initiative - fact, this is very serious, given the government's willingness to assume the right to promote and impose radical reforms of the fundamental Charter, even in the timing - substantially change the form of government, strongly affecting the balance between powers, through the rewriting of as many as a third of its articles. In particular, it is proposed to modify the provisions from Title I to Title VI of Part II of the Constitution, through a completely uneven intervention, concerning the reform of bicameralism and the State-Regions relationship, as well as the abolition - which is also acceptable - of the CNEL. I would remind you that the Senate had received numerous constitutional bills, to be precise 51, bearing witness to the fact that this branch of Parliament had not forgotten the need for revision and that the debate was in progress. All the parliamentary groups had proposed more or less wide-ranging solutions to improve some of the points that slow down their functionality and, consequently, legislative activity. Many functional aspects could have been resolved by modifying the House and Senate Regulations, which is easier and more immediate, rather than waiting for the time of the four approvals, as stipulated in Article 138, which you wanted to modify and which we of the 5 Star Movement have defended strenuously. Why take a narrow mountain path when there is a motorway available? I will not go into the substance of the various articles, also because time would not allow me, but some simple reflections appear to be necessary. We are beginning to talk about the 100 senators, 5 of whom are appointed by the President of the Republic, 21 mayors and 74 regional councillors. I find it very difficult to understand how a regional councillor can abandon his work in the Region to be here in Rome. Some hypotheses may be sketched out, but the conclusions lead to unspeakable truths. The first: the regional councillor does little and nothing, does not study, does not read and there is time for him to analyze Roman issues. If this were to prevail, one might think of reducing the regional councillors. In fact, many of them, especially the professionals, maintain their activity, dedicating the marginal clippings of their time to regional work. Another hypothesis is that the senator does nothing, so for many advisors, Rome represents a weekly prize trip of two, three days. In this case, then, it would make more sense to abolish the Senate. It seems amazing to see how in recent years attempts have been made to predict the incompatibility between the various roles: if occupying more seats is useless then it's fine; but if you need work, commitment, effort, one person can occupy only one. This proposal goes against the trend and, let me tell you, a "genius" appears. I recall that in France, organic law No 125 of 14 February 2014 introduces the prohibition of cumulation between the mandate of deputy or senator and all executive positions in the regional and local government: in short, the exact opposite of what Renzi wants for the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So what's the point of this article? It is evident when reading Article 6, which maintains Article 68 of the Constitution, that is to say, that immunity is extended to members. At a time when the Regional Councils are not subject to investigative activities are an exception, the Senate will become the place where to winter those who do not shine for transparency and honesty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You think I'm getting rid of those mayors and advisors, comrades of snacks, who stay at home and do not enjoy immunity! Two weights and two measures would have to be said. I do not want to enter into the mechanism of the appointment of the five by the President of the Republic, who remain in office seven years and not five like the others, on the fact that a law will have to be made that regulates the best regional proportionality and the modalities of the vote. At first sight they will favour as usual the majorities, also considering the fact that the senators will be in reduced number: I imagine that Lombardy, for example, with one sixth of the Italian population, will have six, seven senators, so there will be no room for minorities. This mechanism will determine that even numerous groups, with 10 to 15% of the votes in all regions, will not have even one representative. It must then be decided whether the Senate represents citizens and institutions and therefore evaluates representativeness. But one thing I would like to understand, and I ask for help from you who are experts, also because the title "Content of costs" says it: how much is the savings of the Senate that you have drawn? I couldn't read a technical report. Since the remaining 100 senators will have daily, collaborative expenses, Group expenses, we can estimate a savings of 60-70 million, not the billion waved by Renzi, an incompetent person who does not know how to count and who claims to change the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We're not gonna let him. I hope you guys have a whisper of conscience, too. We said 60-70 million, certainly an important figure, but it would have been enough to give up the public funding of the parties that you have camouflaged by a fake law and with the help of a complacent and enslaved communicative system you have concealed from the citizens. Then why not reduce the number of honourable Members as well? These considerations would suffice to understand that the bill is not standing. I was hoping to find something that I think is very important, which would really lead to a change of pace in politics, but it is obvious that you do not have the courage to change. It should end with the myth of the politicians. When I hear people talking about professionals who have been in Parliament for years, sometimes decades, with lawmaking, I shudder. Look in the mirror, don't you feel responsible for bringing this Italy to ruin? You are responsible for a public debt that grows out of proportion because of measures that you approve. What kind of professionals are you? Don't think you're the best. I would have preferred a drafting of Article 65 of the Constitution, in which a stake was placed: no one can make politics by sensing money for more than two mandates in the various bodies (Comuni, Provinces, today Large Areas, Regions and Parliament). In fact, you cannot speak of a mandate bond if you then have to submit to the need to be re-elected: it is an oxymoron. In the face of having to vote on a measure in which the public interest prevails, but which would harm you in the possibility of re-election, there is no history: the measure sinks. This also applies because, being appointed, if you oppose the party secretary, you are excluded in the next round. This aspect is even more important when it comes to business policy interweaving. The examples of these days are before everyone's eyes: maxiappalati and maxitangenti in order to be able to pay for the eternal electoral campaign. No, that doesn't work. Five, maximum ten years, then at home to work, but not in the participants, not in the foundations, not with maxiconsulenze nonexistente for hundreds of thousands of euros. We heard who did the math: 50,000 people in the participants. This rule would be enough to drastically reduce the mafia infiltration in public administrations. It is now proven that it is politicians who seek the mafias to get the votes, in exchange for public works because the difficult thing is to get into politics, and you do anything to be elected. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This was asked of you by 350,000 citizens on September 8, 2007. You've molded the citizens' desire for six years. And now bring the bar of the number of signatures for a popular proposition law from 50,000 to 250,000 signatures, with the promise that the object of the popular petition will be dealt with at certain times. You're no longer credible. You have not considered the possibility of referendums because you are afraid of citizens: that is the truth. I've heard some of you talk about the similarities between your Senate proposal and the German Bundesrat exalting them, and pointing out that if it works in Germany, it will also work in Italy. It takes a lot of courage to say that. How do you compare a political class where you resign for copying a piece of thesis with the one where you do things without their knowledge? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Think: in that country one doesn't pay taxes, they try him, they put him in jail for three years and he doesn't even appeal. In Italy, on the other hand, you are guaranteed. You have to wait for the Cassation, so that it intervenes the prescription in order to be able to use the hypocritical definition "absolute in prescription" even when the fact has been established or screams to the coup. We the criminals transform them into constituent Fathers because they have much to teach. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The last aspect I would like to consider and which I mentioned in the preamble is the loss of the relationship between the powers of the State. Having a majority electoral system in the House allows, thanks to the vote of a few senators, to elect the President of the Republic and, with him, constitutional judges and representatives of the CSM by distorting the powers. This is a very serious and very dangerous problem. Not within the changes of Title V, in the relationship between State-Regions, as a very controversial argument, also because it was managed by a political class that did nothing but give work to the judiciary. But I ask a question: if you had made a masterpiece six years ago, why do you stress today that this masterpiece has created many problems? And yet, weren't you the real politicians? I have often heard in this debate that institutional reforms are needed to enable multinationals to invest and, consequently, create jobs. You have not yet realized that Italy needs honesty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You would invest in Italy where in all important public works, exposed by the judiciary, there were corruption, bribes, complicity, favoritism. It is not by changing the Constitution that jobs are created, but by putting thieves in jail. Where has the anti-corruption law gone, where has the crime of self-laundering gone, of fake in the budget? As you can see, dear citizens, I have not fallen into legal particularism, but I have highlighted some simple inconsistencies that show that this constitutional bill is a dangerous drift and those who vote for it will have to account for it, as well as for their children and grandchildren, also for their conscience. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u23	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking here today in general debate on what I consider to be the highest moment for a legislator, namely the reform of the Constitution. It's a historic moment for Italy. Many reforms, expectations and necessary, finally arrive in Parliament proposing sometimes courageous and innovative choices and - we hope - able to revive confidence in the institutions, in politics and in the future of our country. I am proud to be a part of this Parliament that discusses, elaborates, criticizes, proposes, approves radical and fundamental changes. Honestly I am also grateful to the Government and today to the President of the Council of Ministers, Matteo Renzi, who, with his enthusiasm and strength, pushes, imposes and encourages this great innovative push. It takes courage, and I will do everything in my small part to support and contribute to the adoption of the necessary legislative measures. Having said that, it should be noted that not all reforms could go in the desired direction. Sometimes excessive zeal and urgency could help create difficulties and complications. As a colleague used to say, sometimes the haste is a bad counselor. Let me add that it is not only the haste of our enemy, but also and above all the attitude of those who, in the name of the right need to change, fail to assess the consequences of new rules and provisions. Today we are examining a proposal for reform of the Constitution that not only changes certain mechanisms for the operation of the legislative process, which are necessary to modernise the Italian parliamentary system, but also undermines the fundamental principles of our Constitutional Charter. Many colleagues reminded us yesterday and today of Article 1 of the Constitution: Sovereignty belongs to the people. In my opinion, these words have a simple meaning: the people are sovereign and sovereignty is exercised with the right to exercise voting to elect their representatives in government institutions, municipalities, regional assemblies and national parliament. The constituent Fathers wanted it because they knew about the tragedy of fascism and many of them thought of a progressive democracy, that is, more and more participated by the people. The citizens' ability to choose their representatives is the only way to guarantee legitimacy and popular trust in the politics and institutions where it operates; trust and legitimacy that, as many people notice, has failed over the years and perhaps today has touched on historical minima. I am not convinced that by removing the right to the participatory democracy system, we can restore confidence in politics and institutions. On the contrary, more than ever, legitimacy and trust must be promoted by encouraging popular participation in politics and direct election of their representatives; personal contact with elected persons is the best way to restore trust and legitimacy. In other words, it is not enough to directly elect one's own political representatives, but above all it is necessary to be able to personally choose one's own representatives and to avoid that they live exclusively in the palaces of power, but are continuously present in the territory in which they have received their mandate. Constitutional reform could have provided a unique opportunity to change the relationship between politics and citizens in a real and effective way. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that's not the case. Of course, progress is being made as, for example, overcoming the bicameralism of equality, which I find in perfect agreement; as I agree with the transformation of the Senate into an organ dedicated also to the relationship between the State and autonomy, but not only. The Senate should be a branch of Parliament and therefore a collegial body of a representative-political character, through which the people exercise power. As the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, rightly said yesterday, should also be a Control and Guarantee Chamber. Honestly, I think that the new Senate, as conceived in the text under consideration these days, will not be able to play this role. The double and, in some cases, triple positions of the future senators, the non-eligibility directed by the people are two of the reasons for my distrust. I tried to figure out how the new senate could work. I have spoken with many foreign parliamentarians, I have consulted the proceedings of the Constitutional Assembly, I have tried to modernise the thinking, among other things, of Don Sturzo and Gramsci: I have not been able to convince myself. I cannot even understand how a great party, such as the Democratic Party, can even propose such a reform, but we still have time to correct some mistakes. In a recent press conference, the President-in-Office of the Council and Secretary of the Democratic Party correctly said that we now agree on over 90% of this reform, and I think that that can be the case. But in order to reach almost 100% we need to review some issues, including double and triple posts, direct eligibility by the people, the reduction in the number of Members. I hope that the Government realises these needs and that we can approve changes in this House. I have proposed and signed a number of amendments to the text approved by the 1st Commission which aim to guarantee the direct eligibility of senators, reduce the number of members of the Chamber of Deputies, broaden the audience of the great voters for the election of the President of the Republic, ensure the presence of senators and elected Members abroad in the Italian Parliament and finally guarantee the right to exercise the vote of Italians abroad at all institutional levels: Municipalities, Regions and Parliament. In conclusion, allow me to say that I do not think that we have the right, in this House, to deprive Italian citizens of the right to directly elect their representatives. We have no right to turn the Senate into an organ without real powers of control and guarantee, almost to create a House of State and not a House of the People. I hope that common sense prevails and that we do not betray the principles of participatory democracy that inspired the constituent Fathers, which today inspire the progressive forces that make up the Democratic Party to which I belong and which give me the strength and enthusiasm to serve Italian citizens in Italy and in the world. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u25	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Italy urgently needs reforms capable of restoring credibility to the institutions and politics, of restoring trust and democratic participation; reforms which, at the same time, are capable of guaranteeing stability and decision-making effectiveness, also in order to relaunch a culture of public ethics that seemed to fade away between the bad administration and widespread corruption to which the chronicle has accustomed us, of new geopolitical structures, and of our participation and belonging to the European Union; reforms for a new institutional system that successfully and promptly integrates into the processes of the elaboration of broad policies, which redefining the power and balance of a republican constitution already constructed on prohibitions, but on the contrary, alive, expression of purposes and which gives us the legal instruments to adapt the Order of the Republic by safeguarding the solid and undisputed system of power and the balance of the fundamental values of the country, and of the status of the two-sided government, and of the two-sided government. It is a list of areas of state competence, therefore, including strategic sectors for the entire national territory such as large infrastructure, energy, environment, work and training, health, education, tourism and landscape protection. Finally, but not least, there is a substantial reduction in the number of Members, with a relative reduction in the cost of operating the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the simplification of the institutional system. The reform of the Charter always requires careful and thoughtful reflection, broad political sharing, but also useful times to give concrete answers, because - as we have repeated several times - we come from a debate of more than thirty years, from the so-called Commission Bozzi of 1983 to the Bicameral of 1994 or 1997, until the devolution of 2006: reform paths that have always rightly accompanied by assessments on the risk to the democratic keeping of the same order also in the face of potential dictatorships of majority; recent or ongoing constitutional reform processes are accompanying our in parallel, in neighbouring European countries (we have talked about it), of which some with the rethinking of the central-outskirts relationship also to what we are realizing in our country as in France or systems that, like in Germany, strengthen the power of territorial governments for the competences attributed or limit the political representation in the second state chamber to the majorities of local government; processes of reform and transformation that follow the developments of the specific social and political context of each individual country and that of those needs of change must be expressed in order to maintain the conjunction of the democratic process between the electorate, parties, elected, representatives, representatives, institutions, institutions, institutions and transformations that follow the developments that follow the specific social contexts that bring to the development and the situation. A balance needs to be struck between representation and governance, between the enhancement of local self-government and neo-centralism, between territorial solidarity and the competitiveness of local systems, which the constitutionalisation of standard costs will have to address towards greater efficiency in the use of public resources and homogeneity in the provision of services, greater social cohesion, an instrument to combat bad administration, increasing inequalities and persistent territorial imbalances. It is necessary to restore legitimacy to the institutions and political representatives, to their ability to adopt effective public policy choices quickly, to produce useful rules and which too often find the blocking of implementing decrees; quality of legislation too complex, unhomogeneous and too produced by decree-laws, which finally find just constraints of formation and content in the new Article 77 of the Constitutional Reform. The final objective of the reform is, therefore, to give back to politics responsibility, where responsibility regains its original meaning; ability to give answers. For this reason, I consider the attempt to rebalance a vertical democracy with a horizontal one that in the Senate of the Republic's Autonomies reports the composition of territorial authorities in the general national interest. But I would have preferred a composition that had more valued the mayors - true pieces, from my point of view, of the strategic economic and social development - and the Municipalities, places of civic culture and belonging, still waiting for the implementation of the principle of responsible fiscal federalism and solidarity to be completed. The final task of this reform process, therefore, is to rebuild confidence, in a modern, effective Italy, and finally to rebuild the pact of trust between the State and citizens in a desired Europe of peoples. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u27	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u28	Madam President, the Renzi-Boschi draft law, since its presentation, has immediately provoked many justified criticisms. On the outcome of the work of the First Senate Commission, it can be said that there is almost nothing left of this bill, and it is easy to understand it by examining the critical remarks that we had allowed ourselves at the time to address to the extensors of this proposal. We can summarize these critical remarks in the following way. First, the number of members and the proportion between the Regions: 19 regions with six representatives, while Trentino-Alto Adige would have eight; difference not fully justifiable only according to the specialty of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. Second, the equal representation between the Regions: the Italian history, which did not know the Regions up to the Constitution, and which is characterized by huge differences between territories, was compatible with a representation that grants Molise the same number of senators of Lombardy? Thirdly, the equal representation within each Region: the opposition between municipalists and regionalists is known to all, and it is clear the inspiration ANCI of the government project, but the legislative power is exercised by the Regions, not by the Municipalities, and a Senate interlocutor in the legislative function should perhaps have a pre-eminent representation of subjects designated by the Regional Councils. Fourthly, but perhaps it should be said first, could regional autonomy be greatly reduced on the one hand, and on the other hand could a Senate of Autonomous States be created? Was it really thought that the presence of senators elected by the Regions, not always backed by representatives of the Municipalities (which will sometimes be opposed to them), could reduce the litigation between the State and the Regions before the Constitutional Court? Fifth, why do the mayors of the municipalities of the capital of the Region considered as members of the law? And how could two mayors per Region, probably representatives of only larger municipalities (because mayors can be expected to elect representatives with weighted votes), guarantee 8,000 municipalities of predominantly modest size? Sixthly, last but perhaps most striking: the incredible attribution to the President of the Republic of the power to appoint 21 senators, even in limited time. Twenty-one senators would have been many, able to determine a majority. The fact that the President may, and should not, appoint seems preordained to the use of power as a function of the creation of a majority or the consolidation of a majority. But if the Senate is a guarantee, will it have to guarantee a homogeneous majority to that of the House or one opposed to it? And why attribute this decision to a body that continues to be irresponsible except by high treason or attack on the Constitution? How can we reconcile, in the same Assembly, subjects that could improve the output of the Senate, in function of added value, with subjects called to represent Regions and Municipalities, and therefore to protect divided and biased interests? The proposal, as amended by the 1st Commission, solves many of these problems, but the fact to point out is that these critical profiles were only the most emblematic and did not exhaust all the perplexities that are also systematic and that derive from the new possible role of the Senate as second Chamber, with a first Chamber elected with an electoral system of which unfortunately it is very easy to list the gaps and imperfections. Returning to the draft law before the House today, the first positive is the correction on the number of representatives of the various regions (despite a new and substantial over-representation of Trentino-Alto Adige). Moreover, it is a positive choice to entrust the election of senators to regional councillors, but with two clarifications: firstly, limiting the passive electorate to advisers alone is a choice that deserves to be well considered, because in the comparative landscape there are also different solutions, with passive electorate more open also to non-advisor citizens. Secondly, why have the mayor's representative elected by the regional councillors? It is true that the so-called Renzi-Boschi bill, all oriented to assigning power to the mayors, had to be deeply rethought, but if in each Region there is only one representative of the mayors, it is more correct that the latter elect it, perhaps using the Council of Local Autonomies. As for the chosen electoral system, the choice between the election of the mayor or a councilman is attributed to the most voted list, but nothing is explained in case the list opts for the councilman. Scrolling, questioning the second list? What if no list opts for the mayor candidate, preferring to have an alderman elected? Continuing, of course, the reduction from twenty-one to five of the maximum number of senators appointed by the President of the Republic is positive, not without stressing how, in essence, this power retains its incisiveness, given the new composition of the Senate (5 senators out of 100, and no more out of 315). Nothing is clearly said, however, about the senators for life currently in office, as to the duration of their term of office: will they retain their office for life, in clear contrast to colleagues who will be appointed in time? Is it true that the former Presidents of the Republic will keep their senators for life but, assuming that this choice is acceptable, must it be identical also for the citizens not former Presidents who currently sit in the Senate? These comments, which relate to the criticism of the draft law at the time, now deserve to focus on certain aspects of a general and specific nature of the text which have now been before the House. First of all, the legislative procedure provides that, for laws that do not require the necessary approval of the Senate, this must have to examine the text approved by the Chamber, and that within ten days and at the request of a third of its members. In this regard, even if we wanted to accept the diminished role of the Senate in the legislative process, in the logic of a second Chamber it seems excessive to claim that the Senate can examine texts approved by the Chamber not by default, but even at the specific request of a third of its members. The rule already provides a maximum time for the examination of the texts and therefore the quorum required to start the examination seems preordained only to make the intervention of the Senate more difficult; which makes little sense. With regard to the rewording of Article 82 of the Constitution, relating to the power of inquiry, the Senate will only be able to use it for investigations on matters of public interest concerning territorial autonomy. The forecast seems ambiguous and limiting: if it refers to the matters on which the Regions have legislative power, it is too reductive, because the Regions are constituent bodies of the State and as such have the right, if not the obligation, to examine issues of important public interest. Moreover, the contradictions are increased by some provisions of Article 55 of the Constitution (Article 1 of the bill) which seem to specialize the Senate for some functions rather than matters: if, for example, the Senate checks the implementation of the laws of the State (of all laws, it seems to understand), why should it carry out investigations only on questions concerning territorial autonomy? Moreover, the dilemma of the Senate's powers in relation to relations with the European Union remains: the Senate participates in the decision on the formation of Community acts, but lacks powers of political direction over the Government; Same for the connection with the European Union and the Regions, which presupposes some power of initiative towards the Government. The theme of relations with the Government is probably the most delicate and all in all it is grafted on a more general issue, which we could summarize as follows: is it acceptable the configuration of the Senate as the second Chamber, elected by regional councillors, in a system in which the first Chamber is preparing to be elected with a strongly majority system and with candidates appointed by the parties? The problems of electoral law and Senate reform are not independent, and it is no coincidence that a comparative analysis shows examples of more balanced solutions: a Great Britain with a House of Commons elected with a dry majority, but in individual single-member colleges, and a House of Lords very detached from party logics; a Germany with a Bundesrat expression of the Länder governments, but with a Bundestag elected with a proportional system; the United States with a House of Representatives and a Senate elected with substantially majority systems, but in a bicameralism that remains equal. In other countries, therefore, there is a balance that is in danger of missing or jumping in Italy: the proportionality of the distribution of the few senatorial seats between the Regions must be reckoned with a representation in the regional councils that is based on majority systems, while in the Chamber we are oriented towards a system with a strong majority prize and without preferences: too little, probably, to guarantee genuine democratic choices. Whether there is little contradiction, at least on the attention to democracy, also denotes the choices on the referendum: the quorum for the collection of signatures is elevated to 800,000 voters, and is only partly tempered by the possible lowering of the quorum of validity, (with a strange literal reference to the electors who participated in the politics, it is imagined not referring to natural persons). In this regard, and it is indeed worrying, the draft law in Article 34 provides that the Court's control of the admissibility of referendums is activated with a request made by at least 400,000 voters: this is an unintelligible provision, which seems not to refer to the original request for referendums. Is respect for the Constitution and the limits on the eligibility of the referendum available, which can be examined à la carte? Undemocratic, in conclusion, are also the provisions relating to the draft law of popular initiative, where the minimum number of subscribers has even fivefold, and the regulations of the Chambers is put back to the guarantee of the examination of such draft laws. Finally, it should not be forgotten that an important part of this bill is devoted to the Regions. The starting premise, from which the Government moved and which was not abandoned by the Commission, is simply wrong: the cause of the State-Regions litigation would be identifiable in the so-called competing competence. This is not true, because the examination of constitutional jurisprudence confirms rather that the majority of the litigation arises from the interpretation of the subjects of state exclusive authority and another part concerns the so-called residual materials, that is those not named which would fall within the exclusive regional authority. Therefore, the draft law under consideration does not solve the problem of litigation and, incidentally, we are convinced that the new Senate will not succeed in this regard either. Moreover, the expansion of state competence in the draft law is really remarkable; just think that administrative procedures, more than what happens today, will in fact be regulated at national level; the employment relationship becomes subject to unitary discipline for public employees as well as, as already happened, for private ones; university education, for example, is attributed to the State, apart from the provisions on the right to study. This is a matter of course important, but we believe that it has lower profiles of unitary needs than occupational safety or the environment, to give two examples. In general, and in conclusion, it has always been said that, without the possibility of having access to private law, criminal law and procedural law, the Regions remained only administrative law. But what room for manoeuvre will be left to the Regions once the administrative procedure and the employment relationship of the employees are effectively governed by the State? The regions will only be left with the possibility of introducing promotional measures, apart from perhaps health and transport. It should be remembered that the Regions will depend on the State for a large part of their financial resources and that in this respect, precisely in the matter of budgetary maneuver, the Senate - according to the bill "non Renzi-non Boschi" - will be able to request the revision of the laws only by voting by an absolute majority of its members. Here ends the technical part of my speech. I would like to say a few words for the benefit of the less technical citizens who listen to us on radio, on TV and on the Internet. The main reasons why this reform has been implemented are that the legislative production procedure is viscous: it is said that perfect bicameralism slows down legislative production. I would like to remind you that if there is a problem in Italy it is that we have too many laws, not too few. Since when is legislative production the problem if we have too many? We have ten times the number of laws in Germany and France. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So the problem is not that we have a process of production flooded, but that, on the contrary, we produce too much, at least in form, not in substance, because then always lack the implementing decrees. It seems that we produce a lot, but without the implementing decrees there is no substance. The government says it wants to help the country by slimming down the bureaucratic procedure at the highest level, that is, in Parliament, by reducing the power of the Senate. I would like to say to the Government that, if it really wants to help Italy, it must simplify the bureaucracy of industrial enterprises. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Those were stifled by bureaucratic procedures. We, as the 150,000 laws produced so far speak, do well, we are not at all flooded; indeed, when we want a law, we let it pass in two or three weeks. I remember the Fornero reform and other things like that. As the President-in-Office mentioned, the problem is not the lack of legislation. This, I repeat, is what the President-in-Office of the Council said a few days ago about the MOSE case: "the laws are there but are not respected." Once again it is not a problem of legislative production, with which we are in hypertrophy, but simply that laws are not respected. And who's the first one who doesn't respect the laws? The Government of course, because it does not respect Article 77 of the Constitution [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which - I say this for the benefit of the Italians - is what speaks of decrees-laws and explicitly says that these can be issued only in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. Now, you don't have to be a law graduate to understand that, since the Constitution was written a few months after the end of World War II, cases of extraordinary urgency and necessity mean wars, earthquakes and floods: disasters of this kind, for which the Government must act in a few minutes and then Parliament will of course have to ratify. So are we sure we want a single room? I ask all my colleagues and the Government: are we sure that we want that Chamber in Montecitorio in which in December we recorded the phone call of the lobbyist who boasted of how he had managed to influence dozens of decisions made in Montecitorio? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Other Members have already said that another reason why we want to do this reform is to overcome the perfect bicameralism. Why, then - I also ask the same question - nine years ago, when it was proposed by the then Berlusconi Government, the parties that are now in government with much vehemence, much decision and spending of words, invited the Italians to reject that reform? There are two cases; either they were wrong then, or they are wrong now, because we are talking about the same thing. 18.37 (Following GIROTTO). Finally, I would like to focus on costs: one of the reasons why people say that they want to reform the Senate. Again, examples of how to recover these costs are wasted. I think someone has already said that in order to reduce a figure of this kind it would be enough to give up only one F35. However, since someone might object that the F35s still serve something - even if I don't actually know what - I would like to explain to the Italians that these 200, 300 or 400 million that we could save by reducing the functions of the Senate we could get them very well by removing the virtual interconnectors. I'll explain what they are, because probably not everyone knows them. In parallel with this decree, we are discussing the measure on competitiveness with rules on electricity. These virtual interconnectors, in essence, are promises; that is, we have given money to companies in exchange for the promise that they would undertake to build physical and real electing lines: cables, trellises, so something concrete and real. This money we have paid, or rather, you Italians have paid with the electricity bill of every day, and have ended up only on certain subjects that normally consume a lot of energy; of these real, concrete and physical lines, however, not even one has been built. That's where we can make money; we can just make it by not making promises that are not then kept, giving money to people who don't actually keep their promises. This was for the benefit of the Italians who listen to us. I hope they understand that this is a reform that simply wants to increase the power of party secretariats. It is clear that with representatives of the Senate taken by mayors and regional councillors, the influence of the parties will increase considerably. The oligarchy that we already have in place at this moment will make a qualitative leap and the power of those who already govern us will be doubled. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u29	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u30	Mr President, Senators, Senators, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has just completed its examination of the reform of the Senate and Title V; it would have been absolutely necessary to have reasonable time between the approval of the text in the Commission and the debate in this House. Those who claim that this Government is constantly looking for models that increase the speed of approval of laws, in a sort of legislative futurism that promises efficiency and gets only bureaucracy, in a decision without any real decision and, above all, Luigi Einaudi was right in appreciating parliamentary slowness as the virtue capable of limiting regulatory excesses. There is a time of incubation to mature thoughtful ideas and solutions, since we are talking about substantial changes to our Constitution and our democracy, for which the constituent Fathers have reserved reasonable times in the perspective of a elaboration before political thought, of the humus itself of evolution of a society. Perhaps it is from society, from listening to citizens that reform should be shared and, of course, from high-profile political summaries. It would be sufficient to start again from the common feeling to trace a crystal clear path according to the will expressed clearly by one and a half million citizens, who collected their signatures in conjunction with the examination in the Chamber of Deputies of the draft government law revising Article 138, which cancels the safety valve designed to prevent upheavals of the Constitution. The petitioners' will was expressed in favour of a constitutional review process on the lines of constitutional legality, a process of discussion respecting the time of the constitutional dictation, as a guarantee of the necessary weighting of the proposals for revision, of the necessary deepening and also of the possibility of rethinking. Already then, having chosen to close the summer holidays, the first reading of the constitutional bill prevented a serious involvement of the public in the debate. On the other hand, we were asked quite clearly, in addition to giving Parliament back its fundamental role in the process of revising the Charter, also the possibility for citizens to vote on clear, well-defined and homogeneous draft revisions in their content. The general indication that more than 69 articles of the Constitution should be revised clearly contradicts this requirement. After a year it would seem that Italians do not want Renzi's Senate. This is clearly highlighted by the sample survey of 1,000 people representing the electoral corps curated by IPR Marketing. 63 percent of Italians would prefer to abolish the Senate, while 34 percent would assign it other functions and, if it had to stay alive, as proposed by the Government, then 55 percent would want it elected by the people and over 30 made up of mayors and regional councillors, as foreseen by the reform under discussion. But what worries me most is the democratic compression that is being determined in the internal discussion of parties and of those who disagree, with subjects of master style in the media. More serious than all this is that we have to discuss a text that no one knows in fact yet in depth, jammed (defined as well by one of the rapporteurs). I agree with the comments of those who denounce a worse situation than democratic centralism, on the Russian constitutional model, at Putin-Medvedev. Historically it is true that even Togliatti did not dream of preventing Concetto Marchesi from giving up opposition to Article 7 of the Constitution. There really has not been, at least in a liberal democratic country, such a heavy government to enter into the substance of a constitutional law. What about listening to citizens? This should be the obligatory, simple and natural path of the legislator. To this responsibility we are called or it will be like to the disaster of Concord, where we seek responsibility in the middle and not in those who led it to break, where to sink is the ship of our Constitution and to be inadequate now is a ruling class become only ruling class, that resists careless of the damages that it has caused, while we assist helpless to the macro-emergencies of the Country, like the drama of the work or the shame of the MOSE affair, just to name a few, a couple. Where are you taking us? Any change in the direction of which the Constitution represents the compass requires insights, investigations, listening, robust synthesis and high compromises, which are of greater value over time and transitory than the current policy. All the more so because a very important fact emerges, which everyone underestimated: the absence of any form of conservatism on the subject of reforms, but the willingness on the part of all political forces to make them more up-to-date and feasible. For example, almost no one defends the Porcellum; and then what prevents us from continuing naturally, according to the will expressed by the citizens? Instead, the most disparate proposals, the call to models from other countries, are pierced; we do not need them. We do not need to borrow other universes in order to find some harmony between electoral systems and citizens' orientation. We have an open Constitution, capable of guiding fundamental political choices, and a tradition of constitutionalists who have shown us the path to follow in relation to the model of state declined in its democratic and social dimension. Democracy does not end up in a mere structure of government, but more generally concerns the correlation between society and the state. One of the corollaries of democracy is the need, in order to counter an excessive concentration of power, to improve the instruments of people's participation in political decisions, to extend judicial remedies to safeguard fundamental rights and to implement a pluralistic framework, which favours a wide decentralisation of functions. The Constituents have been able to build a system based on weights and counterweights, able to function perfectly, able to resist to the test of time and to profoundly different contexts. On the other hand, the government's draft law of initiative is unable to achieve any of the objectives that are foreshadowed, much less that in itself appreciable to overcome the perfect bicameralism, as it makes the Senate regress to a substantially consultative body, with the exception of constitutional revision laws. The new Senate, as defined in the government proposal, would consist of people already burdened with commitments on the territory, in addition to the consequence that the political dialectic between majority and opposition will be replaced by a territorial dialectic, which risks undermining the already fragile foundations of national unity. Not to mention that the combination between the Senate reform proposed by the Government and the electoral law resulting from the meeting between Renzi and Berlusconi, Italicum, risks undermining the very foundations of democracy, with a majority that, with 25% of the votes, at best, will have a free hand to the House and also to the Senate, with the power to determine all institutional structures, from the President of the Republic to the CSM. We believe that we need to achieve a differentiated bicameralism for functions, in which Parliament legislates through a few qualified laws of principle and controls the government's work in implementing them. While the Chamber of Deputies, through the trust link with the Government, should deal with the implementation of the political direction, the Senate should be set up as a Chamber responsible for the protection of rights and guarantees, capable of promoting quality legislation, assessing the impact, even territorial, of public policies and exercising a penetrating inspection and control power, for example on the work of the top public structures and public-sector companies. The zeroing of any balance of powers, or the prospect of a hypertrophic executive, is therefore not acceptable. A fake Senate, a ghost of itself, to which, however, with an amendment by the rapporteurs, would regain power over the budget, is the answer to the demand for democracy expressed by the citizens? It is clear that, provided for the most thorny articles, such as the one on the composition of the new non-elective Senate, on the vote on reforms weigh the internal force relations of the parties, the eternal italic dichotomy between announced reforms and the preservation of the status quo. That is why we in the Left Ecology and Freedom and the Mixed Group have signed the alternative amendments to the Government's project, also in the hope of denying the proposed counter-reform the two-thirds necessary to bypass the confirmation referendum. Let's at least leave open the last opening of direct participation. We are in favour of the reduction of senators and Members, from 630 to 315 or 450, of the equalization of compensation to those of the mayors of the big cities, of the elimination of all forms of immunity (except, of course, the indisputability of the opinions expressed as parliamentarians), of the fight against waste and privileges. Above all, however, we defend the direct and proportional election of senators and the competences of the Senate on fundamental issues such as constitutional laws, health protection, freedoms and fundamental rights. For this reason I find it extremely interesting the proposal of the constitutionalist Cesare Pinelli to focus on the safeguarding of the role of guarantee of the Senate, making it precisely a Guarantee Chamber dedicated to high legislation (constitutional revisions and laws implementing fundamental rights). The opportunity would be extraordinary to introduce a new type of laws, organic ones, that exist in all the more evolved systems, on fundamental rights (health, work, social security) to put an end to the normative chaos represented by decrees and omnibus laws. Reserves of organic laws would force Parliament, at least on fundamental issues, to coherence of the regulatory set and to non-controversiality. That is why the Senate must be elective. Otherwise, we risk the political system that is caused by Parliament's strong exclusion. Senate reform can be the best opportunity to rethink the rule of law and democracy. Let us try to reason on the idea of a sort of turn from the perfect bicameralism to that of guarantee, which points to the quality of legislation: few laws a year, provided that written in a simple and clear form of principles, delegated the managerial functions to the Government and increasing the powers of control and direction of Parliament. No one would prevent this from being done in the present system, but if we want to put our hand on the Charter, we can introduce a new instrument to treat the plague of law: we need to strengthen the hierarchy of sources, introducing a third level, so that, in addition to current constitutional and ordinary laws, laws in the form of codes, understood as unitary texts, which organically regulate the principles, criteria and objectives in the different fields of public life. In short, as Carlo Galli pointed out in a conference on reforms, I certainly find paradoxical that in the current phase, in which we are totally delivered to contingency, we can think of the reform of a constitutional body, built to have in itself the custody of the future, for mediation and not for immediacy. The Senate is part of the complexity that must be abolished with the most absurd pretexts and must be transformed into a megaphone of widespread interests, which must not find synthesis in that forum, but exclusively in the Government, holder of supreme legitimacy for having won elections managed by an electoral law built specifically to simplify and kill, in an extreme majority twist, the existing political forces, except two or three, preventing them from being born in the future, as well as building a society in which politics does not have an articulated form and the interest in politics does not translate into autonomous forms. In this disconnected context, there is coherence: because we cannot put our hand in the relationship between politics and the economy, we are able to make the political system a space in which only the government can distangle itself. In short, I believe that many are the points to be addressed, but, in the limited time we have, I find it really curious that, in response to the question of participation and control of citizens and to the distrust towards politics and the so-called caste, by appealing the flag of renewal, the Government proposes a Senate of nominees, of the and of the caste, and to the Chamber lists more blocked than with the Porcellum, indeed armored by the party leaders, wedges of regional advisers appointed by their colleagues (570 of which are inquisited, even if not condemned, for charity). This is all the more so in a situation in which, for that institutional dimension, in the Regions, in addition to the legitimate defence on the individual legal level - different for each one, as there are obviously different accusations - there is a problem of relegitimacy with respect to public opinion, still stunned by scandals and some convictions that, in striking cases, have uncovered a real wormhole (I think about the previous administration of the Lazio Region, but not only). Stop then with the crazy polls and save the money [[Applause from Senator Mangili]] ; Questions such as: "Do you want to eliminate the Senate?" Of course it is. If you want to add this to these questions: "Do you want to delete the House?"I think they would answer: It's not like that. A survey was commissioned to the IPR, the result of which was the answer: However, if it remains, it must be voted by the people. The language of the government - a delicate issue - made of populism and plebeism, sometimes even of great irony and dileggio, I think it is wrong to use it for everyone, even for oppositions - as well as the culture underlying it is wrong - but it is worrying when to use it are the power, the government and the majority, both inside and outside. I come from a school where the teachers had names like Luigi Petroselli, mayor of Rome, who of the fight against plebeism and easy rebellion made a flag, and a school precisely. All the more so now we must all make this effort to listen to each other, because it is the supreme good that we are going to reform, that is not untouchable, but it is precisely with this spirit, with this attention and with this willingness to listen that this matter must be addressed. On the part of those who govern and have the responsibility of the majority, numbers are made on the caste, with proclamations of the type: We have eliminated a few thousand politicians, as in the case of the Provinces (but then we will see what happened, as has been mentioned in previous speeches). However, I do not hear about those thousands and thousands of others nominated in about 7,000 participating companies, so instead the status is consolidated, perhaps because they have all made an act of conversion to the philosophy of the current Government and because all the new appointments have that sign of loyalty to the Executive. Here there is no waste: we are talking about 30,000-35,000 nominated, not the 3,000 of the Provinces, who took a token of a few hundred euros; we are talking about millions: I believe that, all together, it is a package that exceeds the billion. Really, then, the demagogy of those with power is serious. The Government and the President of the Council are the protagonists of an extraordinary act. There are six million total poor people: ISTAT said this yesterday, not some sort of political institution; it is not a survey. We are talking about millions of children and elderly people who do not have the opportunity to respond to their essential needs, do not have food, daily bread. It's not "poverty 2.0", it's an ancient drama that is repeated today in Italy. When the extraordinary work of reunification took place in Germany, other than budgetary and fiscal compact balances. Then, if there is courage, this must be done, this is what we expect from the government: fighting poverty, development, investment and work without neighborhoods. It's not demagogy, it's not the '47 program. It is today's programme, which is essential to be credible: not institutional engineering, not jokes, but at a low level. A provocation, however, I want to do it. Putting hand to the Constitution, why not repeal Article 81, that shirt of force that, in the delirium of the short era of Monti, you have self-inflicted? Renzi in Europe has lost credibility, even recently. Everyone has understood this, unfortunately, and I say unfortunately because he asked for derogations and time, because that shirt of strength, on which water was thrown, begins to tighten, and they do not hear us. Some say: "We'll see," but they don't hear us, because it's a very strong argument, which was challenged by the greatest economic exponents and experts, American Nobel Prize winners, non-Chinese or Korean. Article 81, in fact, the balance of the budget, the fiscal compact. Let's free Italy and get rid of it. In this we will help you. Stop with the bullshit polls: save the money, as I said before. Go and truly evaluate the answers and dramatic conditions in which we live. This is the provocation that I do: inside the rewriting of the Constitution, let the question of freeing our Constitutional Charter from that article 81 that not the constituent Fathers, but you, a few years ago, suddenly, in the short era of Monti, have inserted. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u31	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express a very positive opinion on the reform proposal that we are considering today and on which we are debating, which is the result of positive work in two respects: from the point of view of the spirit of the Constitution and from the political point of view. Today we have a draft reform that is the result of a virtuous synergy between the role played by the Government (in a condition in which, in the year that we have behind us, it had not been possible, neither at parliamentary level nor at governmental level, to draw up a reform project instead; there was therefore the determination, the will and the ability of the Head of Government and Minister Boschi, representing the government team, to carry out the reform project with determination) and, on the other hand, the work of the Commission, which has been valuable, very valid and which has deeply affected the proposed bill, restoring a dignity and a role to Parliament. These were interventions that - alas - divisions, difficulties, inability, shyness (or, at times, remaining anchored to a rhetoric that then translates into a preservation of the current constitutional text) had not allowed. I would therefore like to thank all the members of the Commission for their work and, in particular, for President Finocchiaro and, if you will allow me, for the members of the Democratic Party, who have made a strong contribution together with the others. Thank you, for all, the leader Lo Moro. However, I must say that in this debate I was surprised by two levels of serious political insufficiency. First of all, there are those who have shocked a pile of insults, with great arrogance and without a minimum of restraint in what has been expressed in this House, using unacceptable terms, but who have not served to fill the absolute political vacuum and the absolute inability to confront themselves and to make proposals. All this happened in the aftermath of a vote that saw the choice of citizens strongly addressed on who wants to invest on the country's ability to come out of the crisis and on who wants to approve and carry on a reform process, that has severely reduced those who, instead, bet on the debacle. Then there is a rhetoric, a continuous search for misplaced quotations (at least so I found them) and a search for terms and elements whose use, frankly, I find at least disproportionate for a reform process. I am referring to the use of expressions such as "authoritarian", "system derivative", "rationalization" of the Constitution and even the reference to authoritarian characters. I find this use, frankly, even more negative, because it belongs to forces that then, in the end, condemn themselves to political marginality (from this point of view, the polls are not valid, Mr Cervellini, but the vote of the citizens expressed a month ago, which was very clear, in favour of those who wanted to support a reform process and against those who are anchored on a no to everything). From this point of view, wanting to continue to say no to any change in the Constitution means making the worst service to our Constitution, which precisely because it is a Constitution valid in its foundation, needs some updates and some innovations. I wonder what would have happened if we were here today to discuss, as was suggested at the beginning of the legislature, the change in the form of government or the form of state. What was supposed to happen? We have heard statements that really are not in heaven or on earth. The elements of strengthening the bill of institutional reform presented by the Government have been well indicated, in a very effective way, by the intervention of President Finocchiaro. We have a solid reference to democratic and constitutional models of our continent. I quote for all France and Germany, and I don't do it by accident. Although we are original in our bicameral system, we basically find the main elements of a second Chamber, not elected by the citizens and that, however, in addition to representing the ordering of local autonomy and the regional order (or, in the case of Germany, a federal state) participates fully, like the other Chambers of other European countries, in the constitutional process, in some important elements of the legislative process and in important functions and does not express the vote of confidence in the Government. We have taken this model in essence, so a whole series of calls to authoritarian drifts or constitutional upheavals are not founded. Also on the subject of the election system, frankly, I think there has been an over-exposition and over-emphasis on an element that I do not find essential, precisely because we engage in tried constitutional models that work, with references to large countries. In Europe, among the great countries, the only Senate that has a direct majority is that of Spain, but this is not an element that must cause us to reject constitutional reform in such a way that it is proposed. Good recovery on Title V. In this case there was indeed a vulnus, with an excess of centralization towards the State, which contradicted our tradition of autonomy and the principle of subsidiarity, of the government of the territories, of the responsibility of the local communities. From this point of view, a decent level has been recovered compared to an excess that was also the result of summary media processes. We are realizing, in fact, how the main inefficiencies are nested, then, in the bureaucracies of the central state. Good also on the referendum, but also in this case we greatly expand the use of this instrument. Those who have spoken on this subject have said things that do not take account of the fact that changing the quorum to enforce the referendums, even in the light of the vote of the last parliamentary elections, will give ample space to this instrument. However, I have listened to contradictory speeches. We cannot, in fact, do the strenuous defence of the Constitution, so we must not touch anything, and then celebrate referendum democracy, which is the exact opposite of the spirit of representative democracy contained in our Constitution. Democracy is either representative or not. The spirit of the Constitution was to incorporate certain elements of referendum democracy, not to transform it in this sense. There are problems that I want to stress: one concerns the election of the President of the Republic. I believe it is right - and I have signed the relevant amendment - to extend the college for the election of the President of the Republic with MEPs. I believe that encouraging a wider college, whose members are elected at different times, is a very useful guarantee. I would also like to draw the attention of the rapporteurs to the worsening of Article 138 of the Constitution. I believe that we should not say goodbye to the possibility that a two-thirds majority will not be reached in the parliamentary vote and that we should have recourse to a referendum. I think that is a good thing. However, I believe that for the future - because it is clear that an amendment would not be worth today - a worsening of the procedure provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution is absolutely useful, all the more so because this can facilitate a more serene debate on the forthcoming changes in the reform of the Constitution, if one wishes to address the issue of the change of the form of State or of the form of Government. On the other hand, I recall that our procedure for amending the Constitution is the least aggravated among the Constitutions of the main European countries. Another element that I would consider is our local self-government system. I believe, President Finocchiaro, that there is a break in the plot of the local self-government. The institutional endowment on the territories is unbalanced. Central State, Regions, Metropolitan Cities: there is an institutional superdot for some territories (the metropolitan areas and the capitals of the Region), while the peripheral areas are left uncovered, which cannot be ruled only by the Municipalities and the Municipal Unions. We cannot allow entire territories and an important part of our population to be subject to reductions in services and institutional governance capacity. I therefore believe that this issue must be addressed, either by the definition of large-scale bodies or by the power of the regions to organise their territories through a process of decentralisation of powers and functions. Furthermore, I consider that the issue of civil rights is a strengthening of the functions of the Senate. I think it might be useful to acknowledge the improvement that has been made and that also concerns the reinforced procedures for the adoption of a measure, when the House does not conform to the Senate's remarks. I believe that this further aspect can be taken into account. I would like to conclude on a subject of context, raised in all speeches: the subject of electoral law and autonomy. We must remember the difficulties we had last year, in the aftermath of the elections, when there was no majority with the electoral system in place. We have been stuck for a long time in the impossibility to equip this country with an electoral system capable of securing a majority after the vote, which is fundamental for the reliability of our country and for being able to govern. Today the electoral instrument approved in the Chamber has two great advantages: it guarantees a sure winner in the aftermath of the elections and does not force to electoral coalitions, an element that has seriously weighed on the capacity of government of the second Republic, where the coalitions very wide, the electoral cartels to which the Mattarellum forced have produced enormous difficulties, few reforms and also a stagnation of the development of our country. I believe that when we talk about electoral law we cannot forget these two elements. There is the element of the choice on the part of citizens of their representatives in Parliament and this has value in many respects; in my opinion, the best system can be that of a law requiring parties to conduct primary elections or that of dual gender preference, which appears to be a preferable solution compared to the single colleges, which have seen a practice of using parties with the trust of safe colleges to certain candidates regardless of territoriality, with a sort of mechanism to blocked lists. This element has value because it is not really so much the quorum or the number of senators that affect the guarantees, even in the election of the President of the Republic. Even now, in the current situation, with respect to the President of the Republic, with laws that still provide for a majority prize, when parliamentarians are completely and totally chosen and not identified and elected by the citizens, it is ultimately a matter of responsibility for who is the President of the Republic. Today the problem is not so much about formal acts, but the fact that a behavior of the President of the Republic materially eversive could essentially not be blocked except through the only instrument that the Constitution provides, which is the state of indictment. The indictment of a President controlling the majority of Parliament would, however, be impossible, so in that case the Constitution would really be discovered. I believe that Members who respond to the citizens and who have their own strength and autonomy for the electoral consensus they receive are really the best antidote to any authoritarian drift. This, however, is a risk, I repeat to all those who today have wasted themselves with misplaced adjectives, which is not about this reform, but about our current condition. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u33	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u34	Mr President, I am excited to be here to speak in defence of the parliamentary system, representativeness and democracy, but at the same time I have a deep sense of dismay, because I am aware that all this will be useless, because you have already decided. This is nothing more than the last act of a long process that originated decades ago and which today is simply carried out: it is put in black, inside our Constitution, with a bill imposed by the Government to the Commission in an unusual and embarrassing way. But we have had proof every day of this XVII legislature that the Renzi reform has already been implemented for some time. The Chambers are no longer, as our Constitution states, the body that is the holder of the legislative function and political control over the Government within the political system. They are not in charge of the legislative function, since in sixteen months only seven draft laws of parliamentary initiative have been approved in these classrooms on the 3,785, against 48 of government initiative of which 34 decrees-laws, of which 21 submitted to the judgment of confidence (of course no law of popular initiative, which have been lying in drawers for years). We regret to point out that in about twelve months of the Letta Government 16 decrees and eight trusts were issued, while in only five months of the Renzi Government 18 decrees-laws and 13 trusts were issued. That's the change of direction, isn't it? I am not talking about the government's function of political control, given Parliament's prone position at the will of the Commission. Just the day before yesterday I asked the Presidents of the Commission, after the hearings on Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 (after we all unanimously came to the conclusion that some, for us not only some, provisions are objectively counterproductive and wrong), what possibilities, what actions agreed between us were possible to correct the decree in an amending phase: I was told, with a smile, that they sincerely do not know, that they must ask the Government what to do, abdicating the duty to tell them what to do. Today, again, the "cut-off" to the number of amendments arrives in the Commission, with the blackmail that otherwise the Government will be forced to ask for trust. These are only the last two events brought as an example. This reform, therefore, puts in place a top concentration of powers and decisions, which is in fact already being carried out for some time. Why? This is always the first of all the questions to ask: why? They tell us, in the name of governability. The debate and the debate are reset, participation is reset, Parliamentary representativeness is reset. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] All this is justified by the false argument of the slowness of parliamentary work (although many laws, as has already been pointed out, have been adopted in just twenty days), and we are full (also underlined) of laws, rules and derogations, above all we are full of derogations from the laws that we continually do and then do not respect them and do not enforce them. It would be enough, in our opinion (we have already said this), to improve the Rules of the House and Senate to obtain optimization of the times and results. Thus, in the name of the legislative "fetta" on the altar of governability, the fundamental democratic function of control of the Chambers over the Government is sacrificed. In fact, let's face it clearly, not only the Senate is eliminated, but the other House is also "in": it neutralizes itself, it is completely subject to the will of the executive power with a constitutional norm. While it is true that the use of the decree of urgency is better regulated, it is also true that the Government is given the power to operate in the manner of the decree with ordinary laws (for which there will be 60 days to say yes or no), that they will no longer have the constitutional limits of the decrees, neither the limit of extraordinaryness, urgency and necessity, nor the legislative limit of homogeneity. It will depend only on the will and arbitrariness of the government to decide which and how. The reform obliges citizens to vote for the Chamber of Deputies alone, but these "elected survivors" will still be elected with blocked lists, i.e. they will always be appointed by party leaders, although they have been considered unconstitutional; therefore, not free men in the exercise of their electoral mandate, with freedom of expression, who are not bound by the party; not free men, chosen by the popular vote with the only absolute bond represented by political responsibility with the elector, as would be with the vote of preference. No. In addition, the majority prize will allow the largest minority to become a majority and will effectively prevent equality of vote. The artificial majority thus created will be able to exercise its dictatorship on the only surviving Chamber, which will in turn be subjected to the dictatorship of man only under the command that appointed it. The Senate, then, is an ugly pasticciaccio of representatives of the territorial institutions that, in contrast to the principle of equality, will enjoy privileges and mandates, including immunity, not derived from the mandate of the vote by universal suffrage of the people, but from the vote of the Regional Council, even if they will be mayors. We will have territorial administrators acting as part-time senators who will have to assume the legislative function and decide on constitutional laws and the election of the President of the Republic, who will have mandate for the dissolution of their regional councils and who will actually be able to set up committees of inquiry, yes, but only on their own territorial affairs, i.e. they will be able to investigate, but only on themselves. Citizens will lose the substance of their right to vote and democracy will be reduced to a television contest between the two major party leaders. Minorities will have no voice and no right of representation, or rather some minorities that have been granted will be able with a majority prize - which, I recall, together with the proportional system is a constitutional absurdity - to be different from minorities, more minorities than others, as Orwell would say. Whoever wins will take everything, appoint the President of the Republic and determine the fate of the Constitutional Court. But when did this begin? The mystic of governance was born decades ago as a counter-revolution of a political and financial elite to the realization of the social state, built in those that were said by others the thirty golden years of the social revolution and cultural revolution, the decades of the struggles and conquests of our grandparents and our fathers, those who laid the foundations of welfare, who built with hard brick on brick public school, public health, the rights of workers and women, the rights for all. It is in those years that the cultural roots of a possible dream are guarded; it is from that humus that still derive us the images of another possible world of development, that leaves no one behind, that sees in the participation, in the common good and in the distribution of resources, the true balance for a community capable of being truly democratic, equal and respectful of the environment in a natural way. What you want to destroy is all this. From this will of destruction and annihilation comes the removal of parties from society, which is not accidental. The crisis of representativeness arises naturally from the fact that the parties over time have no longer qualified themselves as extractors-selectors of social questions coordinated into credible programs, but have become stakeholders of other and particular interests, of external and often foreign decision-makers. To degrade the parties and politics in what they have become was precisely the renunciation of the specific function of being at the service of the community, in favour of a fantastic governability. First of all, because governing is more attractive and easier than representing, also because it avoids having to answer questions that are not elusive, because they are not compatible with the answers that you are obliged to provide to the true masters, to the stakeholders, to the financial market. But indeed the ungovernability of Parliament of failed bipolarism and only apparent representation is precisely the result of forced governability. As someone has been able to synthesize very well, Italy is ungovernable because one tries to govern it by force, and not the opposite. So now you can see why and why so fast. It is necessary to close and tighten the authoritarian grip dressed with populism and false motivations before free and independent citizens invade the whole institutions and reverse the course of the counter-reform with which, one by one, you are disassembling the bricks and walls of the building, you are carefully dismantling the rule of law, replacing plurality and participation the unique thought of proprietary individualism, unfair and destructive competition and rapacious competition and bulimic exploitation. Yet an unprecedented event has happened in Italy in the history of the States: the declaration of unconstitutionality of the system of election of Parliament, that is, the founding law of the form of State, which introduces to the form of government. In any other democratic and civil state this event would have caused the immediate dissolution, without delay, of the Chambers elected with that system. It would have been possible and fair to go to the elections with constitutionally correct electoral law and immediately usable purified according to the indications coming from the Court. What happens instead? The two Houses remain impudibly in office, including the unjust, unconstitutional majority prize: a real abuse, which sees 150 honourable Members sitting between the House and the Senate, who unjustly vote. They choose the President of the Republic, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and decide every day on fundamental laws for our country, and - look a bit'- on constitutional reform, government-designed, and then on electoral law, determining a structural change of our Constitution, killing the parliamentary assembly system founded on representativeness, in an illegal and illegal manner. When something really serious and scandalous happens it is necessary to stop everything and make the forces converge on that one goal; the voices that rise must be a single voice and the news that must come out must be one. This is normally the case when a democratic emergency invades us. It also happens to the biological organism that in the face of an exceptional fact converges all its resources and forces in the point attacked by the pathogen. This should now be the case for constitutional reform, but we must fight too many attacks at the same time: the attack on the environment contained in Decree-Law No 91, the land of fires with recent data from the Higher Institute of Health, the new ILVA decree, Palestine (how can we keep quiet about Palestine?). Wait a minute. How many emergencies do we have to deal with together? The work, the cities that fall on our children and kill them, the boats of desperate immigrants to welcome, the health care, the danger of new plants, of new treaties: there is not even a way to list everything. We are the country in constant emergency, we are the country where the voices of protest are lost in a disarmed and disarmed scream, in a overlapping of confused sounds, where too much ends with the becoming nothing. Pornography's junk TV has taught us this: we are able to get used to everything and not to scandalize ourselves any more than nothing. It is just the too much, the overabundance and the enormity of the facts that anesthetize us. We should try to understand where all this originated, when we began to get used to all this, when it seemed quite normal to see a convict of the state for 360 million dollars go to the Quirinale to discuss constitutional reforms and to lay down its own conditions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; assist us as they disassemble the Constitution piece by piece with half a bored smile. When did all this happen, when did we turn like this? Was it with Craxi's speech in the House? When for his defense he said "so do they all" and no one stood up in protest? Or was it the speech of Violante, when he admitted that the party had not put its hand in the conflict of interest for an agreement with Berlusconi and that Mediaset had benefited widely from it and had to recognize it? I believe that we should have rebelled against Craxi's speech and I believe that when Violante spoke we should have understood everything. In over twenty years they have put in place a perfect cultural counter-revolution, through Mediaset televisions, thanks to the deliberately failed law on conflict of interest; they have carefully emptied our brains and brains of our children to fill them with nothing. At small doses, as we do with a powerful poison, we have become accustomed to everything, a little at a time, so that nothing would kill us and nothing more indignant us really, not to the point of giving up our little privileges, at least, whatever they are: 80 euros more in the pay envelope, for example, even though we already knew - that on another side they would take them away from us; but, as someone said, we live with illusions and what appears sometimes is more true than what is true. But now we're at the point of no return. If this reform passes - and it will pass - it will take decades to return to a democratic state and it will be dark times, because here we are not putting only our destiny in the hands of one man only at the command: we are handing our future into the hands of unholy interests that will definitively accomplish the ruin of rights, the sale of common goods, the environmental exploitation already begun, which will give concrete form to a system of prevarication and control over everyone and everything. (19.29) (Nugnes follow). One last appeal: do you want governability? Do shared projects for the common good, of common sense [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; governed well without favoring the few to the detriment of the many, with a spirit of balance and justice, and then you will see how you will get governability. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u35	Senator Gotor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u36	Mr President, the reports by Senators Finocchiaro and Calderoli, the work of these months in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has improved the basic text of the Government in qualifying points, and also my previous speeches in this House, exhort me from the need to reiterate the arguments in support of the current process of constitutional reform. Political arguments, starting from the observation that this reform will strengthen, as it is right that it is, and more than perhaps today, the stability and energy of government action. This will take place with the introduction of a single trust relationship, the identification of a single political chamber and the establishment of a preferential lane for the draft law of the Executive. There are also economic arguments that concern the necessary reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, since the only possible way to attack in a structural way the Italian public debt, the real anomaly of our country with respect to the European context, is precisely to alter the relations between the Central State and the Regions by establishing a Senate of the autonomous with a function of compensation and coordination that reduces the litigation before the Constitutional Court and makes the system as a whole more efficient. In order to offset this strengthening of the Commission's powers, it seemed to me very appropriate to intervene on the revitalization of the repealing referendum instrument. It is true that the threshold of signatures relating to the admissibility of questions has risen, following a proportional trend with population growth compared to 1945, but it has not been properly valued, in my opinion, the novelty represented by the inclusion of the mobile quorum which, in fact, will shift the threshold of validity of a referendum from 51% to about 35, making the instrument again actually workable. I also believe that it is important to intervene with a special amendment on the instrument of referendums, because the current crisis in relations between institutions and citizens cannot find a solution only from above but must go through enlargement and the involvement of voters directly in the legislative and decision-making processes. It also seems significant to me that I raised the quorum to elect the President of the Republic. I hope that it will also be possible to enlarge the college of great voters, as Senator Casini recalled today, with the inclusion of the 73 Members of the European Parliament, in order to greatly reduce the chances that the winner of the majority prize, in the event of a coincidence between the general elections and the end of the seven-year period, will be able to elect the President of the Republic in a self-sufficient way with the vote of less than thirty new senators. In this regard, the reduction in the number of MPs would not only meet the criteria of greater efficiency of the new Political Chamber, but would be a further brake and guarantee, avoiding the exorbitant disproportion between the numbers of the new Senate and the old Chamber where a single party, holder of the majority prize, could alone count more than three times the number of senators. If the Senate does not intervene in this regard, I hope that this can be done by my fellow Members at second reading, as a sense of political responsibility and style in behavior would require them to do so. But that's not all I want to talk about. With my speech, I would like to put on the record a double inconvenience that has accompanied these months of parliamentary work. The first concerned the way in which the Italian communication system (press and TV) told this process of constitutional reform. Aldo Moro, in his memorial written during his imprisonment in the spring of 1978, recalled: The Italian press is a huge problem in terms of both its order and development and its independence. He added that the country is so dominated by five or six warheads. These days have shown how easy it is to close the opinion market. Not only will you not find opinions, but no news. Perhaps this is a particular aspect of an economic crisis, which cannot but be an editorial crisis. In fact, out of 20-25 serious newspapers it is difficult to block; out of 5 or 6 it is. Since then more than thirty-five years have passed, and in these months I have happened several times to think about the words of Moro and the connection that there is and that we are living between the current economic crisis, which naturally involves also the main national publishing groups (which still count on the tip of the fingers of a hand), and the availability that they have demonstrated, subject of course the due exceptions, to transform themselves into mere megaphones of the Government, or narrators of presumed retroscena in which the news and its analysis disappear, with the only objective of feeding in their place a deterior tale of the Italian public life. All too often the press and TV have assumed, without mediation and even with an excess of complacency, a narrative frame in which those who have ideas other than those of the majority and on a crucial theme for the democracy of a country, such as the organization of its parliamentary system, are not legitimated to express and respected as such, but are accused in front of the public opinion of being an owl, therefore a menagram, a saboteur, a frondist or, worse, moved by personal economic interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buemi.]] That this behavior can be part of the miseries and even of the vulgarity of the political struggle, especially the one in the new times, is there, and it is not surprising to me; what surprised me was the fact that, supinarily, both the press and the TV have consented to this kind of narrative. This, I confess, reminded me of a willingness to relive as an automatism the darkest periods of the country's history and the relations between propaganda and power, which I would have preferred not to, bitterly, observe. To increase the penalty was to have to take note daily that most of the time this has happened by young journalists, professionally weakened by the evident proletarianization suffered in recent years by the profession. In short, never as in these months, I have realized how twenty years of economic and cultural hegemony of Berlusconism on Italian communication, a direct master grip or an indirect influence, but still conditioning, have not passed in vain and, indeed, have formed a transversal dress from right to left that, in moments like this, has been worn with an excess of vezzosa ease and superficiality from a large part of the national communicative system. A second limit, President, is also to be found in the administration of the Senate. The reform process took place without the institution's ability to exploit it symbolically, ritually and communicatively. This would have meant identifying a special room to hold the meetings of the 1st Commission dedicated to the subject; setting up a closed circuit, video and audio, to give the right publicity to the work and debates; giving the press dedicated spaces, without forcing, for whole days, those journalists to bivouac in the corridors in front of the Commission; identifying an institutional spokesman of the rapporteurs of the measure - we have counted too much and we have relied on their exquisite experience and political and professional capacity, and this applies to both - that it should only communicate the reform of the Senate to the outside world. We are doing something great and important, very rare in the history of the Western Parliaments, that only the time before us will be able to judge in its seriousness and foresight; yet we have succeeded in the undertaking, in terms of procedures and, even, of sloppiness, in discussing a constitutional reform in the same ordinary way that the Commission discusses the legitimacy of a law concerning the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada. I hope the House of Deputies does not make the same mistakes. But, if I have to identify a difference of institutional meaning between us and other countries of very old or new democracy, it is precisely in this inability to create rites, symbols, meaning of the institution and rather in the incomparable capacity, proper to the Italian ruling classes themselves, to produce in an autonomous way a feeling of anti-political and institutional disaffection among citizens, who then undertake to ride. This discourse - and I conclude - also applies to the modalities and timing of the organization of these works. Yet it would not take long to understand that, at an age when communication is immediate and viral, the image of an empty Chamber while a general debate is taking place is already in itself a manifesto of impotence, disinterest and short-sightedness. Nor do I want to silence the gloominess of some interventions, not all, of the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I am thinking of the screams of Senator Taverna or the words of Senator Cioffi, who did not hesitate to publicly offend a Minister of the Republic, among the general indifference, accusing her of reading other people's texts. They have been humiliating passages for those who have spoken them, who have made me ashamed - I tell you clearly - to share with you the same parliamentary screech. Shame - be it clear - first as a citizen and then as a senator. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u37	Quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u38	[[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Senator Santangelo, when he asks for the floor, he will speak. Mr Gotor (PD). Finally, I would like to mention the unavoidable need to change the electoral law of Italicum to qualifying points as it came out of the Chamber of Deputies last month. Then we didn't know that the Senate of the Autonomies, as it should be, would be second degree. This being so, however, it is not possible for the House to be made up of nominations, because this would make the relationship between representatives and representatives ever more evanescent and irresponsible, feeding an oligarchical drift of democracy, already being consolidated in other Western countries. We will think about the methods (double gender preference, uninomial college or a mixed system), but we will need to reconnect the threads of the relationship between citizens and institutions, in the spirit that has animated and animated this reform of the Senate as well. This is the commitment that we make publicly to vote convincingly on this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u39	Senator Santangelo, do not intervene unless you have a title. We must give everyone the opportunity to express their opinion in this House, and I will guarantee this right. Shut up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u40	SANTANGELO (M5S). But the others talk, it's not just me. She only hears me, as usual: feel the others as well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u41	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with this reform - of which we highlight in a very negative way the great haste in implementing it - the Renzi Government is pursuing anti-democratic and non-representative choices, which the citizens will unfortunately understand only when they do not vote, when they are denied democratic participation. The same same process has been carried out with the so much flagrant and equally non-existent savings - the Court of Auditors has put it on blank - contained in the Delrio law, for a chaotic and inefficient suppression of the Provinces. And then I would start from this fake cut, to get to the point. The World Heritage Committee, on June 26, 2009, officially included the Dolomites on the UNESCO World Heritage List, thanks to their beauty and unique landscape and their scientific importance at a geological and geomorphological level. The nine mountain systems include a series of unique mountain landscapes and exceptional natural beauty; sublime and monumental places. The decision on the candidacy submitted by the Italian State was taken unanimously by the 21 members of the UNESCO commission, meeting in Seville (I repeat: 21 members, unanimously). We can only say that this prestigious recognition has been the result of a constant commitment, which has been going on for years and has always been led and coordinated by the Province of Belluno, which boasts 75 percent of the Dolomite groups. A more than deserved result, but certainly not taken for granted, which represents a milestone for the development of all the territory in which are located such landscape beauties. That territory is my territory, Mr President. The Dolomites, in fact, represent one of the main monumental naturalistic sites of our country, not only for the peaks that tell millions of years of evolution of our planet, but also for what surrounds them. It is obvious that the Dolomites, as a UNESCO heritage site, will become more and more an important attraction, entering the circuit of conscious and sustainable tourism (among other words that the left likes very much). The Province of Belluno will therefore be called to implement sustainable and sustainable development policies, in which to relaunch and strengthen the relationship between environment, economy and society. At the time when it was necessary to decide to which of the Provinces concerned to entrust the registered office of the new Foundation called the UNESCO Dolomites, the choice was oriented on the Province of Belluno, considering the primary role that the local body has exercised as promoter and coordinator of the works that have allowed the Dolomites the qualification of universal heritage of humanity. The Province of Belluno, now reduced by you to a second grade body, consists of 67 municipalities, with a population of about 210,000 inhabitants, of which 58,000 belong to groups of linguistic minorities of the Ladin and Sappadina area (just named by the senator who preceded me) but it develops on a territory of 3,600 square kilometers entirely mountain and cross-border. I repeat, so that we can all remember this concept: it is an entirely mountainous and cross-border territory. In fact, the new Statute of the Veneto Region, finally approved with regional statutory law in 2012, recognizes, in article 15, paragraph 5, particular conditions and forms of administrative, regulatory and financial autonomy. Only with the election renewal of the provincial body, however, could all this be implemented, i.e. to the particular forms and conditions of autonomy, now recognized directly also by the Veneto Region. It is therefore necessary to remember that the Province of Belluno, although having renewed its elective organs in the electoral consultations of June 2009, was dissolved, on proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, by decree of the President of the Republic, following the motion of distrust against the President of the Province of Belluno. As a result, of course, an extraordinary commissioner for the provisional management of the institution has been appointed, to whom the powers of the Provincial Council, the Junta and the President have been conferred until the establishment of the ordinary bodies, in accordance with the law of the Court of Justice, as the act in question states. This is the first act of non-democracy. Under normal conditions the Province should have been renewed, in its fundamental elective bodies, in a period between 15 April and 15 June 2012. To date, the Province has been a commissioner since 13 December 2011, with all the damage and consequences that this has caused for the territory of Belluno. The various legislative interventions that have followed throughout the 16th legislature have in fact frozen the commissioner's administration of the Province of Belluno, not allowing the elections to take place, which were scheduled in spring 2012. Therefore, for over two years the citizens of the Province of Belluno no longer have a political representation bearing their interests in all institutional fora, but they are represented by a Commissioner, obviously not elected - but probably, at this time, it is fashionable not to be elected, but only appointed - who does not respond to his own choices to voters but to the Minister of the Interior. All this has led to a serious vulnus to the democratic system and to the right of active electorate, which is a cornerstone of our Constitution. After the approval of the Delrio scam reform, told to citizens as the panacea of all evils, the Province will become a second-level body, without more guarantee of a political guide truly direct expression of the popular will. Delrio is a reform that defines centralist is a euphemism, but in this you are magicians, with a centralized government, federalist only in words and Millantator, who takes advantage of this economic crisis, which he absolutely does not know how to cope with, and uses it as a screen for hasty reforms. The Renzi Government has done nothing but to fuse the reform of local territorial authorities implemented by the fascist regime, precisely in order to distort the peculiarities, bringing back control under the aegis of Rome. The Provinces, second-level bodies, have a single established saving, linked to the gratuitousness of the political bodies. As anticipated, the Court of Auditors has highlighted the total absence of savings - in the face of obvious disservices, I add - in particular for the areas entirely mountain and not easy to manage, such as Bellunese, in which it is difficult to live and from which one still claims to be sedentary, but to which the resources and the peculiarity of the territory, therefore the costs of living, are not recognized. If it is true, in fact, that, on the one hand, the text of the Delrio law provides for a reference to the mountain provinces, on the other hand, at the same time, there is no specification as to how these territories should be protected for their particularity, and above all there is no mention of the additional resources to be allocated to them. Things must not only be done, but must also be done well, which is difficult (or better, impossible) for this Government: we will see it shortly, gentlemen, when the fake savings and the fake cuts come out. Then it will be pains for everyone, for the citizens and for this country that is suffering for an economy that has really led to the bottom. In the meantime, however, you talk only about reforms, without thinking about what the country is asking at this time, namely a salary, a job and the security to arrive at the end of the month, in addition to the revival of the economy in the context of a European and possibly world system, in which, however, Italy currently counts very little. To return to the topic of my speech, talk about mountain provinces and, at the same time, indicate the invariance of expenditure is a trick that will soon be exposed: let us remember in fact that in the Delrio reform a fundamental step is constituted precisely by the invariance of expenditure, so we cannot understand how we can give more skills and responsibility to resources that are not only the same, but even in the last decrees have been cut and reduced (think of the IRPEF decree: 80 euros have cost dear to this country and to you, instead, a vote that you will probably not be given anymore!). It is a shame that my fellow citizens have the right to know (act of honesty that your representatives have not yet had the courage to do on their territory). However, we are certain that the Delrio reform will be judged unconstitutional, and then at that time we will not only be forced to say: We told you this, but we will certainly ask for the damage: it is a promise and the North League will not take a step back on this. During the examination of the Delrio bill we conducted our battle without truce, insisting on the need to deal rationally with the reorganization of local territorial authorities, including the theme in the already planned constitutional reforms, entrusting directly to the regional competences the reorganization of new forms of association for the exercise of the functions of Government of wide area, and the relative abolition of all intermediate bodies. Today that constitutional reforms come to this House - and I must say that, although it emerges from almost all the voices of my fellow senators, in an almost univocal way, this port has been one of the most unhappy, we must sadly note that even on this occasion you have not been able, or rather you have not wanted, to stem the nefariousness introduced by the Delrio bill of which you are nevertheless well aware: to admit it, however, would be a defeat. It is better therefore only for the citizens you have teased, like those of the wholly mountainous Province of Belluno, to which still today is not given the recognition due. It is absurd - and I refer back to the premise made at the beginning of my speech - that the whole world recognizes the peculiarities of the Province of Belluno, but that the Government does not have the courage to write within the Constitution a special protection for this landscape heritage. Colleagues senators, we of the League promise that we will do everything to ensure that the mountain provinces are recognised in the Constitution, but we will go further: we will ask that these entirely mountain provinces be granted the same form of autonomy as the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, because autonomy and federalism are in our DNA. We are convinced, in fact, that a real reform of the State system is no longer procrastinable from a federalist perspective, the same one that frightens this Government, so much so as to make it take decisions in the opposite direction, to remove its presuppositions in order to return to a dominant central power, to bring back to the State competences such as energy, strategic infrastructures and large transport networks and to increase to 800,000 the necessary signatures for the achievement of the quorum in order to be able to hold a referendum and to 250,000 the necessary signatures in order to present a bill of popular initiative. This is your false participatory democracy. This is your non-democracy! We at the North League are convinced that territorial communities must be put in a position to develop autonomous action, even in the international context. A reform from a federalist perspective is therefore necessary, we are convinced - I repeat - not only to redesign the organization of the political system of our country, but above all to lay the foundations for a new Europe: a Europe of the Regions and peoples. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u43	Senator citizens, the bill we are going to examine is what we can call the bill of life, that is, a rarity. Such an intrusive and overwhelming reform of the Constitution is something that - fortunately - one sees very rarely; however, we would not have liked to see it. As a first point, I would like to say that we are talking about this very badly. The duet Renzi-Boschi - both absent - filled televisions and newspapers of his presence, saying everything except what this reform is. Shall we see what they said for a moment? They said, for example - it has been reported by a national newspaper such as the Republic - that these days the abolition of the Senate is being discussed. It's fake. But, then, why does the President of the Council, the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and the journalists together accept that this is what is being said? It's an easy question, but there's no answer. I am sorry that there is no Minister, but some journalists should ask this question, also because perhaps the time will come when journalists will no longer be able to ask these questions and then we will thank them for not having asked them, as happened in 1922. Even then someone stopped asking questions; after a year the Acerbo law was made and then we know how it ended. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It has also been said - another title appeared in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica", which is not the only one to write these things - that the abolition of the Senate - because it insists on the concept - will bring a savings of 500 million. This is also false: from the facts, we find that the millions are 43. We have a Senator Commissioner, who showed the figures, so you should tell these things to the Italians. Perhaps the Italians would say: "But why 43 million? With 43 million, what do you want to do? Nothing. Another thing that has been said is that there are constitutionalists who approve this reform. Which ones? There was not a journalist who asked this question: it is a simple, easy question. We ask what these constitutionalists are, because not one has been made in their name. Mrs. Boschi didn't make a name; Mr. Renzi didn't make a name. But the constitutionalists who are against this reform are there and their names are known to us, because they have exposed themselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is also an interesting profile, which should be deepened. Then I would like to throw another thought over there and do it because I feel like I am the people's mouth, eyes and ears at home and I would like all of us here to think that. I would like to ask the journalists: why do you allow this to happen? Why do you let the President of the Council throw mud on the people who are here in the Senate, saying they're lame, they're stuck in the chair and they're just thinking about their money? I didn't hear President Renzi cut his salary, so he thinks about the money, too. Paradoxically, then, even a striker should not do so because, by defending his job, he is in conflict with interests. Therefore, according to the President-in-Office of the Council, we should not say anything, because we are defending our place: the logical consequence is therefore that no one should strike. Why doesn't anyone tell him that? I would also like to address you, colleagues in the Democratic Party: why do you not point this out to him, since he is your President and is your majority, not ours? Having said that, I would like to begin to examine in detail this blessed constitutional bill, but first I want to tell you something else. We have been here for 15 months and you have seen how we act: we do not say no to party taken, we say no when we have to say no and yes when we have to say yes, so much so that we have said yes to almost 70% of the times we have been called to vote. The other times we have said no, while the Democratic Party has said no 75% of the time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So we're not the party of the no, because we're not even a party, but you are. Let's pay attention to that, too. Now let's get to the bottom of it. I have already made this speech in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I repeat it. In the illustration of this bill there are the reasons why the proposer, the Government, would like to make this reform. That's seven points I'm going to read. The first point is that the Executives are weak in the implementation of the programme. The first question is: which program? The majority or the executive? Because the Commission should be, as the word says, the performer of the majority programme and should do nothing but follow a drawn task. The majority programme shall apply and be implemented. It is simple but, apparently, this is not the case because all the statements made during the election campaign have been punctually ignored. For example, the PD had said it was in favour of renewables and then, in Decree-Law No. 91 of 2014 you did the opposite, killing photovoltaics. It's a very slight contradiction. However, if the Executive is weak in the implementation of the program it is not the fault of the Senate or the House, but it is the responsibility of the Executive. The second point is that legislative procedures are slow and cumbersome. But whose fault is it? Think about it: we are about to see the fifth decree saves Ilva, which corrects the fourth, which in turn corrected the third, the second and the first. So, if there's a junkiness, it's because the government isn't capable of making laws. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, the Government is in full conflict of interest, because the laws or you do them or by their execution. If you are the Executive, let them be executed and let the laws be made by someone else, that is Parliament, who is the holder of the legislative power. This second point also goes against the Government and, therefore, the Government, in these first two points, is saying: I am not doing well. In the third point, the proposer, Mr Renzi, says that too many decrees are made. But the decrees are made by the government, and so the answer is: it did less. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The fourth point underlines that the decrees are heterogeneous. But the decrees are always made by the government and therefore the answer is: don't make them heterogeneous. They make a lot of different ones. It's not hard. The fifth point concerns the practice of the question of trust and the maxi amendment. But it is still the Government that raises the question of trust and that makes the maxims. The answer is, don't do it anymore. The sixth point is that there are too many laws and that, too often, they are unstable and confused. This is how we return to what I said earlier. The government is not able to do the laws well, because it has this legislative anxiety to do so many. He did less, and he would avoid this situation. Once again, it's the government's fault. The seventh point is that there is conflict between different levels of government. This is certainly the case, and this is the result of a reform of the 2000 Constitution made by the Government, which has confused the maps between local authorities and central power. In this way, there have been many conflicts of attribution. Seven out of seven points therefore say that if something goes wrong in this Republic it is the way in which the Commission does things. It's interesting. So the Senate and Title V have nothing to do with it. This reform could be done by responding to the proposer's questions in zero time. It would be enough for the proposer to stop doing what he shouldn't do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Within a few minutes we dismantled all the premises of this bill. However, some other considerations must be made, which I have partly done before. There is a collision between what is said here and what is said outside. Mr Renzi and Mrs Boschi go around saying things that are not true: that we are brakes, and that we are also defeatists. And it's bad to hear these words almost a century later. The term defeatism was used in other times to denigrate the opponent and silence him. But on the other side someone was screaming, "Communists!" Don't you remember? It was a way to silence people. And you, who for so long have denigrated that character, have now taken its attitudes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Basically, he's still here. It's a shadow floating in here, and it's really bad. On the way back to history, I reminded you of what happened before the adoption of the Acerbo law. More or less, what happened today took place. There were so-called imbeciles governments, who were unable to do things. There was conflict between the levels of government and Parliament, and the parties quarreled with each other. Therefore, someone after the 1921 elections, in which he had received very few votes (1 percent), began to say that more power was needed; so, in the silence and complicity of the institutions and the media, this person had a law (the Acerbo law) passed that gave, to those who took 25% of the votes, about 66 percent of the seats. It's not that different from what we want to do now. Once again, governability is called for; once again, we must not play with words: you confuse governability with stability of the Executive. Orwell called it the "neolingua" - a way to use different words to try to confuse people. The stability of the Executive is the ability of the Executive to remain in its place if it is faithful to its programme, which is that of the majority. In the event of a conflict between the Government and Parliament, who must leave, in a parliamentary Republic? The government, not Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Commission is therefore stable when it implements the majority programme. This means stability of the Executive. Governance means that the Executive is immovable, tied to two lines with the majority who support it: I'm leaving, you're leaving too. The majority, therefore, end up being blackmailed, because the Commission rightly drags everyone with it. We speak of the first Republic as the source of all horrors; I would like you to reflect on two things. Imagine if we had a majority electoral law: we would have had the DC in the government for forty years. Can you imagine? Imagine if there hadn't been any party, like the Liberal Party or the Republican Party, who sometimes said "I'm not in it" and dropped the government in front of some cowage he wanted to make. This is a scenario. Yet in those days the executives fell but the legislatures lasted, Parliament was the sovereign, as it should be. In the event of a conflict, the government went away, ensuring that no one could take over for five years. Imagine if Mr Berlusconi had been in those 40 years, with whom you are now making reforms, by the way. We would have passed the Alfano praise - indeed, Alfano reads, because praise would be a shared thing; even in this case you have mystified the words - and the Schifani law. And perhaps, with the help of this reform that you want to make pass, the Constitutional Court and the President of the Republic would have said that they were good and we would have had them forever, until there had been such a substantial majority to remove them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You want all this? The question remains that. I would like to continue by breaking up some lies - let's call them that - that are said by Mr. Renzi. I'm talking about your government, not you, because I hope you have something that beats in your chest and that you hear these things. We, in fact, are representatives of the nation - let us all remember - of all the citizens, we are not representatives of the armchair we are dealing with. The first dance is that Parliament must not be an obstacle to the government. That's what Mr. Renzi said. I already have the skin that's gotten up an inch. Is Parliament an obstacle? These things I have heard only in totalitarian regimes, not even in authoritarian ones. The second dance: the European Union has asked us to make reforms. It is a half-truth: we could call it, in the new language, a voluntary campaign of misinformation, instead of a lie. The European Union, in fact, told us to make reforms, but not these: it told us to make economic and labour market reforms. But we hurt those, too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let us now also make some political considerations. This reform is very disturbingly similar to that of 2006 and, indeed, all the speeches I have heard in this House are pushing more and more in that direction. I believe: who wanted the 2006 reform? Mr Berlusconi, with whom you are making reforms. So nothing has changed, absolutely nothing. Even the famous supremacy clause, which no one here liked, appears exactly the same way. It was called a supremacy clause even then: at least change his name. Be patient. Give him another name. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'd like to talk about the deal you made with Uncle Silvio. When we talked about this, in fact, someone was shaking their heads, saying: no, we did not promise anything. Let's think, let's think together. In this pact Mr Berlusconi gives everything: he gives you an electoral law with which he does not go to the government, because the numbers are those, and a reform of the institutional structure in which the winner takes everything; in return he takes nothing. What kind of negotiations would that be? Do you think that that person, who has arrived where she has arrived, has this negotiating ability, to sit at a table and say: I give you everything and I don't take anything? No. It means something's going on, but we don't know him. Doesn't mean he's not here. You always have to remember that famous saying that they say on Wall Street to who you think you're doing the money: If you look around and don't see any chicken, you're the chicken. Well, if we look around and we don't see chickens, it means we're the chickens. That too must be said. Let's talk about immunity, but just to remember what's going on these days. A warranty notice came to Maroni, president of the Lombardy Region, who could be here and thus enjoy immunity. Well, I want to remember Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour, who received for free two fish, caught in the Cavour channel, the one bearing his name, and since it is a state-owned canal, owned by the State, everything inside is owned by the State. You know what he did? He returned them, because it was not appropriate for a Kingdom minister to pay tribute to something that was owned by the community. We're talking about two river fish. Now, instead, we are talking about people who are being sent back to trial, investigated, like the regional councillors of Piedmont: four sentenced and 24 sentenced to trial; it is normal, more than 50%. These people could be here, and we also want to equip them with a shield. Why, on the other hand, are councilmen who do not come to the Senate given no shield? It seems rather unconstitutional to me, too, and we should think about it. I'd like to say one more thing. When we talk about these subjects, we always use the neo-language, which I use even if it gives me a lot of annoyance: "authoritarian derivatives," "slip towards totalitarianism or authoritarianism," "authoritarian democracy" are really bad expressions, but we save the concept. Beware that when we talk about this, we do not mean that a dictatorship must come with the real baton, because that is over, it belongs to the past, as there are no more wars, indeed paleoguerres, as the historians call them, but there are neoguerres, who fight cleanly, staying at home and pressing a button to start a drone, an intelligent bomb or a missile launched by a silos in Minot, North Dakota, at 15,000 kilometers, hitting a target in Russia or China. This is how it happens, pushing harmless buttons. What we must think of is a new, light dictatorship, in which the democratic skeleton remains because this is the key: to maintain the democratic skeleton. With this reform project, we have a perfect line of command. The centre is the President of the Council, and it is here that this reform is the same as that of 2006, which focused everything on the President of the Council, but it does so in a different way, putting together the two things: the President of the Council appoints, with only nine senators, his President of the Republic, conditions the Constitutional Court and Parliament is his slave (so he made a perfect line of command) because there is a majority electoral law. Formally, there remains the democratic system, which requires a Parliament, an election and the guarantee bodies. But do you remember Argentina from the '70s? It was a military dictatorship and yet Parliament was there and elections were held. Go see the footage. They were called the Altamanos, those who were in Parliament, because they always voted in this way. Then what I'm asking is if we want to be altamanos, too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] During Fascism there was Parliament, it was called the Chamber of Fascists and Corporations; in the Soviet Union there was Parliament and there was also a Constitution, which was not even so bad, indeed our Constitution changed in this way could become even worse. Some might also invent to add Article 58-14 of the Soviet Union penal code to the penal code, you might as well be there, read what it said, and you will see that it is consistent with the reform system that you want to implement. Even in China, elections are held and do not tell me that China is not an authoritarian regime; even in North Korea, elections are held and there is a Parliament, so you understand that preserving the skeleton does not mean preserving democracy, or rather the trick is that. The trick is to keep the appearance and empty the contents. In fact, the Senate is maintained, so that we do not have to say that there is only one House instead of two. So it's maintained, but it's no use. So the citizen at home says the reform was done. By talking about costs, if you want to intervene on costs, do it. If one thing costs too much, throw it away and buy one that costs less? If your car consumes too much because you always go to maximum, what do you do? Do you throw it away or go a little faster? If, therefore, the problem is that of costs, we are intervening on those. How? For example, it is enough to intervene by cutting the allowance by half. Do not tell me that there is not much left, because according to the accounts they speak of 14,000 euros net, if only half the allowances remain 11,500 and I hope that none of you have the courage to say that 11,500 euros are few, or at least if you have the courage to do so go and say it out of here and we will see what people answer. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I still have a few seconds left, and I'd just like to make two jokes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u44	You still have a minute and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u45	MARTELLI (M5S). Thank you. After 100 years of democracy in the United States, someone said: If voting made a difference, they wouldn't let us do it. Apparently, someone had seen us long. Someone else, however, just a little later, said (and this is for the Government, even if the Minister is never present, but for me it is as if there were) that you can make fun of a few people for a long time or many people for a short time, but you cannot deceive so many people for a long time. This is what Abraham Lincoln said. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, taking the floor on this issue is making me relive the same emotion as eight years ago, when I first spoke in this House, because we are talking about the Constitution. I must confess that often in recent years - I am not talking about the last few months - I hoped that we would not have to put our hands on the Constitution; instead, we are now confronted with this issue. During the general discussion, I tried to make an effort to get out of the concept of typho-series. In fact, this is a debate that we should not listen to like the other general discussions; we should have the ability and make the effort to listen to the things that are said and not to evaluate the Group to which we belong. I am among those who are very often irritated by my colleagues in the M5S Group (as they know, for the gestures we are making), but in this general discussion I tried to listen to what they said and not to which Group they belong. This applies to everyone, because if we are not able to listen to and show some intellectual honesty in this debate, I think we really should not have put our hands on the Constitution. Not to mention the Senators of the M5S Group, I would point out that my colleague Mr Moscardelli said that he had heard insults rather than proposals and that some people are opposed to any change. So, I don't quite understand what that means. I read the title of the measure in question: Draft Constitutional Law. Provisions for overcoming the bicameralism of equality, and I agree - the reduction in the number of Members, and I agree - the containment of the operating costs of the institutions. I agree with that too, and yet I am part of the heretics that are not recognised in the Commission's text. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] So, someone doesn't tell it right or all. I am not going to vote in favour of the draft law approved in the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX groups]] I have tabled amendments with other colleagues: if some of these amending proposals, which I consider to be fundamental, are adopted, I will be able to change my position; otherwise I will not vote in favour of them even in the final vote. I heard about blackmail, but no one blackmailed me, and I'm not blackmailable. I express my opinion as Senator of the Republic. However, I have heard too many commonplaces in this general debate, and I would like to take up some of them again: the European Union is asking us to reform. As you know, I am from the foreign college and I live in Europe. I often meet fellow MEPs from other European countries, as well as very often I meet ambassadors from these countries. For a few months I have been trying to answer a question that I have not been able to answer: what are you doing with the Senate? Nobody asks us to reform our democratic system. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]] I didn't find a politician in Europe who said that. The election campaign for the European elections was not in Italy, but for the European Socialist Party in Europe: in Belgium, France and Germany. And the question I was asked was always the following: what are you doing? If no one asks for this, I would like to remind you that someone has asked for something worrying. In 2013, JP Morgan picked up a little thing. JP Morgan, whom we know well because he is at the origin of this economic crisis of ours, did not just criticize the European anti-fascist constitutions, but also - I quote the textual words - the right to protest when changes are made to the status quo. This is unacceptable to these people, and it is they who are asking us to change the institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]] I don't know that JP Morgan is a democratic institution. Other clichés: we are the only country in the world with a perfect bicameral system. My colleague Panizza delle Autonomie, if I remember correctly, is from a territory that borders Switzerland. Well, Switzerland has a perfect bicameral system. Switzerland is a small country with eight million inhabitants, but when you make a law for a country of eight million inhabitants or for a country of 60 million more or less the job is the same. I do not understand that Switzerland is a country that is crippled, in disarray of democracy, that does not work or that is in a deep economic crisis. We're talking about France. In France our parliamentary colleagues often have the title of député maire and sénateur maire of various positions, but they will no longer be able to have it since the next elections. This law has already done so, and in France the next elections will ban the accumulation of posts. In France there is a debate to overcome the Senate of election of second degree. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]] This is the reality of the facts, not that of the clichés that we tell ourselves. Let us take the example of the Bundesrat in Germany. Germany has another story than ours. There we are talking about the governments of the Länder which - I want to exaggerate, but of all the exaggerations I have heard, I will be given one - are almost independent states that have decided to be together. And it is the governments of these states that make the Bundesrat. But in Germany, if you talk to German parliamentarians or the governors of the German Länder, they will explain to you that 60-70 percent of the laws are made in perfect bicameralism every year. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That of the United States is the closest example that the Government has put on the table, very close to a Senate system that the United States itself passed in 1913, i.e. 101 years ago, because they were about to fall back into a second civil war. The system does not work, and not because they are bad, but because they do different trades: an account is being President of a Region and an account is being Senator of a Region. In Switzerland they have two senators per canton. The Constitution allows these cantons, if they wish, that one of the two senators may also be a member of the Cantonal Government. However, no one has used this rule in Switzerland for decades. That's because they're different trades. This applies above all to a country like ours which has a fundamental problem, which is the total absence of the sense of belonging to a national community. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is our real underlying problem: we are not able to live together because we have no sense of belonging to a community. We want to put representatives of legitimate interests in the Senate, but they are those of the government of the territory. All federal states have a bicameral system, perfect or imperfect, otherwise they don't work (I forgot to mention Australia as an example: go ask if the Australian Senate doesn't have the power to block the government if the government goes off the road) and the Senate serves to ensure national cohesion. I want to give an example: if Roberto Calderoli is President of my Region and I am a senator of his Region, if he comes to me and asks me to take home 100 from the Senate, I will come to the Senate and bring home what I can because my job will be to find the square of the interest of national cohesion, so I will go to Roberto and tell him that I have brought home 50: I will take a scolding but this is the value, the cost of national cohesion. We are told that this is the first reading. It may be the first (it is technically) but I am afraid that it is the fourth reading that we are doing, because, even under our Rules of Procedure, when the measure comes back here for our second reading we will only be able to intervene on any changes made by the House because on other points we will no longer be able to do so. Well, I doubt that there will be any changes in the House, beyond what the experts tell us (the rapporteurs themselves talk about problems to be corrected). Why do I have these doubts? Because the main shareholder of this agreement - they say to those who want to hear them - says he wants to bring home the Italicum; on the other hand, the other main shareholder says that the Italicum will change it. I'm sorry, I'm not a constitutionalist and I've never understood much about politics, but it seems hard for these two things to be together. So, what's the price? Is Italicum (and therefore for Italicum one party will vote for any kind of constitutional reform) or change Italicum and no longer vote for constitutional reforms? Who doesn't want to bring home the result? Who is proposing some amendments that aim to keep a Senate alive, to reduce it to 100 members, to reduce only the number of Members but to maintain a Senate that guarantees national cohesion and, above all, gives the citizen the floor? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] From reading the Commission's text I give you two photographs: the first is the answer to anti-politics, to the distance between representation and the citizen. I would say, a nice answer we give to Italicum: a law with blocked lists (Senator Calderoli is right when he says that we still resent him while we are doing the same thing again). Therefore, there is the power of a party secretary who will decide who will go to the Chamber of Deputies while, as far as the Senate is concerned, we tell the citizens that once they have elected their mayor and their regional councillor their task is over: we take care of them. It seems to me that the caste, which had the main walls of its demolished castle, fell, locked itself in the castle tower: this is the image that I see from this drawing; you can tell me what you want. This is the reality of the facts: We are saying to the citizens: 'vote for three things and we will take care of the rest.' [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Candiani and Mussini]] The other image - I am sorry and it hurts me to say it - is that the result of this plan is only the concept of a man in command. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Candiani and Mussini.]] I'm sorry, but there's no other reading possible. Then I would like to say to my friends in my Group that when we reform the Constitution and the institutions we have to do so thinking that we will lose in the next elections. A system must be developed to ensure that my institutions operate as an opposition, not as a majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] Majorities come and go and it is good that it is so because no one has the truth in his pocket; neither do I. But here I express my thoughts as a senator of the Italian Republic and a member of the Democratic Party who will not vote for this reform unless some amendments are adopted. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u48	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u49	Mr President, I will certainly repeat a few concepts, but together with a few other braves we are desperately trying to brainwash the members of the government. Let us start from the fact that in Europe we are the first in corruption, which is not a purely ethical and moral issue because every public work costs citizens' pockets as much as 45% more and because, together with the cumbersomeness, the lack of seriousness and the bureaucracy, it makes foreign investors run away. Perhaps the Premier forgets to say on television or to put on his slides that foreign investors for as much as 35% have lost them because of our bad reputation. We are second only to Greece for the amount of public debt and with Greece we share the lack of a minimum income of citizenship. We are among the first for tax pressure on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and among the last in services to these. The conflict of interests is freely the master, but the young and very fast Renzi is concerned to occupy the Chambers to upset the Constitution and finally to pin the medal of the great reformer to the chest. Unfortunately, Italy is already the victim of your reforms, those born to soften the processes of your ally Berlusconi, such as the decriminalization of the false in the budget, the shortening of the limitation periods, which want to seriously weaken the work of the judiciary. Italy is also the victim of your negligence for not having yet passed an effective law against the conflict of interest. We, however, have the very serious problem of information. We are in the 49th place in the ranking of freedom of the press and, therefore, the idea has spread that Italians wait for nothing more than this change. This attempt at plagiarism is to the detriment of the Italians because we are told that Europe is asking us for these reforms. In fact, Europe is calling for much more reforms, namely justice, taxation, public administration and labour. It is not said that if we were serious, Europe would have given us an investment clause that would have been worth as much as 8 billion, but the negligence, ineffectiveness and inefficiency of the Government and the Democratic Party made us miserably lose. By the way, we have this huge need to set up yet another caste of nominees, which must be clearly immune, given the precedents of all administrators. It comes first of all and to do this one goes on television and in talks to say that the Movement does not want to reduce the costs of politics. Maybe use the negative meaning of the accusation that you have been proclaiming for the last year and a half at the expense of the Movement: "Do the populists!" In fact, for the last year and a half we could have reduced the costs of politics if you only wanted to cut the allowance by half, reimburse the list fees and seriously abolish public funding to parties. Only that costs us 91 million euros a year. We saw when the young Renzi went there to say that the stamps would not be paid anymore, but since 2016 not immediately because for Europeans you have still used them: tell the Italians! Since we told the Italians that we have to do the spending review, I think we should start. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am interested now to mention a research that Mr Cappelletti has done in a few minutes: he saw that in this year and a half the 5 Star Movement voted yes for 64 percent of the 4,500 votes, against 72 percent of the Democratic Party's no; if there had been those yess to really lower the costs of politics, we would not have needed to empty the citizens of their sacred rights. But that cannot be done. That's right. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Yesterday morning it was rather depressing for me to listen to the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, when, in order to justify the increase of signatures for the popular law initiative, she said she had to respond to "a need that comes from the basis of more participatory democracy." I remember a five-fold increase in the demand for signatures. The rapporteur then said that there will be certain times for the debate. It would, however, be appropriate to say on television that you did not want to put this in the Constitution because it will be the subject of regulations, it will be another implementing rule among those sleeping in the drawers of the so effective governments of the center-left. This too will probably remain, unfortunately, dead letter. There have been 220 amendments of the 5 Star Movement and no approval. You closed your eyes to what, however, despite the result you had to the Europeans - and it is important to remember that it was the same one that gave the loser Veltroni [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You said no to the second political force 220 times. This is because the only shield you have against us is to go crying on the talk shows, on television, on the news or, as the colleague has just done, saying that the Movement always says no, does nothing, only protests and not proposals. You should already be bored to always hear the usual things. However, despite what you may think, we are not discouraged at all. We'll try harder and harder and we'll let you know more and more out, capillatively, stubbornly and stubbornly what you do in here. Soon there will come a law of stability tears and blood; you know it, even if you do not have the courage to say it. It already takes the first 20 billion to avoid the broken bank, 20 billion to avoid that safeguard clause that will come in January, it needs money for the Cassa Integrazione and for missions abroad. But you don't say you don't know what fish to catch. Just as you do not say that the young Renzi pretended before the Italian televisions to beat fists in Europe; in reality he did not get even the flexibility that is already in the treaties. He boasted, saying we'll have investments out of three percent. However, a German told him: "Beautiful, there are no good or bad expenses. Adjusted. Well, there the young Renzi probably turns, but as soon as he meets an Italian television or runs (which is better) to "Porta a Porta" and arrives in Italy he says he has done everything. We'll see, there's only a few months left. We will be able to let the Italians know that it is you who always say no to the income of citizenship because poverty must remain a thread, the electoral slavery, the one that gives you consent in the administrations. It's the only form you have to maintain; if you can make Italians free, you wouldn't have that 40 percent and you know it well. We will be able to say that it was you who said no to the abolition of the IRAP for small and medium-sized enterprises; other than we do not want reforms. We want all those reforms that are direct and verifiable immediately in favour of the citizens immediately because citizens - as we have said - do not chase the government to see themselves pseudoabolished the Provinces and the Senate; they do not care about this. And when we talk about the effectiveness and efficiency of governments, Renzi and all those who often go on television to reach the general public do not say, that the real problem lies in the implementing decrees, Renzi had promised that he would resolve the precedent, as he did with the debts of the public administration, when instead he is not resolving neither the precedent nor the one that still accumulates. Today's Executive since its inauguration, therefore since 22 February, has already accumulated 133 decrees still to be enacted. Among the many measures, those on TASI, on the abolition of the Provinces, on work, on the Expo of Milan, must be implemented until the bonus of 80 euros, which is not structural and which we will not take forever, and the extension of the commissioners for public works. It is, in short, the entire activity of government, the effective Government of the Democratic Party, to which I honestly do not believe that Parliament has been an obstacle, but the negligence and the fact that the announcements should be followed by action and by doing what you accuse the Movement of. We tell you this and we have told you several times: take our bill that is done well; copy it, paste it, sign it, that we both sign it and, if I am in favour of the citizens, we will vote for it. We have no issues of pride in this respect. But unfortunately we in this period are doing nothing but occupy the attention with this extraordinary pact with Berlusconi that cannot be betrayed; a pact with a condemned and with a multi-inquisition, to the honors of the chronicle until this morning. Among the heads of attribution there is even the scam against the state and the association to criminals. We have said it over and over again that it is a shameful thing. But I wonder where are the intellectuals, the perbenists, the leftist moralists, those who are scandalized - pardon me, Mr President - for a "fuck you" in the square of Beppe Grillo, for a show of a comedian who also makes politics and who says he wants to vivisect Dudu. Where are these perbenists, who make deals with this riffraff? How do you get your heads up and out of here? We would never be able to do that; that's for sure. That is why we are proud, and that is why we will never stop informing citizens because we can do so freely. We can go around and tell them what you're doing. And sooner or later - they will be missing yes and no a couple of months to awaken the citizens from the great fog in which you have immersed them with communication, which you have chosen, exactly as the ally Berlusconi did twenty years ago - your promises will fade and tears and blood will cry out revenge. The poverty and misery to which you are reducing the Italian people, who no longer have dignity, will cry out for revenge. You can't die taking a walk, going to school and when it rains. And you think about reforming yourself so that you "sleep" even more comfortably. We will repeat it until death: nothing is being abolished, just creating another circle of another caste. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u50	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to point out that in my speech I put aside any instrumental considerations on this revision of the Constitution that we are examining. I therefore intend to avoid and I would like everyone in this assembly to do so more or less daringly, both by those who are opposed to this revision of the Constitution and by those who are in favour of it. I therefore do not marry the thesis of those who regard those who are opposed to these interventions on the Constitution as a nostalgic pastist of the first Republic and its parliamentary rites. We also clear the field from supposed corporate defenses by the senators pervicaciously attacked to the cadrega, as they say from my side, or glued to the senatorial armchair and its allowances. None of that. A desire for constitutional revision other than the one presented here has dignity and does not imply any bad will or strenuous desire to leave things unchanged. Constitutional revision is necessary and needs to be continued. In the same way, however, I do not share the excessive accusations of possible authoritarian drifts that would result from this revision of the Constitution, albeit so profound. Rather, the aim is to strengthen the executive power by simplifying and speeding up the parliamentary process. Such a reinforced government would no longer have any alibi in its action and could be judged more consciously by the citizens at the time of the vote. I believe that Italy has already - and for some time - the political maturity for this evolution. I therefore like it and, above all, I believe it is right to remain strictly on what this text provides and on what it intended to achieve, it can actually be reasonably achieved. In order to resume the objectives of this constitutional revision, I take as a reference what the Government presented last March 31 with a series of slides. It is a way of expressing concepts in a synthetic way and in this sense it must be appreciated. These are 17 slides, the first of which listed the five main points that I quote here: the overcoming of bicameralism as equals; the reduction of the number of parliamentarians; the reduction of the operating costs of the institutions; the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V. In fact, of these five points, the second, third and fourth are connected with each other and have the rather obvious aim of reducing public expenditure. I would point out that I agree with all five of these objectives to confirm that the desire to revise our Constitutional Charter is not just a prerogative of some. I would therefore like to comment on whether and how these objectives are achieved. Let us then examine the first point, the overcoming of equal bicameralism. With this constitutional revision, the two rooms are specialized. The House of Deputies remains the real political assembly where a government will be supported or not and more punctually evaluated. The Senate, on the other hand, changes completely, becomes the organ that deals with the themes, the instances, the needs that come from the many territories in which Italy is divided. This revision is aimed at maintaining the legislative function even at the head of the Senate in this area. However, the text shows that this is a residual aspect of the amendment. The fear is that more than overcoming bicameralism is the overcoming of bicameralism tout court. Perhaps we should have the courage to admit this and bring legislative action back to the House alone. With this situation it is therefore not justifiable that future senators have parliamentary immunity because they have reduced functions compared to Members. In addition, future senators no longer represent the nation and would create an unjustified difference between regional advisers who are also senators and regional advisers who are not. I believe it is essential that parliamentary immunity should be maintained, to the limit, only for Members, for their political role and the prerogatives they will retain. Here is another painful point about this revision of the Constitution: the composition of the Senate. The choice of the text is clear: the future senators will be to a greater extent regional councillors (in number of 74) and to a lesser extent mayors (as known will be 21: one per Region or Autonomous Province). Finally, there will be the five presidential nominations. This choice implies a more direct contact between the territories (regions and cities) and Parliament. At present, in this Senate, such a connection between the territorial authorities and the Senate takes place very loosely and depends on the ability and will of the individual senators to maintain this bond. The proximity between local needs and Parliament is undoubtedly strengthened with the councilors and the mayors-senators. It is therefore to be appreciated this novelty, but only if we assume that the activity in the Senate is not so expensive in temporal terms that it has to sacrifice the activity in City or Region. This is the risk of double assignment: an excessive workload for the individual advisor or mayor who is both senator. I wonder, then, if the parliamentary calendar of the future Senate will be adapted to the availability of senators and their commitments in City Hall or Region: I sincerely do not value this fact positively, for obvious reasons. A particularly important aspect is the eligibility of senators, who in many already have the title of advisor. I do not intend to go behind the point of choosing a second-degree election. In my opinion, it is always to be encouraged and guaranteed the participation of the people in the election of a branch of Parliament, albeit weakened, as will be the future assumed Senate. It is not a negotiable option that those who deal with constitutional revision, those who deal with electoral law and other important competences should be chosen directly by the citizens. To coincide the role of regional councillor or mayor with that of senator in the same natural person is, as I have said, a valid way of keeping closer the bond between the territorial authorities and Parliament, but I do not consider it appropriate or acceptable that the choice of who among the regional councillors should take this double role is entrusted to a second level election, to which in Italy we are not accustomed and which does not correspond to our tradition. On the other hand, it is more right and proper for the voters themselves to decide which of their regional councillors will become senators. In this respect, I have tabled a number of amendments which provide, in one case, that it is the members with the best relationship between the preferences obtained and the number of voters who become senators and, in the other, that they are defined by a second electoral round, where the passive electorate is limited to the regional councillors, while the active one corresponds, as always, to all voters. I consider these proposals of common sense, which I hope will receive the support of the House. As I said, the other objectives of the constitutional revision - the reduction of costs and the number of Members of Parliament and the abolition of the CNEL - are achieved, although they deserve a quick comment. In fact, we are going from 950 to 730 Members of Parliament, with a reduction of about 23% of their total number. More can be done, as the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, has said, by intervening on the number of Members, reaching the value of 600 or even 500 Members in total. The reduction in costs seems to me to be limited exclusively to a reduction in the number of Members and nothing more. I would also like to make a few comments on the instruments of direct democracy that are being modified in this text; I refer to the instrument of the repealing referendum and the laws of popular initiative: in both cases it is difficult to be certain of the impact that the proposed changes will have. The current number of signatures has been defined in the current Constitution when in 1948 Italy was a predominantly agricultural country, with 12 or 13 million inhabitants less than today, but it has grown considerably since then and communications have improved. An increase in the number of signatures (800,000 for the repealing referendum and 250,000 for the laws of popular initiative) is therefore reasonable and can be shared. This increase, in the case of the repealing referendum, is then offset by the lowering of the quorum to half plus one of the voters in the last parliamentary elections and by the possibility to ask beforehand (on the 90th day of the collection of signatures and the achievement of 400,000 units) for the legitimacy of the Constitutional Court, while the increase is balanced, in the case of the laws of popular initiative, by the certainty of the examination by Parliament. For this last point, however, as a comfort on the numerical choice to be made, we can take as a reference, by analogy, the number of signatures provided for for the right of initiative of European citizens: in Article 11 (4) of the Treaty of the European Union, one million signatures are envisaged for the European Commission to intervene with its own legal act on an issue proposed precisely by European citizens. If we make the relationship between the approximately 500 million European citizens and the million signatures required and apply the same relation to the Italian reality in which we have 60 million inhabitants, then we do not reach a value of 250,000 signatures, as in the current text, but of 120,000. In this respect, I have proposed an amendment which brings us back to this precise European reference. It is also regrettable that it has not been possible to introduce some form of proactive referendum: I believe that popular participation in political life is also expressed through these instruments and should be stimulated as much as possible, given the abstentionist drift that we are experiencing in recent years. With regard to the changes to Title V, we are proceeding to implement that series of adjustments on which, in recent years, we all agreed: the elimination of competing competences, which has generated only the proliferation of disputes between the different institutions, for example. Some of the powers were then entrusted exclusively to the State, and I agree with that. I am referring, for example, to energy. On the other hand, I am not convinced by the possibility offered to the Regions of greater autonomy, but linked to the balance between revenue and expenditure. I do not believe that principles of this importance and value can be conditioned by budgetary considerations with a rewarding mechanism of dubious constitutionality. Much more could be said about this profound constitutional revision but, in conclusion, let us deal with this proposal in a calm manner, with a timely evaluation of the measure. With this in mind, I repeat my personal aversion to the ineligibility of future senators by citizens, who would feel stripped of their right, and would promote the removal of citizens from the institutions. This circumstance, combined with the parliamentary immunity attributed to future senators, impels me to a negative assessment of this draft constitutional revision. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u52	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u55	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, please invite the Government to come and report to the House on the announcement that ENI has made that it wants to stop refining in Italy. I think this, Mr President, is a mistake. The wrong idea is being generated in our country that some mature sectors of Italian manufacturing - such as cars, steel and now refining - are not able to withstand in a competitive global context. Mr President, we have examples in Europe, with Germany in mind, which show that in a competitive environment, even when there is a contraction in global demand - as is happening not only for cars but also for refining - a modern country that invests, researches and innovates can maintain high levels of production capacity and even transform the crisis into an important opportunity and resource of change. The announcement, however, is even more serious, President, if we go to see in the folds of this decision, it is that in fact the plants of the South would be closed, with the ENI of Gela in mind. And this is a mistake in error. It is a very serious mistake in the meantime in the method because this announcement has bypassed the institutional bodies of the national government and the government of the Region. It is also an error in the error because Gela has a vast and innovative production capacity, as well as a professional capacity of the workers and the induced, with the involvement of more than 3,000 employees, able to accompany that project of change, innovation and research that ENI had announced. It is a mistake in the President error because, if we were to put the issue under the strict side of the accounts and losses, the greatest losses in Italy are recorded in the refinery of Sannazzaro in Lombardy; the one in which the minor losses are recorded is precisely the refinery of Gela. Where does it close, though? To Gela. I think, from this point of view too, there is therefore a mistake in the error. So I think this is a wrong model. The environment has been robbed in the past decades and now that we have to move to a biological and innovative conversion of refining, a closure is announced. That's why we have to avoid a mockery. We already have on our shoulders the burning history of Termini Imerese; we must not repeat this story. We must ensure that the ENI present to the Government - and the Government stimulates - a modern, environmentally sustainable, innovative industrial policy and that there is consultation and a capacity for dialogue, so that these decisions are weighed and balanced. Mr President, of course, this issue will be a cause of great conflict; it will divide the country and trigger a social reaction in the territories concerned. Personally - as already announced by the President of the Crocetta Region - we will hear about this: we will not get away with it. As I have already said, we consider the ENI's decision to be a mistake from all points of view. We have good reasons not to pity a charitable attitude, but to ask for a leap in production quality in the Italian fabric and in the presence of refining in Gela. We are in a position to provide numbers, figures and advance innovative assumptions. Therefore, Mr President, we have the rules to oppose and try to block this idea. Please take charge of this matter and inform the Government, asking it not to be notary or passive, but active and dynamic, as is the case in all advanced countries. This government has the numbers and credibility to do it. So, Mr President, we appeal to you to stop this decision immediately, to turn your back on it and to open a positive one in the industrial affair of our country, where Gela wants to be, with her head high and with equal dignity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-279.ana.u57	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.01 p.m.
