ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 27 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u4	I inform you that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Health: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 52 of 31 March 2014 laying down urgent provisions for the overcoming of psychiatric hospitals" (1417).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u5	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] On 30 March 2014 Gerardo D'Ambrosio, a member of our Assembly in the 15th and 16th legislature, died in Milan. With its disappearance one of the main protagonists of the Italian judicial events and a witness of commitment and consistency spent at the service of democratic institutions. Born in Santa Maria a Vico, in the province of Caserta, on 29 November 1930, he graduated in law in Naples in 1952. Five years later, he entered the judiciary. He was assigned to the Procurator of the Republic at the court of Nola, later transferred to the court of Voghera and finally arrived in Milan as a civil praetor to become, after five years, criminal instructor judge leading the investigation to the trial for the massacre of Piazza Fontana. On his independence and impartiality he said: My robe has always been like that of others: black and with golden cords. Manlio Milani, president of the Association among the relatives of the victims of the massacre in Piazza della Loggia, confirms this: It had only one principle in mind, that of legality. He was intact, intransigent to himself and to others. He said: "We must be cruel to ourselves: the country has refused legality." In 1981 he passed to the General Prosecutor of Milan with functions of deputy attorney general, a position he held for eight years and during which he supported the accusation in the crac trial of Banco Ambrosiano. In 1989 he became assistant prosecutor directing the organized crime department and since 1991 that of crimes against the public administration. In 1992 he entered the pool of Clean Hands. Saverio Borrelli, in an interview, remembers it this way: "D'Ambrosio has always given a contribution of wisdom and doctrine, indispensable." From 1999 he was the head of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Milan until he retired in 2002. On his 72nd birthday, the day before his retirement, he said: There are no good or bad times in the judiciary. There are times when we try to do our duty to the full, with great impartiality. It's not like I'm leaving the judiciary. I will continue to deal with the problems of the judiciary and will continue to fight for the problems of justice to be resolved. D'Ambrosio was so, a fighter, a fighter always, and in fact after the judiciary he dealt with justice as a senator. He left his robe but never gave up his commitment to justice. At the 2006 general election he accepted the candidacy proposed by the Left Democrats and was elected senator for the Lombardy Region and in the 2008 elections he was confirmed senator of the Democratic Party. In both the legislatures he was a member of the 2nd Permanent Commission, where he had the opportunity to address the issues of justice that had prompted him to devote himself, after his experience as a magistrate, to political life, and I found him there during the numerous hearings held in that legislature, the last, in the framework of reforms on justice and security. He was always actively involved in parliamentary work and debates. As he made clear in his speeches, particularly during the annual debates on the report of the Minister of Justice, D'Ambrosio was aware of the serious difficulties that plagued, and unfortunately still afflict, the Italian judicial system, in particular the long times of defining the trials. He was convinced that in order to solve the problem it was necessary to intervene in the discipline of the appeals in order to adapt them to the logic of the accusatory rite, thus remedying a gap left by the legislator in 1988. He was also very attentive to the needs of international cooperation, to the fight against crime; he was in fact the rapporteur in both the legislatures of the measures aimed at setting up joint supranational investigation teams. The civil passion led him on several occasions to express dissatisfaction with the difficulty encountered as a new Member of Parliament to intervene effectively on the unresolved issues of justice. He once confided to me: They don't listen to us. For him the principles came before the contingency because the principles are the founding values of the rule of law, of justice and of democracy. In the session of 23 May 2012, recalling Giovanni Falcone, twenty years after the Mafia attack, he said: The disappointments did not stop Falcone, who was a great man, a man of great intelligence and great capacity, but also of great seriousness. His words apply to us as an intransigent warning and are his most vivid memory. D'Ambrosio did not stop in the face of disappointments; his seriousness was synonymous with intelligence, fidelity to the Constitution and its founding values. In fact, D'Ambrosio has always fought with that great sense of the State and the institutions that has guided him throughout his life. He contributed and fought to the last; his was one of the highest demonstrations of integrity and set of severity. I therefore conclude my remembrance of Gerardo D'Ambrosio with his words: The tendency to look for the shortcut is, in some way, human. But the question is first and foremost cultural. But I remember that our country has also been able to give good examples. I think of all those officials, some known and many dark, who have served the state in an intimate way for years, for decades. Rediscovering the educational value of integrity: that would be the solution. Ladies and gentlemen, in memory of Gerardo D'Ambrosio, I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] Hi, Gerardo. [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u8	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, this is how it always ends. With death. First, though, there was life. These are the words that end the film "La grande bellezza" (The Great Beauty), which gave the Oscar back to Italy last month, and I believe that this is really the case, even for Judge Gerardo D'Ambrosio. An intense life, at the service of the State; a life lived secularly, without ideological prejudices and without any doubt in its activity about the need to serve justice, legality and law: I repeat, without any prejudice. He went through all the saddest events in republican history; if Senator Zavoli were here we could say that he went through every night of the Republic: he had to face the nights of the Republic, his conscience as an integral man, as a free man, at the service of law and justice. From Piazza Fontana to Banco Ambrosiano, from Mani clean to the fight against corruption, as director of the department on organized crime first and the one on crimes against public administration then: in all these activities as prosecutor of the Republic, as investigating judge, he was able to go through the most difficult moments of republican history, with in his hands the files and files on the facts that compromised the democratic holding of the Republican State, with wisdom, prudence, intelligence, the wisdom that a judge perfectly aware of the great role he must play was able to play. Therefore, I believe that we must really live this moment with the intensity that is required of this House, where the representatives of the people sit, for which Judge D'Ambrosio has exercised his high magisterium and his function as magistrate for about forty years. He claimed that the educational value of integrity must be rediscovered: this is how corruption is fought. A hymn to rigour, austerity, which we are now used to associating only with economic issues, when first of all they are moral categories to be applied to the life of each of us and in relations with others. I think that we must remember it this way, with the intensity of the function that it has been able to perform and - I repeat - with the secularity with which it has done it, in the full sense of the term, that is, the absence of any prejudice. He did not like - and did not hide it - colleagues who were judged Taliban, in the sense that sometimes prejudice prevailed over the intensity of the duty to apply the law, regardless of any other consideration. This is the figure of a great man, of a magistrate, of a political man who in private life, in public life, in professional life and in civil life, assuming the position of senator, has been an example for all of us, giving us also a great lesson in life. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u11	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Mr Gerardo D'Ambrosio was one of the main protagonists of the Italian judiciary, although it was the Milanese season of Clean Hands, at the beginning of the 1990s, that made him known to the general public. He became a magistrate in 1957 and spent most of his professional life at the Milan courthouse, first as a civil praetor, then as a criminal instructor judge. In this capacity he followed some of the most important investigations, such as the one on the massacre of Piazza Fontana and the one on the death of Giuseppe Pinelli in 1975. In 1981 he was assigned to the general prosecutor of Milan as deputy attorney general for eight years, during which he supported the charge in the first trials for terrorism and in the trial following the oil scandal. In 1989, appointed Assistant Prosecutor of Milan, he first directed the organized crime department and, since 1991, that of crimes against the public administration. Since 1992 he has been - as is known - among the protagonists of the pool that dealt with the investigation Clean Hands; these are the years of Tangentopoli. In 1999, now head prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Milan, he contributed to the reorganization of the offices, required by the introduction of the single judge. After reaching the retirement age, in 2002, he devoted himself to politics during the 2006 elections, with the candidacy - as you pointed out earlier - proposed by the Left Democrats, subsequently re-elected and re-elected in 2008. "A magistrate who has done his work in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution" has been said, that is to say with rigorous interpretation of the law, but with the section of the magistrate who recognizes the dignity of the people; precisely, the discretion of the magistrate, who expresses himself only and only through the device of a sentence; the sobriety in public representation; the calmness, as well as the firmness character and his suffering interiority, both for family affairs, such as the loss of the beloved wife, from which resulted a further spur for his civil commitment, and for professional events - as once again, Mr President, you have brought back to our attention - for the loss of illustrious colleagues. These are the indisputable traits of the magistrate Gerardo D'Ambrosio, of the person, of the man Gerardo D'Ambrosio. It has also been able to deal with political testimony with equal balance, I would say - and I stress this - with intellectual honesty. So I'm not talking about some kind of political career. In the vocabulary of his life, as a magistrate and not, he did not contemplate the lemma "carriera." Another was the semantics of his life, the one that, maturing in the formation of the prestigious University Federico II of Naples, and even more familiar, gave him the opportunity to face, with recognized balance and competence, complex junctions in judicial history, Italian and not only. Of course, he experienced political activity as a senator of the Republic in the 15th and 16th legislatures, between 2006 and 2013, unfortunately without affecting as deeply as he could and would have liked. Precisely in the transition from roles in the judiciary to those of political-parliamentary representation, it has consistently demonstrated great civil passion. That he had a great civil passion consists of everyone. We can also say that he lived this civil commitment, this conscious passion without overflowing, neither before nor after, consistent as always to the behavioral dictation molded for years in the judiciary, a personal habitus I would say, ultimately. And I'll finish. Upon receiving the pension, he declared: I have done only my duty; I am not a hero but a magistrate who has tried to apply the law. == [[Applause from the PI and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u12	We greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Liceo Stato Economico Sociale (Social State High School) Publius Virgilio Marone in Avellino, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u15	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, to commemorate, to remember, in a Chamber like ours, it has the strong meaning of trying to bring to the present facts, deeds and news about the person you have mentioned: you have done this very well and authoritatively, Mr President. Or - or perhaps, better: or even - it has another meaning, that of proposing to the present particular, personal notations that cling to the commemorated individual. This last characterisation of the commemoration is undoubtedly the most congenial to me that I do not belong to the same political force as Senator D'Ambrosio and that I have no authority within the republican hierarchy. So, trying, through my personal memory, to commemorate the Senator of Ambrosio is what I will try to do. [[Brusio. Senator Ferrara suspends his speech while waiting for the buzz to stop]] No word, I'm waiting. It is my duty, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to speak to the President. It is the President's courtesy to look at me and listen to me. In such a case it is also courtesy of the senator who has come to the bench of the Presidency - and in addition to courtesy it is perhaps a duty of all of us, not according to my authority, but what we are doing - to weigh behavior and words. The commemoration I wish to make has as a synthesis and in prologue a fairly famous phrase reported by several writers, I believe more authoritatively than all by Manzoni, who, at a certain point de "I promessi spousi" when submitting to the... (A senator near Senator Ferrara Mario speaks on the phone). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry to interrupt. Could you call on the members of your Group not to speak on the phone while you speak? Thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group]] FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mistake, ma'am. It's not from my group. Anyway, it's your duty! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyway, those who are close to her. FERRARA Mario (GAL). It's your duty, President, not mine. Read the Rules of Procedure in Rule 8: you regulate and direct the debate. [[Applause from the LAG and NCD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u16	I had prayed to all the leaders to raise awareness...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u17	FERRARA Mario (GAL). ...the members of the Groups, which was done. Come again, ma'am, come again. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Good. You can talk. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Thank you, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Thank you. President, good and evil are not divided with the knife: I repeat, Manzoni said so. Having been lucky enough to meet the prosecutor, Senator D'Ambrosio, in this Chamber and in these Palazzi made me realize how true that sentence was. President, compared to all the apparitions D'Ambrosio made on television, there has been one that has called much more for my attention than many others. I refer to the one where he, together with others, told of his terrible, how wonderful, experience of having been transplanted. In that interview, which I saw by chance, but which I followed with a certain emotion, albeit carefully, I found myself observing in the individual D'Ambrosio a surprising sensitivity and humanity. Well, Mr President, in this Chamber and in these Palaces we had the opportunity to see those qualities combined with a more than courteous lordship, which transfused into his personal relations, with me perhaps occasional, and which constantly accompanied his being here. Between good and evil one does not identify this or that dividing them with the knife. The truth is made of a thousand details, and to experience it with Senator D'Ambrosio was very important to me. He was a person of great depth, of great temper and great dignity. I say this with absolute conviction, emotion and sincerity. He was a senator we will remember, and I have the honour of commemorating, the human charge and the perseverance imperishment. [[Applause from the LAG Group and the Senators Puppato, Di Maggio and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u20	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr D'Ambrosio marked an important period in the life of this country, that of the interweaving of political and judicial life, as he was coordinator of the pool of clean Hands, which also changed the fate of national politics, and from 1992 to 2002 he was head of the Milan Public Prosecutor. We met him because from 2006 to 2013 he was senator, and with him we shared some experiences on these benches. There is no doubt that he has managed the most difficult investigations of this country, some of which have already been mentioned, such as the one on the massacre of Piazza Fontana or the one on the death of Pinelli, whose conclusion, having had to recognize the innocence of Commissioner Calabresi, did not bring him much sympathy from the ultra-left. Among the other delicate investigations in which we saw him as the first actor I remember when Borrelli entrusted him with the task of coordinating the investigations on the famous red tracker, that is, on the funding to the then PCI-PDS. We must say - and this goes to his honour - that he was the only magistrate of the pool who stood in favour of the safe conduct for humanitarian reasons against Bettino Craxi, who had indeed been condemned, and was indeed fugitive to Hammamet, but he was also seriously ill and had expressed the will to die in his country. Gerardo D'Ambrosio - I repeat - was the only magistrate of the pool to stand in favour of the hypothesis of a safe conduct. His parliamentary experience will have commented on it, we shared it. We saw that he was a little mortified by the parliamentary times that - alas - we know, but that for him perhaps they were exaggerated lengths. We also had very different positions: one of his proposals, for example, concerned the amendment of the Bossi-Fini law on the expulsion of third-country nationals. Well, we have opposed this proposal, but, beyond our ideological distance, we could not fail to appreciate first of all its commitment, its consistency and loyalty in human behavior and mutual relations. We want to remind you in this way, expressing our condolences to the family on behalf of the entire Lega Nord Group and Autonomous Senate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, first of all I would like to express on my behalf the Senators of the Left Ecology and Freedom and of all the Senators of the Mixed Group my deepest condolences and our closeness to the family. With Gerardo D'Ambrosio I personally shared here in the Senate the experience of the 15th legislature, among the benches of this House, and at that time I learned - and with me all my colleagues - to appreciate its seriousness and extreme correctness. Gerardo D'Ambrosio's vocation was not politics, it was justice, and, even as a senator of justice, he continued to take full-time care of himself. Many of the issues he has worked intensely on, devoting himself above all to what was his passion and offering his great contribution to try to give our country a reform of justice. During the 15th legislature, we also happened to find ourselves in different positions on the subject of indult. We discussed this and discussed it for a long time, not already on the basis of an ideological prejudice - which was completely absent in D'Ambrosio - but of the common intention to do the best thing to solve the problem of prison overcrowding, which we are still discussing today. We then shared with him his strenuous commitment against the epidemic of ad personam laws that more than any other single element has contributed, in our opinion, to the delegitimization of the institutions in the eyes of the public. D'Ambrosio took care of some of the most difficult and delicate investigations in republican history in that Milan prosecutor's office. He investigated the massacre of Piazza Fontana, the death of Pinelli, the crac of Banco Ambrosiano, the political corruption in the first Republic. Such delicate themes could not but raise polemics, and the right targeted him, to the point of denying him honorary citizenship in his hometown - Santa Maria a Vico - for the most important investigation he has dealt with, the one passed to history as clean Hands. However, I do not think anyone has ever been able to accuse D'Ambrosio of having exceeded the limits of his function, of having used the front page investigations he was working on to look for a bit of personal fame or to make a career. And he certainly did not like the spectacularization of the functions of the judiciary, nor did he admit that the defense of the judiciary went beyond a kind of holy war between good and evil. For this reason too, whether or not he agreed with his conclusions, Gerardo D'Ambrosio was an intimate figure, and as such he received a deserved and unanimous esteem. Its name will remain, playful, tied above all to the investigation Clean Hands: it was a victory of justice, which managed to shed light on the evil and corruption that had contaminated the entire first Republic, and it was a defeat of politics, which failed to seize that precious opportunity to build a clearer and no longer corrupt system. It was almost obvious and physiological that, once retired, D'Ambrosio continued the battle for legality and justice in Parliament, because the responsibility for not having followed the request for renewal that accompanied the investigation was and is all politics. Twenty years after that lost opportunity, of which the assistant prosecutor D'Ambrosio was the absolute protagonist, the challenge that awaits politics is still that: to create a clear, transparent political system, in which citizens can return to trust in the institutions and their representatives. This was also his commitment here in the Senate and for this reason we want to greet him with great affection and gratitude. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and Mixed-GAPp Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u26	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I am not without respect, and in any case without hatred or resentment, the senators of the New Right Centre today feel towards Gerardo D'Ambrosio feelings of regret, which are not dictated either by hypocrisy or by piousness for what was the lordship of his colleague, in this House for two legislatures. The idea that D'Ambrosio cultivated of legality was not ours: imbued with accusatory moralism his, clinging to defensive guaranteeing ours; to the limits of the ethical state his, inseparable from the rule of law, liberal, Christian, Manzoni ours. That is why it is difficult for us today, even a few days after his death, to separate ourselves from the affectionate and shared memory that we try against those who were the great targets of D'Ambrosio's work at the Milan prosecutor's office: from Severino Citalisti to Bettino Craxi, on the defendants' front. D'Ambrosio was an intransigent magistrate, always motivated by his idea of justice, who had difficulties all inside to accept the moment of thirdness. He also demonstrated this from a professional point of view, in the language of authorization to proceed that came here in 1992, with his signature, as well as Borrelli, Davico, Colombo and Di Pietro: there is a language frankly vulgar towards - indeed - esteemed and regrets colleagues like Severino Citalisti and others. Then, at the head of that prosecutor's office, so flattened it seemed on colleagues such as Borrelli, Di Pietro and his associates, at some point he had a very lively confrontation against another deputy attorney who anticipated him in Parliament, in the House it seems to me: Tiziana Parenti. Probably D'Ambrosio did not share the ruthless zeal with which Tiziana Parenti had moved towards Primo Greganti or in other cases of the kind, but then why by Gerardo D'Ambrosio so much lack of humanity towards, for example, Balzamo? Today "Il Foglio" by Giuliano Ferrara recalls some of his statements about Balzamo in controversy with his colleague Nordio, who frankly from a human point of view, Manzoni, are disdainful to want to honour the personality of D'Ambrosio. But we want to give him this honour, because we have known him in Parliament. The limits of your parliamentaryism, Mr President, are those which you also mentioned. The son of a corporate and corporate conception of the institutions, he did not question, as a former prosecutor, whether he was concerned with justice, whether he was a member of the 2nd Commission and whether he complained about the poor circulation of sensitivity with his colleagues in this House. Parliament, and parliamentarism, were difficult to accept to the mindset of those like D'Ambrosio. But the greatness of Parliament and parliamentarism is revealed in the randomness of the calendars. Today - and we do so with deep emotion - we remember his figure and pay tribute to him, interrupting a debate on protective custody. Those values of our Constitution, in our opinion, D'Ambrosio stepped on when, perhaps out of psychological subjection towards Borrelli, he said: It is not that we arrest them to make them speak, but we release them when they speak. Parliamentarianism is something greater than the miserable events on which we sit on one side or on the other side of Parliament. But when one becomes a former parliamentarians, on this side and on this side, one bows to the memory of those who are no longer there and solidarity with the sentiments of his loved ones. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u29	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Gerardo D'Ambrosio, the magistrate of the Republic, the servant of the State, we of the 5 Star Movement want to remember this: as a man who has spent his life at the service of his country to prevail the best part, the respect of the rules, the law, against corruption, the cleverness and the arrogance of the powerful, who do not have the restraint to silence even in this hour, which would be that of memory and emotion. They have no fear and shame! I say that Gerardo D'Ambrosio would not have wanted fine words here, but only the thought that his life and his commitment have not passed unnecessarily, so as not to make him a defeated one. We of the 5 Star Movement collect this commitment, because we intend to carry on the battles that were of the Clean Hands pool, in order to finally have an Italy free from corruption and evil. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u32	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I too would like to express our condolences and our closeness to the relatives of Senator Gerardo D'Ambrosio, whom I had the pleasure of knowing personally and with whom I cooperated during the last parliamentary term in the bicameral committee on simplification. I have thus had the opportunity to personally appreciate his skills of competence, seriousness, dedication, and also his politeness and lordship: qualities that are universally recognized to him and that are echoed also in the memories of his colleagues who preceded me. Of everything that has been written and said in these days of Gerardo D'Ambrosio I have been impressed, and I would like to share them with you, in particular two small portraits. The first is that of the president of the Milan court, Livia Pomodoro, who recalled the beautiful days spent with him, to discuss not only trials but also the life of the city and citizens. A true bell that could speak lightly, because behind the public character, the magistrate, the politician has always been first and foremost a man: there is a man. The second portrait is that of a journalist, Filippo Facci, who has never hidden his absolute dissent with respect to the investigations of Pulite Hands coordinated by Dr. D'Ambrosio, but who, remembering it, emphasized its character as a gallant man and a certain diversity of trait compared to colleagues of the Milan pool. He was a man, D'Ambrosio, certainly not foreign to politics, indeed (and in fact here we remember him as Senator of the DS and then of the PD), and already before running his signature appeared as editorialist on the head of the Unity. However, at several moments of his life, Senator D'Ambrosio certainly broke the schemes, surprised those who thought they knew him. I like to remind him for the surprise that, as far as I am concerned, it is certainly the most surprising, considering the climate and the context of those dark years (and fortunately far away); in fact, he deposited in 1975 the sentence on the death of the anarchist Pinelli - fallen six years before by a window of the Milan police station - with which Commissioner Calabresi was exonerated, victim of a mortal companion of hatred promoted by "Lotto Continua" and by vast sectors of the extreme left. At that juncture, issuing that sentence meant being accused of fascism: that was an act of courage and it was also the first time that the name of Gerardo D'Ambrosio was linked to an event that made the history of our Republic. Other important processes have then seen him protagonist (terrorism, oil scandal, Calvi case): there is no doubt, however, that the public figure of the magistrate Gerardo D'Ambrosio has defined himself - I would say forever - as assistant prosecutor of Milan since 1989 and, above all, since 1991-1992 as coordinator of the investigations on crimes against public administration and finally of the pool of Clean Hands with Francesco Saverio Borrelli. There D'Ambrosio really made history, and the pool was so aware of it that it matured a projection towards the outside of a compact and militant group, except then the dissent on the methods, but also on the targets, of other magistrates intervened later, like Tiziana Parenti. So compact was the group to have the retired prosecutor Borrelli still say: We also had to fight against friendly fire, an explicit admission of a climate of war and the existence not only of enemies, but also of friends of the pool. Borrelli, who never entered directly into politics, perhaps because his proxy had already played an inevitable political role in dismantling a system of power, recalls that D'Ambrosio did not hesitate to profess himself a man of the left and sensitive to socialism, warning however that these cultural inclinations have never interfered in judicial assessments. As always, history will give us the right distance to express serene judgments. Of course, D'Ambrosio never stopped surprising: for example, when he said, in 1996, that Craxi financed politics and not himself, and called an honest speech that of July 5, 1992 to the House, the act of indictment of the party financing system; or when he declared that he would not sign a serious measure such as the request for arrest for a President of the Regional Council, because, when the President of an elected Assembly is sent to the housekeepers, I quote Verbatim, the judge must ask himself what the consequences will be. A very significant judgment to define the perimeter of the relations between politics and justice. The political dimension, political awareness and sensitivity of Gerardo D'Ambrosio are known to all. The senators, in particular, had the opportunity to touch with hand, on the one hand, the humanity and culture of the colleague, on the other hand, his commitment, which someone also called organic, form of refined intelligence in forging his professional and political life around ideal and concrete objectives. Some of his friends may have been surprised when, once he left the ranks of the judiciary, he decided to run, of course in the DS and then in the Democratic Party. Senator for two legislatures: an experience that, according to everyone, did not enthuse him, perhaps because he could - and certainly wanted - affect and weigh more. For the last consideration that remains to be made, I take inspiration from the memory that we read yesterday in the chronicle of a journalist who knew him very well, Luigi Ferrarella, Corriere della Sera. In his hospital bed in Milan, in the most difficult moments, he was back to a bitterness that goes to his absolute honour: the suicide in San Vittore in 1993 by Gabriele Cagliari, President of the ENI, to prove the difficulty of exercising the functions of magistrate when there are life, honor and freedom of the people, guilty or innocent. D'Ambrosio therefore had this sensitivity. There is a man who we remember for his intellectual finesse and because he belongs, as few, to the history of this country, who helped to write, perhaps dividing opinions, but leaving to all of us senators, united today in regret, the impression of a serene but strong personality, certainly of a protagonist. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u35	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, there will be other occasions on which to devote to the memory of Gerardo D'Ambrosio all the depth, precision and time necessary to illustrate his human qualities, personality, firm character and civil value of both the magistrate and the senator. Today we can remember it, and I want to remember it, only with admiration, friendship and affection. The strong thread that guided his life was that of public and republican commitment, always in the figure of intellectual honesty, strict behavior and consistency of opinions. And also, at the same time, great humanity, the great openness to dialogue and confrontation, the great willingness to listen to those who needed his opinions. Many of us have met him personally and have been colleagues for seven years here in the Senate, where he has continued to follow the straight line that has marked his whole life: the defence of the freedoms and rights of people according to the fundamental principles established by the Constitution. Gerardo D'Ambrosio believed and defended the values of the rule of law and, both as a magistrate and as a senator, those of the separation of powers: the exact opposite of what Senator Compagna said just now. No accusatory moralism, no indulgence towards the ethical state: nothing further not only from culture, but also from the daily practice of Gerardo D'Ambrosio. No more unjust and unmotivated remarks than I have heard. [[Applause from Senator Finocchiaro]] I have often talked to him here in the Senate and I can say that I have been his friend and enjoyed some of his time. The length of time and obstruction of the Senate Chamber irritated him, but at the bottom he liked to be and, above all, to be a senator, a full-time profession. He lost patience only in the face of the approximation that unfortunately we often indulge even on fundamental issues of the state's structure. How many times have we seen him stand in the Chamber and speak with his stern face, but he was sweet when he smiled. And he said, speaking of himself: I grew up on bread and constitution. And this refrain represents all Gerardo D'Ambrosio. Speaking of him, one of his fellow magistrates yesterday said he didn't appreciate the judges passing through the political line. I have a different view: judges, like all citizens, must be able to exercise fundamental political rights; as they vote, they must be able to be elected in Parliament. What matters is how they make politics, how their deontological rigour counts, how institutionally we move from exercising the judiciary to legislative power. One of the reasons why, having so much appreciated Gerardo D'Ambrosio Magistrate, I continued to appreciate him as a parliamentarians, was precisely the right measure of his concrete behavior, of the things he said and of the decisions he made. This morning, in Milan, the priest who celebrated the funeral rite recalled that Gerardo D'Ambrosio, throughout his life, has sought justice and is a great truth. Gerardo D'Ambrosio was a left-wing man and knew what it was like to be a magistrate. He was a true democrat and he did the parliamentarians with the sole aim of helping to make the right laws. Just as the magistrate must do, D'Ambrosio has always been careful not to appear a biased politician. I would also like to thank him very much for this. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u36	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1232, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 380, 944 and 1290. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting a preliminary question was rejected, the general discussion took place, the rapporteur and the representative of the Government were again asked to respond, and Senator Calderoli proposed not to move on to the examination of the articles under Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles made by Senator Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the text of the drafts and amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u37	Mr President, with the proposed amendments we intend to make interventions which we consider to be absolutely improvement of the measure under consideration. In particular, Amendment 1,100 aims directly at deleting the whole of Article 1, which - I recall - in the text proposed by the Commission provides that: In Article 274 (1) (b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the following shall be inserted after the word "concrete": "and current" and the following period shall be added at the end: "The situations of actual and present danger cannot be derived solely from the seriousness of the crime for which it is committed." As we have also pointed out in general discussion, we believe that the major problem raised by this measure is a form of dismantling the institution of protective custody. In particular, we are talking about a real perplexity that we have in relation to this rule. Indeed, by including this amendment, it is stated that the conditions of concrete and current danger, which can be derived from a situation, cannot be derived from the gravity of the crime. I am thinking of the case where it is considered that the crime cannot be repeated, such as that of a person who has exterminated his family, having no other: in this case, therefore, the precautionary measure may not be applied because it is considered that the crime cannot be repeated. The example may be a little excessive, but that is the concept that we want to express. In any case, this measure, no matter how much it wants to improve the application of the institution of protective custody (and we share the objective, because a particular abuse of this institution has been made), at the same time we realize that, as it is structured, it could create many difficulties. If I may, I should also like to explain the other amendments tabled to the same Article. With Amendment 1,101 we propose simply to replace the word 'only' with the following: 'also'. If we read Article 1, we note that it states that: The situations of actual and present danger cannot be derived solely from the seriousness of the crime for which it is committed. By proposing the replacement of the word "exclusively" with the word "also" we intend to remove in some ways the greatest - pass me the term - burdensomeness in the magistrate's evaluation of the conditions for the application of protective custody. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u38	I am in favour of amendment 1,300 and against all the other amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u39	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u42	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u43	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,100 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,200 tabled by Senator Airola and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,101 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,300. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,300 tabled by Senator Palma. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 1 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u44	Mr President, I rise to speak on Amendment 2.100, to which I add my signature, deletion of Rule 2. We believe that this article makes the magistrate's statement of reasons excessively burdensome for the purpose of obtaining protective custody. And of course this also applies to very serious crimes: in this case it would be difficult for the magistrate to operate, given a difficulty that is no longer relative to the definition of dangerous personality, as it was before and that could be removed from having committed a very serious fact in itself, because it shifts everything on the ability to repeat the crime. This, in our view, greatly weakens the guarantee of security that citizens are asking for. Let us return, therefore, to the preliminary question, Mr President, namely that this measure hopes that there will be only, and substantially, those sentenced to death in prison. It's not like that. We know that. Of a total of 65,917 prisoners present at 30 April 2013 in 206 Italian prisons, the prisoners in custody were 24,637, or 37.3 percent of the total, of which 12,258 even pending the first judgment. It is clear that it is not a question of lightening the way in which protective custody is applied, with the risk that great criminals will be left free; instead, it is a question of reforming justice, which the country needs so that the times of trial are shorter and is guaranteed to all citizens, both to those who have been harmed and to those who have committed a crime, to obtain a judgment in a fast time. It is clear that the objective promoted by the legislator clashes with reality. With the provision contained in Article 2 to lighten the protective measures, we will simply leave out of prison even dangerous criminals, thus applying the protective measures to what we call "small store": we know, however, that the small expression does not correspond to the social alarm that is very widespread among Italian citizens, especially among those who live in those countries where, following the cuts imposed by the government on the police, people will be even more defenceless. We therefore believe that the amendment should be adopted in order to remove the article in question from the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 2,101 by referring to the same reasons that we had expressed at the time of the illustration of Amendment No 1,101. In fact, Article 2 of the draft law provides for an amendment to Article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on which Amendment 2,101, which in turn seeks to amend point (c) (amendment 1,101, on the other hand, intervened on point (b)). Again, the rule provides for the possibility of assessing situations of concrete and current danger, also in relation to the person of the accused, not deducing them exclusively from the seriousness of the crime. With Amendment 2,101 we propose to establish that situations of concrete and current danger can also be derived (so, not exclusively, as is in the text) from the seriousness of the crime, so as to give the magistrate a greater chance of applying the institute of precautionary measures. The problem that we have posed ourselves - which has already been mentioned earlier - is that the seriousness of the crime, however serious it may be, may not exclude that there can be no danger or risk of escape or recurrence of the crime. In any event, when dealing with particular offences, we believe that the possibility of applying protective custody should be considered more widely. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u46	I am against both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u47	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u48	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u51	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u52	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Stefani and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u53	Mr President, if we are going to read Article 3 of the draft law, it is basically a rule in certain respects of coordination with the last measures that we have taken precisely on the extension of the application of house arrests and, in the execution of the sentence, on suspension (think of the July measure last year). Well, Article 3 provides that the measure of detention in prison or of house arrest may not be applied if the judge considers that a suspended sentence may be granted or if he considers that the execution of the sentence may be suspended at the outcome of the trial. In this case too, sharing in some ways the guidance of the legislator, that is to say not to apply the institute of protective custody when in reality one should not even serve the minimum of the penalty, we believe that those provided for by this rule are always interventions that go continuously to restrict the application of the institute of protective custody in prison. I do not want to dwell on more general issues which have already been discussed in general; what is particularly perplexing to us is the whole of this measure, because, apart from certain assumptions that may be acceptable, how to limit a little more a certain abuse that there has been of the institution of protective custody, to any good account going to affect at this time even historical on this institution, with the delicate consequences that this entails, certainly cannot find us favorable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u54	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 3,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u55	I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u56	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u57	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u58	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u61	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Stefani and Bitonci to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.100. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. Amendment 3,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,101 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,102. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,102 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u63	We greet students, students and teachers of the State Institute of Higher Education, nautical address, Duca degli Abruzzi in Catania. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u65	Mr President, I would add my signature to Amendment 4,100. The reason that leads us to propose the deletion of Article 4 follows the reasoning previously carried out, but I put before the reasoning of merit a political consideration that I address to the majority, to the Democratic Party: are you sure that President Renzi wants this measure? Are you sure about that? Because it seems to be traced on the basis of the previous measures with the aim simply to give a tap of sponge and a whitewash here and there; everything but the turn is good. There is nothing here at all, and in our proposal to delete the article we want to remedy it and give you an emergency exit. The citizens must know, they must understand that this type of measure - as has been said several times - if the article in question is not cashed out, it will make it substantially impossible for the prosecutor, who will be asked essentially for diabolical proofs: it will practically be possible to arrest the criminals only in the act of flight or by flagrant crime that is more flagrant than flagrant. It is clear that all this, therefore, with a necessity that we reaffirm, is to guarantee, at the same time, the safety of citizens with regard to those who pass on laws and to those who are responsible above all for violent acts and, on the other hand, to those who, even if they have committed a crime, have the right to a fast trial, which has nothing to do with it and which is not questioned, is not innovative by this law provision. Therefore, if this article is not deleted, it will give a further blow to the judiciary's ability to give that service which citizens instead require of respect for the rules and - as we said this morning - to ensure that justice is not important but is a very important thing. We must be clear, Mr President: this way of proceeding with us does not convince us at all. We therefore believe that the adoption of the proposed amendment can give a further way out in this last phase of the law itself, as it has come to the Senate. It will, of course, be the responsibility of those who are going to vote against the amendment, and then support the article (then, of course, there will be the whole structure of the law), to take this umpteenth responsibility before the citizens, reaffirming a concept, namely that the only thing that should be done, a reform of justice such as to guarantee close times and above all certainty of punishment, is not touched on in this measure, which would be needed instead. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of amendment 4,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u68	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment No 4,100, at this point in advance of the explanation of vote, representing that this is absolutely not a situation as has been explained, since Article 5 of the House of Members then, which has become Article 4, intervenes on a very limited part of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in particular on paragraph 3 of Rule 275. I would like to reassure you on the situation. In fact, there is an article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which explains, in a very detailed way, what are the precautionary measures arranged in the presence of certain essential requirements, which refer, in summary, to probative needs, to the danger of escape and the danger of recurrence of the crime. Paragraph 3 of Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure deals with criteria for the choice of the measure. This very paragraph 3, as it stands, refers in particular to the issue of the most serious offenses. Now, to think that this paragraph, as approved by the House of Deputies and as we propose to confirm, can distort the system of precautionary measures is absolutely outside the procedural reality. The same general conditions for the applicability of the measures remain; the specific requirements referred to in Article 274 remain and the criteria are also more explicit. As always, when it comes to protective custody measures and interdictive or coercive measures which are also applied retroactively, it is a question of finding the balance between the procedural requirements, the need to prevent the flight and also to protect society from the repetition of certain conducts, as well as to protect the person investigated in its fundamental rights, such as those pertaining to freedom. We believe that this text, as received by the House of Deputies, has found a balance that must be confirmed in the current wording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u69	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u70	Mr President, the Government also takes the opposite view and shares the remarks made earlier by Senator Casson. That at our examination is a fundamental point, the heart of the reform, which invites the judge to use protective custody as an extreme ratio.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u71	Having not been tabled on Article 4 other amendments than the deletion of Article 4,100, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the maintenance of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u72	Mr President, we withdraw Amendment 5,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u73	Mr President, on Amendment 5,201 there is a refuse. At the end of the amendment, the text must be understood as meaning: "416-a" and " 416-b," instead of "576-b," which has nothing to do with it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is This is, therefore, an amendment which is clearly due to a printing error.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u74	Mr President, I would like to explain a number of amendments tabled to Rule 5. As has been argued so far, the legislation introduced by this draft law does not favour us at all. Although Article 5 does not actually involve major revolutionary interventions, we believe, in every respect, that in the state of the art the current situation is acceptable and therefore we believe that we must continue on the same trend. As can be seen from the dossier, we have proposed a number of amendments, whose intention, which is not to hide and I think it is obvious, is certainly not to aggravate the work of this House, but to give us time to assess the goodness of the introduction of this amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. All the amendments tabled, which I shall present until 5.20 p.m., and then leave the floor to my Divine colleague for 5.21 p.m., are aimed at amending this part of the measure in the sense that we consider to be improving. Let us also remember that the institution of protective custody is delicate and that its application must be assessed in a particularly serious way. Of course, one wonders why we have to intervene at the regulatory level, when perhaps it would be enough for the same magistrate who applies the rule to make different assessments, not abuse them. It is obvious that law is not mathematics, we all know it, but in the application of any rule there are certainly boundaries, within which the magistrate who is called to apply and have an institute must act not only in the most correct but also as just as possible. We do not see the need to take further action on the extent of detention, at a time such as the present, when there is an increase in crime, especially for predatory crimes, and there is a feeling of lack of attention to safety issues, on which we have been fighting for years. We therefore believe that with yet another measure on this subject it really hurts our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u75	Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 5.21 and I would like to explain it. We would like to simplify the controls, while the text, on the other hand, makes the situation worse. With the amendment we are asking for the deletion of paragraph 3, which effectively complicates the reasoning which the judge must give, with its specific reasons, in order to comply with the control procedures. Just so we understand each other, let's talk about the electronic bracelet. Beyond our opposition to the provision emptys prisons, we ask you if at least some control procedures against those who can benefit from protective measures alternative to prison - for those few situations that still give some guarantee - we want to keep them still standing. I mean, is it gonna be a crime to control a convict tomorrow? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u76	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 5,201 and 5,111, for the latter only with regard to the first part, i.e. until the words '9 October 1990', Nos 309, and the second part is opposed to the opinion. Senator Stefani is therefore asked to reformulate the amendment as requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u77	Senator Stefani, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal? STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PALMA, f. f. rapporteur. Finally, I am against the remaining amendments to Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u78	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u81	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u82	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Amendment 5,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,201 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 5,201 (correct text), tabled by Senator Lumia and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. It therefore precludes amendments from 5,100 to 5,110. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.11 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 5.11 (text 2) tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 5.112. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.12 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,202. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5,202 tabled by Senators Fucksia and Buccarella. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 5.13 Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.13 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci, up to the words "624- bis". I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). (Some Senators of the M5S Group point out to the Presidency that there is a light on at the bench of Senator Compagna, who is not in his place). Please, Senator Comrade, come to your post and vote for you. [[Senator Comrade gets to his station. The Senators of the M5S Group continue to protest, indicating to the Presidency the light lit at the position of Senator Tarquinio, who is not in his place.]] I invite the secretary senators to check it out. [[Senator Tarquinio reaches his station. Comments from the FI-Pdl XVII Group.]] Well, we've restored the situation. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. Therefore, the remainder of amendment 5.13 and amendments 5.14 and 5.15 are not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 5.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.16 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci, up to the words "and 628" by way of electronic procedure. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. Therefore, the remainder of amendment 5.16 and amendment 5.117 are not included. Amendments 5.118 and 5.119 are absorbed by the adoption of amendment 5.111 (text 2). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.20 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.21 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 1232 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5 in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 5 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 1232 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u83	Mr President, in Article 6, we have only tabled amendment 6,100, which is deleted, and the reasons for this can be easily deduced from the text of the article, although we must say that during the examination in the Commission an amendment was adopted at the request of the North League, which had proposed a similar amendment, partly transposed. What is important to us, however, is in some ways to take a step back and see what was the text fired by the House, which even provided for the repeal of paragraph 1-b of Article 276 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in its entirety. It is important to read that the quoted deleted in the Chamber provided that in the event of a violation of the prescriptions of the house arrests the judge could order the revocation of the measure and its replacement with the protective custody in prison, so we are talking about evasion. It is very serious that the House has approved the repeal of this paragraph. Fortunately, in the Committee on Merit in the Senate, the reason for making a substantial amendment to the text proposed by the House was lighted up, and at present the text dismissed by the Commission provides that, in the event of a breach of the requirements of house arrest, the judge shall arrange for the withdrawal of the measure and the replacement with the protective custody, but at least there is the following formula: Thus, practically, the original rule of Article 276, paragraph 1 -ter is reintroduced, but with the simple variation brought about by the formulation "unless the fact is of a minor magnitude," which can make us think of the subject who goes to the landing or who is dealing with the garden and who may possibly be sanctioned for the crime of evasion. In any case, however, we believe that the original wording was the best, because in our opinion it is always possible for the judge to make a different assessment that can open meshes in order not to apply protective custody.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u84	Mr President, Amendment 6.0.150 seeks to strengthen the constitutional requirement that the protection of the freedom of the person is a mandatory principle and therefore only for very serious and well-established reasons can a citizen be deprived of freedom. I have therefore proposed that the decision on the application of the precautionary measure should not be a single judge, but a college composed of three magistrates, perhaps making the decision unappellable for the prosecution with a view also to saving in economic terms, given what the machine of justice costs us, plus the burdens of bad justice, which, I recall, amount to 2% of GDP. Our President-in-Office of the Council would have EUR 32 billion available for structural reforms if only justice worked: this is the share of burdens that Italians have to bear for justice that does not work. In the debate that took place in the memory of Judge D'Ambrosio, some colleagues recalled that in recent months he felt the weight of Cagliari's suicide. Well, if there were three judges to decide on the custody of Cagliari, obviously this D'Ambrosio weight would not have had it and would have died in peace.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u87	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise in advance in an explanation of vote on Amendment 6,100, which is completely deleted from Rule 6 and which has already been explained by my colleague, Mrs Stefani. We want to delete this article because it eliminates the only possibility that a judge has of withdrawing house arrests in case of evasion, since even house arrests involve rules. In the event of evasion, in fact, the judge can no longer even order the revocation of the measure of the house arrest (which is in favour of the guilty) in order to impose the heavier one of the imprisonment. The judge cannot revoke this measure because we have so arranged, albeit in part improving with the forecast of minor violation. Sometimes, though, it is possible that we write standards without thinking about what will happen next. A convicted offender will be able to benefit from house arrests, completely disinterested in the constraints, continue to enter and leave the house without the judge being able to revoke this measure, more favorable to him, in order to give him protective custody in prison. The king would therefore continue to live normally, as if living in a hotel, going out in the morning, greeting the doorman, and returning in the evening. But does that seem possible to you? We understand that you want to free as many people as possible, but you have to provide for a minimum of rules, which are necessary even if you benefit from house arrests. We therefore believe that this article should be deleted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u88	Mr President, I am against Amendments 6,100 and 6.0,150. Amendment 6.0.151 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u89	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u90	Colleagues, before proceeding to the vote, I wanted to say that, since we have not been tabled on Rule 6 other amendments than the deleterious amendment 6,100 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci, we must now proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u93	PALMA, f. f. rapporteur. Mr President, I thought it was pointless to explain this, but, in the light of Senator Divina's speech (even in the form of an early explanation of vote), I would like to point out that the rule of which the deletion is intended to be done says in reality something quite different from what was proposed in this House. In particular, this rule states that, in the event of a breach of the requirements concerning house arrest or the prohibition of moving away from the home or other place of private residence, the precautionary measure of house arrest and its replacement by protective custody in prison shall be withdrawn, unless the fact is minor. This is tantamount to saying that, if some were to, as Senator Divine said, repeatedly violate the prescriptions, go out and return from home, spend the night out of the house if it pleases him, not being a minor fact, he would trigger the replacement of the measure of house arrest with that of custody in prison.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u94	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the continuation of Rule 6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the maintenance of Article 6. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u97	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, once in this Chamber I advised you to call a team of ghostbusters: today the ghost of Senator Saggese is wandering around; alternatively, Senator Sangalli has been voting ten times for the senator who should sit next to him. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u98	Senator Secretary Berger, would you like to withdraw your card? If there is a vote, there should be a card. (Senator Secretary Berger goes to the Chamber to verify.) We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.0.150. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 6.0.150, tabled by Senator Barani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. Amendment 6.0.151 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u99	Mr President, in asking to sign Amendment No 7,100, I would stress that we do not want to go through censors or bad guys, but we continue to see more and more rules of openness and direction in a good sense: but why should we give housekeepers again to people who have been convicted of evasion in the last five years? We would like to delete this rule, which will basically ensure that the benefits of the housekeepers can still be granted to persons convicted of evasion during the period of submission to a particular precautionary regime. We do not understand why: we have understood that prisons must be emptied, but a minimum of rigour and respect, even of that slight penalty received, takes us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u100	Mr President, unlike my colleague, Mr Divina, who said that he did not want to be the bad guy, I want to be the good guy, the good guy and the guarantee guy. The amendments I signed to Article 7 aim to give more powers to the third court than to the PM on the assessment of requests for protective custody. In particular, with amendment 7.0.0.150 it is expected - as previously in amendment 6.0.150, which has not been accepted and has already been rejected by the Senate - that there are the three judges, and this only to give autonomy to the third judge, a concept that I believe has been included in some law or draft law that has already passed from the Senate. I therefore invite the rapporteur and the Government to give the third judge - with the appropriate corrections of what has already been rejected by the Senate, therefore by the college - greater powers and autonomy than the PM, which, of course, like everyone else, can be mistaken. In fact, we see that the PMs are very often wrong about protective custody, since 50 percent of people are in prison waiting for trial, 40 percent of whom are found innocent. So, we're talking about 10,000 people. Since it is 10,000 people and we are not in the presence of an epidemic, I would ask colleagues to reflect and the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u101	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u102	I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u103	Mr President, I am against Amendment 7,100. I am in favour of amendment 7,200 if reworded as follows: In paragraph 5-a of Article 284 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the following shall be added after the words "for which it is to be carried out": "unless the court considers, on the basis of specific elements, that the fact is of a minor nature and that the precautionary requirements can be met by such a measure" (see paragraph 5a of Article 284 of the Code of Criminal Procedure). If my request is accepted, I now declare that I accept the amendment. I am in favour of amendment 7.0.200. Amendment 7.0.201 has been withdrawn. I am against Amendments 7.0.0, 150 and 7.0.0,151.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u104	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u107	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u108	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7,100, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. Does Senator Barani accept the rewording of amendment 7,200 proposed by the rapporteur? Barani (GAL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 7,200 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of amendment 7,200 (text 2), tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. I would point out that we did not vote for Article 7 because Amendment 7,200 was entirely a replacement for the article. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.0.200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 7.0.200 tabled by Senator Capacchione. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. Amendment 7.0.201 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u109	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 7.0.0.150. [[Applause from Senator Fornaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u110	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,0.151. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 7,0.151, tabled by Senator Barani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u111	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 8,101, to which I add my signature. With this amending proposal we call for the removal of those parts which make it more difficult for a judge to justify detention in prison. As set out in the text, the magistrates will have every interest in not imposing the precautionary measure in prison because they should at least elaborate and give an additional autonomous evaluation. So, basically, it's a harp, an addition of charges. We believe that the magistrates are basically like all civil servants: there are legal magistrates, obsessive and committed, but there are also less industrious, some even called, or idlers. If we were to make a behaviour more burdensome, which in this case would be to impose protective custody in prison, than the less costly one represented by the choice of house arrests, we believe that many magistrates would lean for the second regardless of the assessments of danger and so on, just because this operation would become by law less demanding and less costly for them. We therefore call for the deletion of paragraph 1 of Article 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u112	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 8,150, which refers to the three-judge college. Amendment 8,151 then recalls the principle of autonomy that the judge should follow in deciding whether or not to grant the requests of the prosecutor. In the current wording of the article, as in force, it seems that the judge does not have the right freedom and autonomy regarding the requests of the prosecutor. In fact, the current wording of paragraph 1 of Article 292 of the Code of Criminal Procedure - and I invite the rapporteur and Undersecretary Ferri to put the emphasis and attention on what is written - reads: At the request of the prosecutor, the judge shall act by order. On the other hand, we want to give him decision-making autonomy so that he is truly independent and third in relation to the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u113	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u114	I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u115	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u116	The Government also takes the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u117	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u120	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u121	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8,100 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. Amendment 8,150 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,151. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 8,151 tabled by Senator Barani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 8,101, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,102. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 8,102, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 8. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 9. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak. I would like to say that Amendment 10,202 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u122	Mr President, I would like to ask Senators Cucca and Barani to reword their amendments 10,200 and 10,201 to replace paragraphs 1 and 2 with the following: ==References====External links== Article 308 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure is replaced by the following: "Interdictive measures may not last longer than 12 months and shall lose their effect when the time limit laid down by the court in the order has elapsed. In any event, if they have been arranged for evidence, the court may order them to be renewed within the time limits laid down in the first part of this paragraph." If the amendments are reworded in the way I have just explained, I would like to express my support for them.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u123	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u124	Senator Cucca, I ask you to accept the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u125	I accept the reformulation of Senator Palma, and I believe that Senator Capacchione, following a previous agreement, also intends to sign my amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u126	Senator Capacchione, I ask you whether you intend to endorse Senator Cucca's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u127	Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the amendment that has just been reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u128	Senator Barani, I ask you whether you accept the rapporteur's proposal or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u129	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u130	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,200 (text 2), identical to Amendment 10,201 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u133	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u134	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 10,200 (text 2), tabled by Senators Cucca and Capacchione, identical to amendment 10,201 (text 2), tabled by Senators Caliendo and Barani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. Before we proceed to the vote on Article 10, for greater safety, since the rapporteur has proposed the rewording of paragraphs 1 and 2, I ask whether paragraph 3 remains unchanged. CASSON (PD). Mr President, paragraph 3 remains. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall then proceed to the vote on Rule 10 in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 10 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u135	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u136	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u137	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,150.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u140	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u141	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11,150, tabled by Senator Barani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u144	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I withdraw both Amendment No 11,150 and Amendment No 11,151. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should have said that a moment earlier. Or maybe I didn't see her, I'm sorry. The vote on Amendment 11,150 is ongoing. I declare the vote closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. Amendment 11,151 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,100 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 11,101 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 11,102. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 11,102, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci, up to the words "in the following text." I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. The remaining part of Amendment 11,102 and Amendments 11,103 and 11,104 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.105. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.105 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 11. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u145	I greet the pupils of the Istituto comprensivo (Virgilio 4) of Naples and the teachers who accompany them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u146	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u147	Mr President, with amendment 12.50 we want to give the opportunity to appeal against the decisions of the judge relating to protective measures only to defence and not to the prosecutor. In essence, it is a judge who, going against the accusations, revokes the precautionary measures after applying them, and the prosecutor cannot appeal against the judge's decision; if he did so it would be an incomprehensible therapeutic disorder. In fact, if you get the arrests because they are established by a judge but then in the review the defendant is exonerated, we wonder how an official of the State can bring an action against a judge who revokes the arrests, appeal and request the return to prison of the accused himself.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u148	Mr President, Amendment 12,200 deals with a delicate act such as the explanatory statement of the court's order in relation to personal freedom. With the first wording of the amendment, a time-diversification had been proposed, taking into account the type of crime. Now, even following the suggestions that came in the course of the general discussion, it was considered to diversify the filing of the order according to the systematic approach of the Code of Criminal Rite, and therefore to indicate that the drawing up of the statement of reasons, when it is particularly complex for the number of arrested or the seriousness of the charges, can be filed, specifying it and declaring it before, not later than the 45th day from that of the decision. That is the final wording of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u149	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u150	I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u151	Mr President, I am opposed to all the amendments tabled in Article 12, except on the 12,200, for which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u152	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u153	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.50.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u156	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u157	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 12.50 tabled by Senator Barani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12,100 tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 12,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 12,101, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci, up to the words "in the following way." I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. The remainder of Amendment 12,101 and Amendments 12,102 and 12,103 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12,200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12,200 tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12 in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 12 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u158	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 13,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u159	Mr President, I rise to explain Amendment 13.0.200. An article in the penitentiary order allows parents of minors in danger of life or suffering from serious illness a right of visit, obviously granted by the judge, always after careful verification. With this amendment, we intend to extend this possibility not only to children underage but also to children over the age of 18, as well as to their spouse or partner with a serious disability, pursuant to Article 3 (3) of Law No 104 of 1992. We think it is a measure of civilization that can be recognized in favour of the family members of people with disabilities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u160	Mr President, I am against amendments 13,100 to 13.0,100. The opinion was in favour of Amendments 13.0.101 and 13.0.200. I am still in favour of amendment 13.0.201, provided that it is reworded as follows: 13-a. (Amendments to Legislative Decree no. 109 of 23 February 2006) 1. The following amendments are made to Legislative Decree no. 109 of 23 February 2006: (a) Article 2 (1) (q) before the words "the repeated, serious" are pre-conditions: "except as provided by the letter q-a )." (b) in Article 2, paragraph 1, after point (q), the following shall be inserted: " q-a ) failure to comply with the time limits laid down in Articles 309, paragraph 10, and 311, paragraph 5-a, of the Code of Criminal Procedure;'; (c) in Article 12 (1) (e), after the words: "and (f) ', the following shall be inserted: "and q-a )'is inserted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u161	Senator Barani, do you accept this reformulation? Barani (GAL). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u162	Mr President, I am against Amendments 13,100, 13,101, 13,102, 13,103 and 13.0,100 and I am against Amendments 13.0,101 and 13.0,200. On the other hand, with regard to Amendment 13.0.201, I note the rewording proposed by the rapporteur. However, the Government is returning to the Chamber because it considers that this matter is not relevant to the draft law as it intervenes on the legislation concerning disciplinary offences and should therefore be addressed in another text. Therefore, the Government does not give a favourable opinion, it goes back to the House and points out this fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u163	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u166	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u167	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 13,100, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 13,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 13,101, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci, up to the words "in" with the following text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. The remaining part of Amendment 13,101 and Amendments 13,102 and 13,103 are therefore excluded. Amendment 13,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 13. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.0.100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 13.0.100, tabled by Senators Stefani and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.0.101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 13.0.101, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.0.200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 13.0.200, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.0.201 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of amendment 13.0.201 (text 2), tabled by Senators Caliendo and Barani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 14. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 1232, 380, 944 and 1290
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u170	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, fellow senators... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u171	Colleagues, please, Senator Susta always intervenes first and is forced to speak with this buzz. Whoever moves away may do so in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u172	Sunta (SPI). It is the fate of the little ones, Mr President, but I thank you for this call. As I said, some of the arguments that would have been at the heart of my speech in the explanation of vote were advanced during the arguments against the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, in that sort of positive filibustering that there was at the beginning also to gain some time because some of our colleagues were absent. I believe that what we are voting on today is an important measure, although I cannot fail to point out once again that we are in the presence of the fourth vote on a measure relating to the call of the European Union and the President of the Republic on the need for rules that lead us to resort to imprisonment, both in terms of custody and with regard to the execution of the sentence, when it is really necessary. 18.56 (Susta follow). I therefore think that this measure deserves the support not only of Civic Choice but also of the vast majority of the Senate, because it is a measure of legal civilization that aligns us with the major democracies, the truly liberal states where the penalty must serve to reintegrate. In this case, with regard to custody, I note that this should not be an instrument to easily obtain, against the law, against the spirit of the Constitution, the evidence in order to be able then to condemn. So it is a positive leap in quality that we make by better modifying the text that comes from the House and that limits the powers of the judge to resort to protective custody for the reasons I have just said. I therefore believe that everything that has been introduced to improve on the text of the Chamber, and precisely the spirit of the norm itself, is to be shared, such as the attention that is given to the person who is at the moment accused in terms of elements in order to be able to consider him a person worthy of all attention in respect of the principle by which a person is innocent until a final judgment has taken place. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u173	Senator Susta, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u174	Colleagues, I would ask both those who sit in government benches and senators to lower their voices. Sunta (SPI). Madam President, I should like to thank you and start by finishing. It is a positive measure because, in any case, it puts us in a position to respond to an emergency that exists, but not with instruments such as the indult, which led us immediately to the summit of European statistics such as the country with the least imprisonment also in terms of protective custody, but that then, progressively, over the course of two years, has made us fall back among the taillights. On the other hand, a different path has been chosen, a path consistent with the best decisions of Parliament for forty years now. The use of prison in terms of conviction or in terms of protective custody, such as those we are facing today, is an extreme ratio used for the most serious crimes, when there is a real social danger, when there are no alternative instruments in the face of repeated negative behaviors. I believe that these are the arguments that we must put at the root of our vote in favour, far beyond the immediate need to reduce prison overcrowding. This problem is and must be solved by measures, some of which have already been approved in recent times, which go in the direction of a different conception of the penalty, a different way of atonement for it and a different application of the institution of protective custody, which we are providing today. Of course, it would have been preferable if at the beginning of this legislature and of the same mandate with which the Letta Government was born a more rational and more coherent intervention had been made that looked at aspects of prison building, aspects of protective custody and alternative measures to prison, aspects of decriminalization measures, perhaps considering a targeted measure of amnesty. But that's it. Today, for the fourth time, however, we take a positive step on this issue, so the measure deserves our vote in favour. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u177	IN MAY (PI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Senators, Mr Senators, Mr Senator, the text we are about to vote on is essentially aimed, as we all know, at limiting the scope of detention in prison. It is a mini-reform that deals with one of the most sensitive issues in democracy, namely the limitation, until its deprivation, of personal freedom, already done in itself grave, but made even more hateful when imposed in the absence of a final judgment, that is, without an assessment of the criminal liability of the person subject to the measure. A reform, therefore, which has a dual purpose: firstly, to return to considering the adoption of precautionary measures as an extreme ratio; secondly, and at the same time, to significantly reduce prison overcrowding. It is not worth mentioning here the references to which we have been subjected both by the European Union and by the President of the Republic. I am aware of the importance of the adoption of this measure in order to deflation of the prison crowd, but I believe that the measure in the vote represents above all a necessary cultural change that finally brings the criminal penalty to its natural borders, which are those of the extrema ratio, while respecting the rights of the offended people. He rarely remembers that at least one third of the more than 60,000 prisoners in our prisons are awaiting trial. This fact is even more serious if we think that these are people who, precisely because they have not yet been judged, can only possibly be condemned, and who may not even be put to trial. In other words, they are persons with whom, by Constitution, the presumption of innocence exists: presumed innocents who share the destiny of condemned people and those who are condemned. That's why I was talking about cultural change: because all too often up to now the spirit of the norm governing protective custody has been interpreted by the magistrates as a sort of early imprisonment or as a solicitation to awaken memory or to induce a confession or a call incorreity. All reasons are completely unrelated to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure which, if properly applied, would not even need to be rewritten. This measure therefore represents a reform of a culture based on full respect for the constitutional principle of the presumption of not guilty and restores the nature of extreme remedy to preventive imprisonment, respecting the right point of balance between the fundamental right of individual freedom and the requirements of justice and protection of the community, without leaving too much margin to the discretion of the judge called to justify the reasons that induce him to adopt the precautionary measures. With these considerations, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Per l'Italia Group. In conclusion, I cannot fail to recall that in order to solve the problem of prison overcrowding, to minimize the wing with which freedom is taken away from an alleged innocent subject until definitive condemnation, to ensure the certainty of the sentence once imposed, to reduce the excessive duration of the trials and to remedy the thousand dysfunctions that today afflict the judicial system need structural interventions on justice. At last, therefore, we need a genuine reform of criminal and civil justice that will finally take us away from the repressions of the internal and international community. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u180	Barani (GAL). Madam President, undersecretary Ferri, ladies and gentlemen, this measure - which, among other things, transposes a proposal for a law tabled by myself several months ago, aimed at restricting the use of protective custody in prison - cannot but be welcomed by the Group of Great Autonomous States and Freedoms and, in particular, by a Craxian socialist like me, with a strong guaranteeing vocation. All those measures that tend to safeguard the most precious good for a man, his freedom, are always welcome. To think that 50 percent of inmates awaiting trial are then recognized as innocent gives the right measure of a rampant phenomenon, of an epidemic that is no longer tolerable. Here we are talking about people, lives, families destroyed for even serious accusing facilities - enough to justify preventive imprisonment - which then turn out to be unfounded. Without prejudice to the obvious need for the repression of crimes, is it acceptable, Mr Undersecretary, for such situations to continue? You, among other things, are the son of a great magistrate - Enrico Ferri - who never dreamed of incarcerating people for no good reason: I know that his father as a praetor worked until late at night to issue sentences to free those who had been accused and imprisoned unjustly. This is how it is necessary to work: to be truly third parties and to make the interest of justice. The same reasons for requests for protective custody need to be updated in order to keep pace with the times. Let me explain better: in the case, for example, of the danger of escape of the person under investigation, with the technological means available today it is plausible to carry out a constant and punctual verification of the movements of that subject, without it being necessary, as it used to be, to have limited measures of personal freedom. This example is only to represent how the technological progress of each society must also correspond to social progress in order to protect the person, on the one hand, and the whole community, on the other. What is the difference between those who were unjustly imprisoned during the fascist and Nazi period in Auschwitz and those who, after being imprisoned and having seen their families destroyed and their jobs destroyed, are found innocent? In both cases, they are victims of an unparalleled judicial assault. The European Court of Human Rights will condemn us on 28 May to pay hundreds of millions because we do not have the courage to make structural reforms to our judicial system. The clarification included in the measure in question about the situations of concrete and current danger that may lead the judge to arrange custody represents a step forward for justice worthy of that name: if the law must be certain, it is also true that it must be as clear as possible, in compliance with the principle of equality before the law and the Constitution. It is unthinkable that the choice of limiting the freedom of an individual may be entrusted to the discretionary assessment of a judge, which for obvious reasons is different from that of another, so that a person subject to actual investigation may or may not be subject to certain measures depending on whether he is judged by a judge or another, or whether he belongs to Democratic Magistrate or to another aggregation of judges. The interpretation of the facts and of all the circumstances of the case must start from firmly principles and find conclusion on the basis of these same principles, which must always apply to everyone and limit the media overexposition of certain pm that you want to show, they want to appear, perhaps for their personal and family frustrations, and that obviously they are not interested in the common delinquent, which is really a social problem, but of the powerful on duty and - why not? - of the local administrator that allows them to appear. Another important forecast of the measure that we are about to vote on, and on which we will vote in favour, is the clear intention to reaffirm the function of the third party, that is, the judge, compared with that of the PM, on the requests for the application of restrictive measures made by the latter. Is it possible to oppose the provision for the judge to assess, on his own, any need for protective custody? Absolutely not. It is serious, in my opinion, that this has not always been the case and that there is a risk that the third party could flatten itself to the positions of the prosecution. That at the basis of the text under discussion is therefore a choice in a guaranteeing sense, which as a reformist I fully share and, as a socialist, I realize how the Divine Senator intended to intervene on the basis of an acclaimed justiceism, which in a certain period of the political life of the country allowed the League to land in Parliament on the ruins of those forces that first made Italy and then made it great. However, the degeneration of certain judicial practices is, unfortunately, only experienced in the first person, and in any case very close. These are things that I do not wish anyone, much less Senator Divine and much less the worst enemy, because if you do not oppose certain twists and foment them for ideological reasons, one day these could indiscriminately strike anyone after hitting so many others, without remaining anyone to oppose them. Beautiful is Bertolt Brecht's aphorism about Nazi Fascism. That said, and I should like to conclude, Madam President, as I have been able to say on several occasions in this House when adopting measures relating to the area of justice, whether of parliamentary or governmental initiative, even in this case we could do better. The protection of the freedom of the person is a constitutional principle that is indispensable, if not for very serious and established reasons. From this point of view, with some amendments I had proposed to further increase the autonomy of the judge as a third party and as a guarantee, both for the prosecution and for the defence; I had also proposed that to decide on the applications for precautionary measures could be not only a judge, but a college composed of three magistrates, perhaps making the decision for the prosecution unappellable. This is also in terms of savings in economic terms, given the cost of the justice machine, plus the burdens of bad justice, quantified (not by me, but by experts) in a figure equal to 2% of GDP, that is, in more than 30 billion euros that Italian citizens obviously have to pay with taxes and because of which we do not have the possibility to make structural interventions. That is why we now have 13% unemployed and 42.7% youth unemployment. We also owe it to bad justice; perhaps, especially to bad justice. Of course, and I regret this, these proposals have not been followed up. For the umpteenth time, therefore, the Group to which I belong, Grandi Autonomie e Libertà, will vote in favour of a measure certainly fair, but regretting how much more could have been done and that, instead, as always happens when intervening in the field of justice, has preferred to ignore, also because many parliamentarians and senators of the majority are under the blackmail of Democratic Magistracy. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u183	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again here in this House we are talking about yet another measure which seeks to solve the now exhausting problem, which we are talking about every day in this House, of the overcrowding of prisons. Let us also remember that in Italy the problems, when they arrive in this House, are almost always incanculated on average. The problem of overcrowding in prisons is not a problem that needs to be solved, as we are trying to do now, with these we continue to call tampon measures. It is a problem that had to be tackled, in a truly systematic way, some time ago, because the only way to try to solve the long-standing issue of an overabundance of prisoners compared to prison capacity was to build new prisons. On the other hand, we find ourselves making a reasoning and an operation exactly contrary to what was to happen upstream. We had to determine the number and size of prisons depending on the number of prisoners and not, at this point, determine the number of prisoners depending on the size of prisons. If at present prisons can accommodate 45,000-47,000 people, we do not understand why we must necessarily release another 20,000. This is a serious problem in Italy. It is a very serious problem that we have not even developed systems for building new prisons. Programs had begun, and then, as always happens in this country, they were abandoned. You start and then you abandon, and you don't carry out a program consistently to the end. Today we find ourselves with the absence of places within these prisons and with a problem, indeed, also of the dignity of the people who have to live in them. But we in the North League continue to say that it is absurd to have to solve a problem like this by adopting, as we are doing now, a continuous myriad of small measures. I would remind you that, from the beginning of the parliamentary term to the present day, we have been discussing this issue in the Justice Committee for most of the time. We continually adopt these measures and we are afraid to arrive, probably, at the beginning of the effects of the Torreggiani judgment, to probably have to adopt a clemential measure. And I doubt that, between the Members present in this House and those in the House of Members, there is the will of all to arrive at an amnesty or an indult. There is a sentence, which is well known, but we know very well that, for our fellow citizens, hearing about amnesty and indult, especially at this time, will be absolutely unacceptable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And neither will the good intentions and the beautiful way of exposing them by President Renzi succeed in convincing our people. We now have yet another measure that provides for more or less forms of liberation or non-incarceration of many criminals. I am here to remind all my colleagues of what we have done, because in July of last year we spoke about the institution of suspension of the sentence, then we came to talk about the extension of the application of the institution of house arrests, until we included in that measure a whole series of depenalizations. In the same measure that is being discussed today in the House, we have begun to talk about the testing institute: we are telling all those who follow our work here in Parliament that there are such penalty discounts for which, as far as early release is concerned, we are going from 45 to 75 days every 6 months, even with a calculation with retroactive effect to 2010. We come to say that to the guilty of a crime can be applied the so-called test: but how do we explain it to the person offended by the crime, to those who have suffered it, to those who are victims and you see that criminal sentenced to house arrest - that then, however limiting it may be to stay at home, you will understand me if I say that it is always better than being inside a cell - or to follow the reeducational path of testing, that can even lead to the extinction of the crime? We can say that, counting early release in what should have been the penalty, one finds himself being released first. This is incomprehensible to all people, at a time when - just read the newspapers - we talk about continuous robberies and robberies in the apartment. These are the problems. We can stay here and talk about the electoral law, our Senate and the fate that it will have, but then, in the end, what matters to the people who are at home really seeing what we are doing is getting to the end of the month, living in a quiet country, being able to do their expenses and their holidays, following their children, paying their preschool fees and seeing criminals punished. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And that is what we are not doing: the feeling of those who are criminals and who are outside of this Chamber is that so much, here in Italy, for a certain crime and for a certain penalty you can find some way to get ahead, sooner or later a measure containing a benefit eventually comes. That is not the message we need to pass on. We at the North League are not executed, as we may be accused of being. We are just saying that in a society like ours, in a moment of economic crisis, which - let us remember - becomes social, if certainties are removed from families and people, we must give a feeling of rigour. We must convey a feeling of rigour in our work and trials, so that we know, for example, that those who commit a crime go to jail and are punished as planned. Or at least we have to show that the process is being conducted over an ordinary period of time, to be considered reasonable. In Italy this is not happening: if one today arrives in a court, he finds himself with the hearings of the cases postponed to absurd and incomprehensible times. The citizen wonders, but where is justice? And the question arises spontaneously: where is politics? What we need to do is not get lost in solving the single problem that appears to be an emergency. Rather, we must look at everything from a truly global, systematic and general perspective in order to understand what we want to do with this country. We in the North League will continue this battle, which we will do in this House and outside, and will continue to insist on maintaining rigour and great seriousness in what we do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u186	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, already this morning in the general debate I was able to explain the reasons why my Group will vote in favour of this measure. We, contrary to what Senator Stefani has just said, not only consider this measure a step forward, a positive step, but, if we have to say it all, we consider it a little'shy compared to the situation existing in our country, especially compared to what has happened in recent years. We are talking about a measure concerning protective custody, but in fact the political debate over the last few months on all the issues of justice, which we have repeatedly addressed in this House, alludes to a fundamental problem with which we must measure ourselves: what has been justice over the last 20 years. Among other things - I say this in a somewhat polemic way towards colleagues of the League - sometimes, listening to them, it would seem that they have been in opposition for twenty years. Instead, as I understand that they have ruled for a long time and that many of the measures that have been taken over these years also bear their signature, perhaps they should reason a little more on this element. In any case, we think that the policies that have been in Italy on the subject of justice, and which have also caused prison overcrowding over the past few years, have been profoundly wrong. I have said this many times in this House and I have said it again this morning: there has been one-way justice, which has been very tolerant, very guaranteeing, unable to put in place a strong and intransigent response when it comes to striking the strongest, the most powerful, the least weak. On the contrary, there has been a particularly strong and particularly arrogant justice against the weakest: exactly the opposite of what should happen. A socialist politician of many years ago and of great value, Pietro Nenni, said that Italy is a strong Republic with the weak and weak with the strong. Here, the justice in these years has been this: it guarantees with Previti, with white collars, with the condemned for fraud and corruption. There is not even one in custody of persons who have such convictions and who have committed such crimes. On the other hand, there is a particularly intolerant and justiceist justice - excuse me the pun - with relapses, with immigrants, with the addicts, with those who have been subject to the criminal laws of the Bossi-Fini, the Fini-Giovanardi, the Cirielli. These are the prisoners who flock under protective custody to our prisons, these are the reasons for the overcrowding: thousands of people detained in Italian prisons, many of them for crimes of low social danger. However, as we have been saying for a long time: but what do you think can happen if a convicted person for a low-risk social crime enters an Italian prison and meets a mob boss rather than a sentenced person for many other reasons? What do you think will result in a situation like this, if not inevitably a rise? So the first time you go into prison for committing a minor crime, for dealing two grams of hashish, and as you go, inevitably, you put on a real criminal career, if I can call it that. We should have done the opposite of what has been done in recent years; we should have hit the real crime and should have had much more attitude towards subjects such as immigrants, drug addicts, those that criminal laws have affected over the years. And we've used some tools. Abusing it. The use of protective custody has been an abuse in our country. For this reason, 40% of prisoners today - it has already been mentioned, but we are well aware of the data - are in custody; many of them are even awaiting first-degree judgment. All statistics show, beyond the excellent cases, that many of these people will be acquitted. Then it is clear that there is something that does not work in the mechanism of Italian justice, and it is equally evident that it would be wise and fair if the Government, in addition to talking about electoral and constitutional reforms, also spoke of the need to put in place a true reform of justice, that breaks the mechanisms that have been determined over the last few years and that have been the consequence of the prevalence of a perverse ideology. [[Ironic applause from Senator Candiani]] The Members who applaud me are spared the applause, because it was they who, over the course of these years, made useless security packages that were launched to satisfy the country's belly. [[Comments of Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u187	Senator Candiani, please do not interrupt and do nothing in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u188	Senator De Cristofaro, please speak to everyone. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we wanted to cover up the economic and social crisis that the parties that ruled Italy over the past few years have denied. It's too easy to do this! It is too easy to hide the social and economic crisis, misruling the country (as it has been done), and throw some easy security package to the public. I believe that we must do exactly the opposite of what has been said over the years. For this reason, I believe that this measure, even if it is timid and insufficient, represents at least one step forward. We will therefore vote in favour with great conviction, hoping that in the coming months we will be able to do even better than has already been done in this area. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group. Ironic applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u191	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the substance of this measure, which is protective custody. We are not talking about people who are guilty of something and therefore rightly have to remain in prison; we are talking about that mystery represented by protective custody, that is, a means by which a person is subjected to torture of the deprivation of freedom to prove in the future whether he actually deserved to be deprived of it. That person, therefore, is serving a sentence that, however the trial ends, has already massacred her as a man, as a father, as a mother or as a member of civil society, because she will keep forever the stamp, the label, of having been in jail. Just examine the statistics to understand what happens to Italian citizens of every social background (rich, poor, politicians or administrators): they are taken and thrown into prison, sometimes for months and sometimes even for years, and then get to the trial and know that you are wrong! I call on my fellow Members to pay attention to the fact that this is not only the case when a crime has been committed: if there is a dead person or a robbery, there can be a judicial error, and so the wrong person is arrested. I, however, am talking about the tens, indeed the hundreds of cases in which the accusatory facility through which a person is put in prison, in the end, turns out to be unfounded; therefore, the person is acquitted because the fact does not constitute a crime. There are cases of people who have been in prison for years who were then told that what they were accused of was simply not a crime, illegal behaviour. Thinking about white collars or politics, I have repeatedly mentioned in this House my unfortunate 90 Christian Democrats in the 1992-1994 legislature, who were reached by a guarantee notice, and some of whom took years in prison (I think Mannino): 90% of those people concluded the judicial affair, not with the prescription, but with the acquittal on the substance or the dismissal of the crime that was unfounded. So, ladies and gentlemen, that is what we are talking about. I agree with the Senators of the Lega Nord Group that, when a person is accused of something in the name of the Italian people, in contradiction between defence and accusation, and is condemned, he must remain in prison: there would be no more! Our problem is that we do the opposite, that is, first we put people in prison, even for years, and then, once condemned, maybe we release them because there is amnesty or indult, or because prisons are full or because - and I quickly come to the merit of the measure - we realize that protective custody is useless. I am thinking, in fact, of a crime that does not involve imprisonment even with conviction. But it's been done before. Then the judge must assess - I also remind you briefly why the New Right Centre votes in favour of these manoeuvres - the concreteness and topicality of the danger, in order to decide whether or not to keep a person in prison. Secondly, the personality of the suspect must be assessed. We have seen people of integrity, who have been entrepreneurs all their lives, who, after returning from abroad, have been constituted and have gone to the magistrate to explain their reasons, have been slapped in jail for a year - I am referring to a recent case of which all the newspapers have spoken - except then to be sorry because it was a judicial error. Therefore, we need the concreteness and topicality of the danger; we need to evaluate the personality of the defendant who puts me in prison and we also need the prognostic evaluation. As a result of the judgment it must not happen that in the end, after having kept a person in prison for months, you arrive at a sentence for which the prison sentence is not provided. Finally, there is to be considered the principle of residuality, which seems to me absolutely reasonable: protective custody if there are no other coercive or interdictive measures more appropriate than the gravity of the fact that it is contested. It seems to me that on this principle - I say this to my colleagues in the League, but also to those of other groups - there can be not a broad convergence, but unanimity. I believe I now have the experience to say that justiceists or guarantors, in words and in dialectic, live outside tragedies of this kind. But when someone, guaranteed or executed, is touched personally, or to be touched is a family member, a loved one, by the phenomenon of preventive imprisonment and at five in the morning is taken and put in prison, without even knowing the reason - in most cases, in the end, you do not actually understand why you were put in prison - at that moment you all found yourself guaranteed. Everyone discovers that precautionary imprisonment is an infamy; one does not understand why one should be held in jail when one does not even understand whether a crime has been committed or whether or not guilt has been proven. For God's sake, it is evident that there are cases in which protective custody is absolutely indispensable for justified reasons: if one has committed a massacre or has hammered a person on the street or is a hardened robber, in the presence of detention requirements in prison pending trial, protective custody is necessary. However, despite all attempts to reform this institution, the use by some magistrates and some prosecutors of this instrument is totally eccentric in relation to the result to be achieved. Therefore, we in the New Right Centre will vote with conviction on the measure in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u192	I should like to inform the House that, given the time and having to conclude the sitting at 8 p.m., in view of the numerous speeches at the end of the sitting, explanations of vote will continue in the afternoon sitting tomorrow. The first to intervene will be Senator Buccarella, whom we have already warned and whom we thank for the availability. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u195	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to stress in this speech that we are still waiting for the Ministers for Economic Development, Justice, Labour and Social Policy to respond to Question 3-00251 of 19 July 2013. This is an act that involves the management of the managing director of ENI, Paolo Scaroni, and the subsidiary SAIPEM, made necessary last year following the sinking in the Atlantic Ocean of the platform SAIPEM Perro Negro 6, one of the 6 offshore ones of SAIPEM used for the realization of oil plants, often involved in major accidents, cost also numerous human lives. I remember - for example - the three deaths and a missing one, in 2008, on the SAIPEM 7000 platform, engaged in the construction of the Algerian pipeline Medgaz, for which Scaroni - always him - is investigated for a bribe of 197 million euros on a contract of 11 billion. It is not our political ferocity towards Scaroni, useless, among other things, since with the recent sentence to three years in prison and with the ban for five years from public offices we hope it will finally be removed from public office. Since 1996, however, "fossil coach" thanks to the transversal policy of this nation, has in franchising the national energy management, first with the appointment to ENEL, then with the appointment in 2006 to the ENI, lasting until today despite already in 1996, of fresh appointment, it stands out with a nice plea of a year and four months for corruption. With this question we try to understand if in ENI and SAIPEM are applied the strict international protocols of control for the safety of the platforms or if we are in front of one of the greatest escapes and corruptions in the history of the Italian navigation, since two former business executives SAIPEM, Giulio Melegari, in charge of the underwater sector, and Gianni Franzoni, expert of safety norms at sea, suddenly, after an internal letter sent to Paolo Scaroni, first they were moved of task and then sent home without explanation. The fault of these two gentlemen? Their fault is simple: they informed Scaroni that in SAIPEM they employ unqualified personnel for the ultra-specialistic activities of offshore and for those ultra-technical diving, probably to pay less, and they warned that they would not put the signature - and in fact did not put it - to guarantee the certifications that the company presented. So the question we ask ministers, new and old, is now that Scaroni has become uncomfortable for a company like ENI, will my doubts finally be clarified? I think it would be appropriate for the Ministers who have been asked to give them some answers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u198	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, Senators, I would like to say that I have tabled a question (the 4-01666) concerning the depletion of the Albano lake's water basin and, more generally, the lowering of the groundwater of the entire Lazio volcano. There are associations representing thousands of citizens, such as the association "Save Lake Albano" which for years denounce this state and invoke a series of interventions by the institutions that, on the other hand, are fugitive. We are talking, in particular, about the lack of control over the abusive wells, the lack of control of direct captures, of insufficient water requirements, but also of pollution of the groundwater throughout the territory, which suffers from the presence of arsenic water, therefore dangerous to health. The resolutions and reports of the Lazio Region are gruesome, but the Region does not intervene. The funding also provided by the Ministry of the Environment is either insufficient or is used inefficiently and ineffectively. We are talking about 21 million liters of evaporated water and a drop in Lake Albano even five meters in ten years: a completely unsustainable situation. We are also talking about millions of citizens living in this situation, areas under special protection and sites of Community interest, which are therefore very particular, which also have a certain tourist value, but which we are losing out on in this way. As you know, Castelgandolfo is also the seat of the Pontiff's summer residence to which the same association "Save Lake Albano" sent a heartfelt appeal that unfortunately did not get an answer. We often talk about the revival of tourism and the crisis, but our heritage and the preservation of the territory are sometimes overclassed by games of interest such as those related to incinerators. For a long time in fact the construction of an incinerator that would consume (and could consume) thousands of liters of water in the same territory has remained pending. This issue is also the subject of a question. I therefore call for my question to be put on the agenda for the work of this House to stop this disaster as soon as possible and finally to defend the environment in which we live. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u201	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, 6 April marks the fifth anniversary of the Eagle earthquake: 309 deaths, more than 1,500 injured and almost 80,000 displaced. Sad numbers that can never be forgotten. Those who have never been to L'Aquila might perhaps easily think that much of the city is rebuilt, but five years of unfulfilled promises have passed, with sobbing reconstruction operations and insufficient transparency in the management of the funds. With this intervention I want to make an official request to Prime Minister Renzi and his Government: proclaim April 6 day of national mourning to commemorate those 309 innocent souls who, after 3.32 a.m. of that terrible night, while someone else abandoned themselves to contemptuous and cynical laughter, were leaving us. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u202	Senator, wait, this isn't about you. I would ask the House, please, for a moment of attention and not to raise the voice too much. Excuse me, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u203	BLUNDO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President, that is the least. This morning I also sent the mayor Cialente a similar request as far as his competence is concerned. I believed then, and still believe, that this is an act due to the still alive pain of those who have seen loved ones and friends torn from their lives forever. This attention has been lacking, as has the failure to listen to the territory and to respect the proposals of the citizens. Instead, there has been a lack of time and partiality in the interventions and a widespread illegality in the reconstruction operations in this five-year period, which has led to the loss of hope and is causing the depopulation of the territory. Shadow areas have also been confirmed by the judicial investigations that involve many former municipal administrators, and that at the end of last year had forced the mayor Cialente to resign, and then return resoundingly to his steps, make a comfortable reshuffle and save the image with the insertion of a former magistrate in Junta. Document XXII No 5, which aims to establish the Commission of Inquiry into the problems related to the reconstruction of the territories affected by seismic events, in order to shed light on the work of governments and local public administrations in the management of funds and in the reconstruction phase, has however inexplicably stopped in the Environment Commission, after it was assigned on 15 May 2013. Eleven months have passed, several requests have already been made at the Conference of Leaders to speed up the process, one year later. I take advantage of this speech, as well as to ask for the day of national mourning, to remind the Presidency of the Senate, on the basis of Rule 162 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, to set this mandatory deadline by which the Environment Commission must report to the Assembly on the proposal assigned to it, I repeat, from 15 May 2013. Honest eagles have and had rights. Their Calvary needs urgent answers and respect, and it is precisely on the occasion of this imminent anniversary that the institutions must demonstrate with seriousness and concreteness their closeness to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u204	Of course, we are applying the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u207	BERTOROTTA (M5S). For me civitas catanensium sublimatur a Christo. Thus the sign let rot in the second most important Roman amphitheatre in the world reads: "By my hand the city is raised to heaven by Christ." With these words, Sant'Agata intended to guarantee its protection to the city of Catania from possible natural disasters, such as the lava eruption of 1669: an eruption that swallowed centuries of history and domination, tangible in its precious architectures and numerous stratifications. But in the face of the demeaning and ominous bureaucracy of public institutions, in the face of ecclesiastical nefariousness, in the face of incivility and carelessness towards the immense artistic, historical and cultural patrimony present in our country, God is also forced to surrender. For more than two hundred years, the Roman amphitheatre, built under Emperor Hadrian, has been an abusive sewer dump of the houses adjacent to it: the walls, completely clogged by the rivers, exude live waterfalls of highly corrosive slime that has severely damaged the monument and negatively affected its structural stability. The amphitheatre is also a collection of white waters that, together with the sewage drains, have corroded the steel foundations that support the department of jurisprudence of the University of Catania, inserted without restraint in the archaeological park. The structure is so rusty that, with the slightest oscillation or increase in the weight of the buildings above and the water itself, it is ready to collapse, endangering the lives of students and staff, and the inevitable destruction of the amphitheatre itself. To aggravate the abusive scenery, in terms of the protection and enhancement of our historical, artistic and cultural heritage, intervenes the harmful evidence of abusive building that the rectorate of the church of San Biagio has sown directly involving the monument. Unfortunately, with my intervention, I denounce the very high possibility of imminent collapse of the amphitheatre, which I repeat is among the most important in the world and with inestimable artistic and cultural value. We can't stand still, we can't wait for some tragedy without saying "ve" we said. We have activated the archaeological museum: we hope that the necessary, urgent and necessary interventions will be made, so that what could be one of the most important national tourist attractions does not become a bloody theatre. We have an obligation, moral and institutional, to safeguard this amphitheatre, whose attraction would increase the economy of the territory, as well as offering employment opportunities for young people and those working. I urge the Catalan senators not to remain indifferent in the face of this serious situation, an expression of the lewdness and menephregism of local and regional politicians as well as of the superintendence. The 5 Star Movement has always declared war open to anyone who has dared to deprive future generations of the legacy neglected by our ancestors, therefore it falls on the field invoking also the souls of gladiators, if necessary, for this battle. We have an institutional and moral duty to defend and save the Roman amphitheatre of Catania: surely the guilty will not be left unpunished. We respect culture! Let's respect life! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u210	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, it was March 31, 1984 when Renata Fonte was murdered in front of the front door of her home with three gunshots. Renata was a town in Nardò, a town in the province of Lecce, engaged in political life; she was a teacher, a mother of two girls and always an activist in the fight against crime. However, Renata Fonte's victory in the 1982 municipal elections marked the beginning of an inauspicious path, which ended in the worst possible way. Renata, even before becoming city councilman for the culture of Nardò, had begun a struggle for the natural beauties of her territory, opposing with all the strength to the lottification of Porto Selvaggio, one of the most beautiful oasis of Salento. Renata had fought to prevent the pouring of cement on Porto Selvaggio; she had fought to prevent the danger that the crystal clear sea and the uncontaminated flora would give way to an inglorious race for contracts. In the face of attempts to usurp territory, Renata said "No". And that denial thundered as a real condemnation of death, because in the senseless logics of the Mafia those who become uncomfortable must be reset, must be eliminated. Renata Fonte was the first woman involved in a Mafia murder in Salento. After death, the whole story was silenced and it comes to wonder if that momentary silence was necessary to hide the mafia infiltrations present in politics, not only local. Only in the last few years has it started to talk about Renata Fonte: the municipal administration has dedicated a square and a stele to her memory. Now Porto Selvaggio is a natural park, sheltered from profit, but the fact that the love for legality must be paid with life remains absurd. The state must listen to those who oppose, every day, the mad impositions, violence and coercions of the mafia systems. The State is under an obligation to intervene before new deaths are mourned. I am referring, in particular, to Judge Di Matteo, who continues to be denied the jammer, despite the constant reminders that have taken place in this House too. We don't need new roads or commemorative monuments, we don't want other heroes unjustly killed, no other victims have to be remembered because of the mob. The State must assure us that there will be no other Renata Fonte, others Paolo Borsellino, others Giovanni Falcone, others. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u213	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, video-lotteries are an evolution of slot machines that is depopulating. There are over 51,000, compared to the inhabitants are three times as many as in the United States. They stay in rooms without windows, where you lose the sense of time and contact with reality. They work on banknotes and a game lasts a few seconds. It is probably the equipment that poses the greatest risk of pathological dependence. Real golden-egged chickens. Among the slot machines they represent only 12 percent, but they collect almost half of the games. Only one collects an average of 420,000 euros a year, 5 times more than a slot machine. A beacon of the television broadcast "Le lene" has been set on these devices. Not RAI, not public service. In the March 19 episode, Nadia Toffa and Marco Fubini denounced the conflict of interest for which the data on the games are not collected directly by the State, but by the dealers themselves. The Customs and Monopolies Agency, which had previously admitted not to have the data in real time, denied the possibility of scams, since the software is by law managed by the dealers, but is controlled and certified by SOGEI, a computer company controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and by the same Agency of Customs and Monopolies. But what prevents the State from collecting this data directly? Why did you want this law? Why are private individuals, who already benefit from public health, allowed to directly manage data on collections? Why hasn't the Agency's website published data on the sums played since November 2012? How much can we trust in the controls of SOGEI and the Customs and Monopolies Agency? Maybe how much we trusted Tino and Tagliaferri executives, convicted of erotic damage for failing to control the slot machine scandal? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We have said this to Mr Le lene, in the hope that the control will be fully in the hands of the public body with the direct participation of citizens and taxpayers. But the interview, March 26, didn't go on because of the par condicio and this... [[Call the president back.]] Madam President, allow me a moment. And this seems to us a mockery because the AGCOM data of the last period show that the 5 Star Movement on RAI networks had less than 8% space. The service of "Le Iene" is still available on the website and on the Beppegrillo.it blog and denounces another unfortunate hypothesis. According to Accredia, the only national accreditation body in this field, SOGEI would not have management and technical requirements according to the standard UNI EN ISO/IEC 17025. Gentlemen, this is a $22 billion turnover on people's suffering. I have therefore asked a question in order to have an answer from the Government to the questions that every citizen asks himself, in order to have at least the transparency that soon, on tax returns, the State demands from all of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u214	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-220.ana.u215	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, April 2, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.59.
