ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. It will be carried out first the questioning 2-00080, with abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Regulation, on the European legislation on renewable energies. I call Senator Vaccari to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u4	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, representatives of the Government, I presented this question almost a year ago, together with 35 colleagues, to find out what the government's position was basically on the proposal for a European directive amending the current RED and FQD directives. The 2009 European Parliament Directive on Renewable Energy (RED) provides for the achievement, by 2020, of a target of 10% renewable energy in the transport sector that currently Member States, including Italy, are pursuing almost exclusively through the promotion of biofuels. Already during the discussion of the directive, the risks were present in the debate that a significant increase in consumption of first generation biofuels, driven by the objective of compulsory consumption, could represent both for food safety, due to the impact on the increase in food prices, and for the environment, due to indirect emissions. The text of the RED provides for corrective measures to be taken to avoid these risks, requiring the European Commission to submit every two years a report on the impact of increased demand for biofuels and on the social sustainability of the Union in third countries. The proposal for a directive comes from the legislative mandate already contained in existing legislation, according to which the European Union has a responsibility to analyse indirect land use changes caused by the production of biofuels, resulting in an increase in carbon emissions. The questions we asked within the interrogation were aimed at understanding how the government would behave. From that moment, that is, from October until today, the framework has been enriched, in the sense that what the Commission initially proposed was changed at the first reading of the European Parliament and then again at the first reading of the Council. From this point of view it would be important that in the coming months, in the second reading that the European Parliament will shortly have to start in the Environment Commission and in the negotiation phase between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, a position can be defined as close as possible to what emerged from the first reading of the European Parliament, namely to safeguard a review that can really limit the use of unsustainable biofuels from the social or environmental point of view. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u5	Mr President, first of all, I apologise to Senator Vaccari for answering his question so late. Of course, I will respond on the basis of the current situation which, as Senator Vaccari already mentioned, has marked an important evolution compared to the one on which the questioning was presented. I would remind you that the European Commission's proposal for an ILUC (Indirect land use change) directive, which deals with indirect changes in land use, is part of the existing European regulatory framework (in particular the Fuel Quality Directive and the Renewable Energy Directive) and introduces measures to stimulate demand for sustainable biofuels, with the aim of mitigating greenhouse gas emissions associated with land change for their production and limiting the role of biofuels derived from agricultural crops in accounting for the 10% renewable energy target in transport by 2020, mentioned by Senator Vaccari. On the proposal for a directive, a European negotiation took place which, in the end, led to a proposal submitted by the Commission, which provided for the introduction of a ceiling of 5% for the use of biofuels produced from cereals and other starch, sugar or oil crops, in order to achieve the 10% target, with the aim of encouraging the use of advanced biofuels, thus produced through agricultural materials which are not in competition with food. Also in the Commission proposal, a value has been introduced in the emission calculation methodology to take into account emissions from indirect land-use change, which was one of the questions asked by Senator Vaccari in his question. There has been a broad and long debate within the Energy Council, which has involved several Presidencies. I remember how, precisely in the autumn of 2013 - particularly at the Council in December 2013 - the Italian position helped to prevent the adoption of a first draft directive of the then Lithuanian Presidency, which included objectives that we considered too unambitious in terms of second generation biofuels and emission containment. On that occasion a blocking minority was formed, which basically turned around Italy and Denmark. Subsequently, during the Greek Presidency, Italy promoted a resumption of the debate. The Greek Presidency in June 2014, at the Energy Council, presented a new proposal which, while not deviating from the objectives that Italy had set, was judged, both by Italy and Denmark, the most advanced compromise point that was currently possible in the Council. This agreement provides for a 7% restriction on the use of so-called first generation biofuels, i.e. in competition with food products. The 7% limit has been identified to take account of investments already made in this biofuels chain in several countries. Account has also been taken of the fact that the target of 10% by 2020, if the 5% share of first generation biofuels had been maintained, would have been difficult to reach. The second most important point, on the Danish and Italian initiative, concerned the introduction of a sub-target to be reached by 2020 for so-called advanced or second-generation biofuels, i.e. not produced in competition with food production. However, this sub-target, although limited to 0.5%, is a sign of the development of this new biofuels supply chain that is being given. The so-called trialogue (Parliament, Commission and Council) is now under way, and the final text of the directive will then be dealt with. From my participation in the Energy Councils I would point out that it seems to me honestly difficult to move the bar further from the point to which we arrived in the Council under the Greek Presidency, but we will of course see the evolution of the trilogue. I also point out that our country enjoys the advantage, compared to others, of the fact that some companies have already developed technologies with advanced biofuels and low impact (ILUC). From the industrial point of view, therefore, it is very interesting for our country the development of this supply chain. To this end, during the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014 (the Competitiveness Decree-Law), provisions have been introduced concerning the obligation to release biofuels for consumption and in particular it has been provided that, by decree of the Minister for Economic Development, in the phase of updating the conditions, criteria and modalities of implementation of the obligation to release biofuels for consumption, the minimum quota to be reached and its distribution between different types of fuels, including advanced ones, is established for the years following 2015. We are finalizing the decree precisely these days and it will be issued shortly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u8	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for the elements he has given us, especially for the commitment that Italy has made in the debate and in the debate at European level. I also believe that the compromise that has been reached in the Energy Council of June 2014 is certainly as advanced as possible to date; we trust, then, in the capacity and determination of our Government in order to possibly work on further improvements. Above all, we trust that, starting from the capacity that our country has had to invest on advanced technologies in the use of advanced biofuels, we can, with the measures that the Vice Minister described above, linked to the implementation of Decree-Law No 91 of 2014, give even more space and stimulus, as well as support, to this part that, undoubtedly, has, both from the social point of view and from the environmental point of view, as well as food, an absolutely reduced impact.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u9	Questions 3-00467 and 3-00690 from the industrial point of view of Electrolux are followed. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u10	Mr President, here again I apologise to the senators because their questions date back to November 2013 and January 2014. The production and employment situations of Electrolux were the reason for commitment by the Government, which ensured the correct and profitable conduct of the dispute at the table of comparison established at the Ministry of Economic Development. I remember that the first announcement that Electrolux gave of the basic lines of its industrial plan dates back to the end of October 2013; from that moment on the government followed the story closely, there was a modification of the industrial plan already in January 2014 and, finally, an evolution that I will now call back, which we believe was positive compared to the first plan, which had applications that we had deemed unsatisfactory. The strict commitment to this action has helped to solve complex problems and to reach agreement on some crucial issues, in order to arrive at a positive conclusion of the dispute. After nine months of confrontation and negotiation, on May 15th the agreement was signed between the Minister of Economic Development, the Minister of Labour, the Presidents of the Regions concerned and the representatives of the unions, the national and territorial secretaries of FIOM, FIRN and UILM, and the summits of Electrolux. The Government and the Regions have committed themselves to the decontribution of solidarity contracts and the facilitated funding for research and support for vocational training and retraining. The company, with a very positive evolution of the industrial plan, has committed itself to a substantial investment plan and to safeguarding employment levels, trade unions and workers have accepted contracts of solidarity and flexibility in the organization of work. In this important dispute has been achieved - we believe - a very innovative result that safeguards employment and production: an important signal for a sector as important as that of household appliances, which shows that in Italy you can continue to invest and do business. The agreement provides, inter alia, for investments of around EUR 150 million for 60% of product innovations and for the remaining 40% for innovative interventions on the production process and for the preservation of all product lines. This will allow the maintenance in operation of the four plants of the Electrolux group on the national territory of Porcia, Susegana, Forlì, Solaro and the guarantee of the jobs. The Government's action has also been directed to support the use of solidarity contracts, as I said by reducing the contribution burden on companies and, in agreement with the Regions, to finance innovation projects of both product and process. It should also be noted that a technical table has been set up at the MISE, involving all institutional actors, including the regions concerned and the representatives of the company. The aim of the technical table is to develop measures adapted to the programmes provided for in the agreements, so that their implementation can follow procedural steps in accordance with the laws and regulations in force and is constantly monitored. The next meeting, scheduled for 2 October (next week), will continue the examination of innovative projects that, in case they meet the legal criteria, will be able to benefit from the established funding. Finally, as regards the social shock absorbers that are used, I remember that at the sites of Porcia, Susegana and Solaro is active a solidarity contract and at the site of Forlì is currently being extended the IGC for corporate reorganization and then we will proceed anyway with solidarity contract or other instrument suitable to maintain the protection of the occupational levels and to guarantee the process of productive reorganization.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u13	Sonego (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Government for its action in recent months on this matter. I must acknowledge the great commitment of the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Labour and also the fact that the commitment of workers, trade unions and regions has been very useful in a comparison with the company that has demonstrated, in the final phase, a willingness and a commitment that at the beginning seemed to want to deny. Very briefly, within this framework I would like to recommend to the Government the maximum commitment to ensure that the administrative measure, i.e. the ministerial decree, which serves to ensure that that part of the agreement concerning the decontribution of solidarity contracts can go well, is issued promptly, because that is an essential part of the May agreement. I am also of the opinion that the May agreement has allowed us to buy three years of time, that is to say to conquer a negotiating and industrial temporal condition that was initially not present and that today allows us instead to work fully using these three years of time for a further rooting in Italy of the Swedish multinational. The challenge lies entirely, as Vice Minister Claudio De Vincenti has already mentioned, in ensuring that the washing, refrigeration and cooking products that are made in Italy can reach, for being manufactured in an innovative way and to contain high rates of innovation themselves, a degree of competitiveness, at least European that, at the moment, does not seem to have. This is how we will defend Italian manufacturing and jobs. Finally, I would like to say that it seems to me very important, and therefore to be welcomed, that the Swedish multinational has decided, somewhat by surprise, to purchase the household appliances of the large multinational group of the United States General Electric. This is an industrial choice that a year ago was not conceivable within the framework of the strategic scenarios of the house in Stockholm which, let us remember, over the last decade has turned more to the side of the financial profile than to the industrial and manufacturing one. That choice, in many respects, reverses a strategic approach and for this reason I think it should be welcomed. This is in fact a very strong choice on the industrial terrain. I believe that, also because of this consideration today, we must ensure that these three years in Europe and, as far as we are concerned more specifically, in Italy are exploited for the purpose of further Italian rooting of the multinational. I say in a bit of operatic terms, but not least for this reason, that it is three years to be used to the very end, so the appeal that I make to myself, to the unions, to the regions, but also to the government and to Parliament, is that in these three years no one sleeps.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u16	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his reply, although late, having spent several months on the requests made, which, among other things, did not indicate a specific problem, as happened many times at a time when we saw the crisis raging in this country by cutting heavily jobs and businesses. The work emergency has unfortunately been our custom in recent years. As you will certainly have understood and as the Government has certainly understood, the appeal contained in my question, signed by more than 30 colleagues, is the result of the same question as my colleague, Mr Sonego, which has seen a considerable contribution from the whole House. In reality the case Electrolux was much more than a punctual affair, being a case of school, I would say emblematic, in which it was evident the necessity that it was urged, as happened through this question, a intervention of the Government together with the Regions, the intermediate bodies of the unions and certainly together with the company, in order to call strongly the latter in order to its delay in the matter of innovation and therefore regarding the possibility to invest in a coherent way regarding the times within the four plants that, I would like to remember, have about 10 percent total of all the workers Electrolux of the world; we are around 5,700 employees divided in four places in Italy where washing machines, refrigerators, dishwashers and ovens are made. What happened, with the Government that took the bull by the horns, identifying the paths of each actor and inviting everyone to do their part, as it was absolutely necessary and appropriate, has certainly produced a great result: to bring to the attention of all the workers of the company a strong will to accompany the company itself by the Government for its strategic value, as well as for the number of employees. At the same time, as you said just now, Mr Vice-Minister, the need to monitor situations over the three years in relation to the agreements reached has been stressed, and to check whether the investments have been made and how the decontribution, the tax credit and the contributions made at the time by the regions themselves work. I mean, let each of the actors play their part. The so-called sick, the Electrolux, at that time had put on the field - ahinoi - drastic reductions not only of employees, but also - unfortunately - of the salaries that are normally paid by Italian companies. So, from an alarming and alarming situation that we were experiencing at the end of 2013 and at the beginning of 2014, evolution was, in this case, extremely positive. We follow her and continue to follow her. I believe that the meeting that you will have on October 2 will be a further part of this intellectual investment and political will in relation to the world of work and compared to companies able to believe in this country and to make innovation. Therefore, at least at a distance of time, we can declare that the alarm is cancelled, at least exceeded, and we certainly keep a careful check on the whole situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u17	Following is the question 3-00729, on the recruitment of personnel of the Forces of the Order at the Expo 2015. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Bencini, together with other fellow Senators, asks the Government what initiatives it intends to take to undertake the immediate recruitment of those who have been eligible for the public competition for 964 positions of student agent of the State Police, banned in March 2013, as well as the winners of the competition included in the second rate. The theme highlighted was the subject of careful evaluation by the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, to which were well known the aspirations of the suitable. Before Parliament's recent intervention, it had not been possible to meet the expectations of those concerned, because of the limits imposed by the code of the military order. On the basis of these provisions, in fact, the posts to be put in competition for the recruitment of personnel in the initial careers of the Police Forces are determined through an assumption mechanism entirely peculiar, modelled on the specific needs of the Defense and related to the need to guarantee, periodically predetermined, a sufficient number of volunteers. Among other critical issues was to safeguard the rights of the winners belonging to the so-called second rate and four-year standing, for which there was the objective of a risk of overtaking by the suitable, with high risk of litigation. It had also been noted that the recruitment of candidates for the competitions already carried out would have involved the incorporation of staff with a greater age of record, with further negative repercussions on the problem of raising the average age of police personnel. In the presence of such constraints, I believe that, in the conversion of Decree-Law No 90 of 24 June 2014, Parliament, with the agreement of the Government, has identified a satisfactory solution to the problem, achieving a balanced balance of the various interests at stake. First of all, because the authorisation to slide the rankings in favour of the eligible ones, contained therein, concerns only the competitions for access to the police forces launched in 2013 and, therefore, with regard to the State Police, exclusively the contest to 964 posts, with a contained impact on the recruitment system. In addition, the use of scrolling finds its motivation in the major security-related needs of Expo 2015, making evident its completely extraordinary measurement character. In implementation of the aforementioned decree-law, all 502 eligible of the contest to 964 places have already been declared winners by decree of the Head of the Police last August 25. They were summoned for the attendance of the related training course that began last September 16 at the students schools agents of Alexandria and Brescia. In the coming months, moreover, will be sent to the four-year stop in the Armed Forces, as provided for by the current legislation, the quota of 160 units, that is the so-called second rates of the said course.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u21	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, the numbers have quite confused me, but it seems to me that the response has been given to the police who were asking for the ranking to be crossed. So, all eligible people will be hired. A part of them seems to me to have realized that they have already been called and are taking a training course and then taking service, while the remaining ones will be absorbed in time. The question was asked precisely by the police union who asked for the sliding of the ranking. If the Government has accepted what has been asked, I can only be satisfied, and above all the people who were waiting to have a place and a job, which today is goldcoil, will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u22	The following is the question 3-00978 on the complaint of a sale of votes in the Municipality of Capena (Rome). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u23	With the question on the agenda, Senator Fasano calls to the attention of the Government a complaint lodged by the secretary of the political movement "the Maestrale" in relation to an alleged sale of votes occurred in the City of Capena, in the province of Rome, during the past local elections. I inform you, on the basis of the elements of inquiry acquired in the aforementioned municipality, that the person in charge of the electoral office of the same local authority has been informed of the complaint informally and limited to some irregularities in the applications for registration on the additional electoral lists of citizens of the European Union, for the election of the mayor and of the municipal council. The same official, with a view to the conduct of electoral operations, made the presidents of seats aware of the need to ensure compliance with the ban on the introduction of mobile phones or other equipment capable of photographing or recording images in the electoral booth, in line with the specific directives issued by the Ministry of Interior. In this regard, it should be recalled that the Ministry of the Interior, at the time of the elections, prepares specific publications with instructions for the operations of the section electoral offices and issues special circulars to ensure that the electoral consultations are carried out in the absolute guarantee of the inviolability and secrecy of the vote. In relation to the matter which is the subject of today's question, the local Carabinieri station has communicated that a criminal procedure has been instituted at the prosecutor's office of the Republic of the Tivoli court. The investigations are still under way and covered by secret investigation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u26	FASANO (FI-PdL XVII). I think I can say I'm satisfied. I put this question on the basis of a detailed complaint to the Carabinieri. The facts represented by the Deputy Minister, whom I thank, are less serious than those mentioned in the complaint. I can only be satisfied with this "less aggravating" circumstance, because the fact itself - this does not escape the Deputy Minister - is very serious. We are men of the Mezzogiorno, and these phenomena of sale of votes are absolutely to be censored. However, I also take note of the final circumstance mentioned by the Deputy Minister, namely that a criminal investigation is under way. We therefore await developments for a final assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u27	Following is Question 3 01169 on incidents between two typho-series at Palermo airport. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u28	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Vaccari draws the attention of the Government to the clashes between the fans of the football teams of Modena and Padua, which took place on 25 January at the airport.Falcone-Borsellino in Palermo. I would like to point out immediately that, from the news acquired at the local public security authorities and the same department of public security, it is clear that the concomitant presence of the two rival fans at the airport in Palermo has been determined exclusively by factors of chance, linked to the chance delay in the arrival of the Modena fans compared to the scheduled time. To understand the exact dynamics of events, a brief reconstruction of the facts is required. On 24 January, at 8.30 p.m., the Trapani-Padova football match was held at the provincial stadium of Trapani (Santa Erice), valid for the 2013/2014 B series championship. In relation to this match it was reported that about 30 loyal fans, belonging to the groups organized in Padua, would arrive at Palermo airport on the afternoon of 24 January. They would be parted from the same port of call the next day, after having attended the meeting and have stayed in the Sicilian capital as guests of the Palermo fans with which there has been a consolidated twinning for years. This program and the list of the ultras Paduans subject to the measure of DASPO had been communicated, in the days before the game, to the DIGOS of Trapani and Palermo and to the Polaria offices of Venice, Palermo and Trapani. The information on the lack of rivalry known to the fans of Trapani, as well as those on the twinning existing between the fans of Padua and Palermo, had led to modulate the services to protect the public order in proportion to the absence of particular levels of risk. In concrete terms, the local police department has implemented a special surveillance, order and public security mechanism through the use of territorial forces as well as a reinforcement team of the mobile department of Palermo and 10 operators of the Milan mobile department already present on the territory. Staff of the DIGOS office was also sent to Palermo airport for the monitoring service and relay of the 30 ultras of Padua. As for the Palermo-Modena football match, held at the stadium in Palermo (Renzo Barbera) on the following 25 January, it was precise that the related observatory card, drawn up on the basis of the ministerial directives of the National Observatory on Sports Events, had indicated a low level of risk, no previous episode of intemperance between the fans and the use of the air vehicle for 65 fans away. In particular, on 23 January, the Modena police station had reported to Palermo the arrival at the airport of the Sicilian capital, in the first morning of 25 January, of about 60 supporters of Modena, who would leave the same day, with the flight of 21.45 hours. Some of the above-mentioned fans would have rented cars to reach Palermo's sports facilities themselves, while others would have used two means of transport made available by the local Azienda municipalizzata autotrasporti (AMAT). In the absence of particular risk levels, the Palermo police station has set up a traffic assistance service for the aforementioned AMAT means, along the route from the airport to the stadium, through the use of two patrol cars and a crew of the local DIGOS. Due to the adverse weather conditions, the flight on which the Modena fans were travelling was hijacked at Birgi airport in Trapani, from where the airline Ryanair arranged for the transfer of the host fan to Palermo airport, via a private carrier. Upon the arrival of the fans from Trapani, the DIGOS of Modena informed the homologist office of Palermo that they had learned that a group of ultras Modenesi, just arrived at the airport Falcone-Borsellino, had the intention to start a physical clash with the supporters of Padua, remained in Palermo - as already said - after the meeting Trapani-Padova, and leaving for Treviso. While this news was promptly conveyed to the police operators present on the spot, in the outer area of the airport, to the height of the field arrivals, in fact there has been a sudden brawl between the fringe of the group ultras Curva Sud Modena and the fans of the Padua football, kept under control by the prompt intervention of the police staff. In order to strengthen the police device, a team of the 11th Palermo Mobile Department was also sent on site, the support of which allowed, among other things, the identification of six subjects (three Modena fans and three Paduas respectively), recognized as competitors to the fight and responsible for violence and resistance against police personnel. In the same context, thanks to the help of the CCTV cameras of Falcone Borsellino Airport - which allowed to ascertain the participation in the episodes of 25 other fans of Modena football - the arrest was made for the crime of aggravated brawl in competition and of injuries and aggravated resistance to the public officer of 16 additional subjects, as well as the denunciation in state of freedom, for the offence of aggravated brawl in competition, of the remaining nine. After the rite formalities, the persons arrested, at the disposition of the judicial authority, were accompanied to the security chambers of the police station in Palermo, pending the validation hearing scheduled for January 27. In that meeting, when validating the arrest measures, the judicial authority established the application of the precautionary measure of house arrests against the first six fans stopped, since they immediately recognized themselves as competitors in the fight, and the prohibition of access to the stadium for three years with an obligation to submit against the other 16 ultras arrested. On 3 February the trial was held with abbreviated rite for the 22 fans arrested, which ended with the sentence of one year and six months imprisonment for five people and one year and four months for the remaining subjects. In addition, following specific investigative findings carried out jointly by the headquarters of Palermo, Treviso and Padua, were referred to the judicial authority, for the crime of aggravated fight in competition, even 16 patavin fans who, after the initial identification, were broken down without it had been possible to verify the involvement in the clashes. All fans, exponents of the ultras Modenese and Padua groups, were also recipients of DASPO measures. In the course of the fight both typhoseries have made use of straps, straps and sticks, probably recovered in a construction site, duly kidnapped by the Forces of Order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u31	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Bubbico for the detailed reconstruction of the matter, which dates back to January of this year and which, a first reading of the facts reported, certainly raised some concerns. I am satisfied with the detailed and detailed description that the Deputy Minister has represented. As written in the question, however, I continue to think that by the Forces of the Order there has been an underestimation of the risk factors that the encounter of the two fans, Padua and Modena, would have involved; if only because these two fans had already come in contact in previous years and in other championships, representing this rivalry in a rather obvious way. I believe that with little, just as with other rivalries between adverse typhoseries, the incident at Palermo airport could also have been avoided. I also repeat that the treatment that the fans stopped suffered in the Security Chamber, could have followed a process more respectful of the rights of the fans who did not have any chance to contact their family members, but only the lawyer who then defended them. I believe, however, that from this episode emerges how it is certainly important from the forces of order, from the elements that they can collect at the level of each city, a greater relationship and a greater integration of the information they have in order to avoid that these incidents happen, but also to avoid an underestimation of the risk factors that these sporting events carry with them. A first reading also revealed a disproportion in the measures resulting from acts against Modena fans. The Deputy Minister represented how from following investigations it was possible to return to responsibilities, which were rather obvious from the beginning, also of the Padua fans, and I believe that this is to be attributed to the merit of the Forces of order that have acted in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u32	Following is Question 3-01039 on the European legislation on grading pig carcases. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question I am going to answer concerns the new methods of measuring lean meat in pig carcases. In this regard, first of all, I would like to point out that, for the classification and recording of market prices for pig carcases, the Ministerial Decree of 12 October 2012 is still in force, since the only innovation introduced by the new CMO, as set out in Regulation No 1308 of 2013, concerns the introduction of quality class S, which has become compulsory, unlike the previous legislation, which left the Member State free to use it. In any case, this is a change that does not affect our productive reality, represented by a heavy type pig farming, having to the aforementioned class S to be used, for the purpose of the recording of market prices, exclusively for light carcasses. In fact, with the amendment of Regulation No 1249 of 2008, which was introduced by Regulation No 148 of 2014, Member States are obliged to make notifications of the market quotations of the R-carnosity class for heavy pigs and the E- and S-carnosity classes for light pigs. Therefore, the abovementioned Ministerial Decree is in line with the relevant European provisions, since, for light pigs, the obligation to classify and record market prices is already laid down. The further innovations, which concern the bovine sector in particular, have been transposed and disseminated by Ministerial Circular No 175 of 9 January 2014. I would also like to point out that the updating of the equations for estimating the lean meat content of pig carcases was inevitable, because we had obsolete equations, resulting from a 15-year-old trial, carried out on a pig population with genetic characteristics other than the current ones. This is however an update required by the sector chain - with the agreement of the chain signed in Mantova, in July 2013, also by the city council members of the main productive regions - and made operational by the European Executive with the issuing of the decision of execution n. 38 of 2014, which has authorized Italy to apply the new equations of estimate for the classification of pig carcasses. I would also like to point out that, in order to remove the doubts expressed by certain operators about the correctness of the equations in question - the application of which involves a deviation of about 20% of the carcasses from the U-quality class (conferable for PDOs) to the E-quality class (not accepted under the production specifications) - at a special meeting we have already provided ample demonstration of the criteria used during the research conducted, in line with the provisions laid down in Article 23 of Regulation No 1249 of 2008. In this context, the unanimous conclusion was reached that the estimation equations referred to in the implementing decision are correct, which is why derogations from the application of European and national legislation cannot be allowed. However, in view of the difficulties represented, I assure you that I will be prepared to examine appropriate solutions to address the problem raised. Not by chance, aware of the delicacy of the question raised, I recall that it has already been convened, and took place on the initiative of Minister Martina, the specific table of livestock supply chain for the pig sector (on July 3rd), and that also individual regional tables are in progress - of which already two activated, one in Lombardy and another in Piedmont - coordinated by the undersigned with their respective regional councillors. In addition, a draft implementation (management of the quantitative data of carcasses supporting the heavy pig chain) of a continuous monitoring activity carried out by the Ministry in recent years is being approved, with the aim of introducing a system of classification as objective as possible and third of pig carcases, guaranteeing the parties in the formation of the final price. I emphasize, in particular, that the decisions of the chain table of last July 3 have been the valorization of the national identity of the fresh swine meat, the possibility given to the regions of use of funds of the RDP for the support to the sector in serious crisis situation, as the questioner pointed out, and the implementation of the protocol of understanding, signed in 2013 in Mantua, already recalled, and the financial support of the MIPAAF for the procedures implementing the system of classification of pig carcasses. Finally, I would like to point out that the regional finance of Lombardy and Piedmont, in addition to ISMEA, has been involved in these regional tables, both for the profiles related to the specific pig chain and for those related to the entire livestock sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u36	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, to whom I immediately say that I am satisfied with his reply, for a number of reasons. One, allow me, comes from the fact that my question is last 12 June, so I was among the first to raise the problem, so much so that then the same associations of category in the following months - and the dates show it - have evidenced this that it would become a critical one. I very much appreciate the work you have done, to the point that the CRA and the other research bodies that have allowed this new detection system have pointed out precisely that these equations could be better done. A problem that could have affected 15 to 25% of our carcasses has been reduced to very little, but above all it has allowed the operators to modulate the new diets and the new genetic situation, so the problem will be there in the coming months, because it will take about a year for it to be completely overcome. Finally, I would like to thank the Ministry for being very attentive to the pig sector which, as we have all said, is in difficulty. I would like to point out to you that I have other questions on the table to keep this good report alive. On the contrary, rather than questions, I would like to call them solicitations, precisely because the report must be in the sense of highlighting the problems and trying to solve them, as in this case, so even before they become manifest, so that our pig sector becomes even more an Italian excellence in the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u37	Interview 2-00157 is followed by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156-a of the Rules of Procedure, on the supervision of health and safety at work. I call Senator Bencini to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u38	Mr President, I give up the illustration of the questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u39	The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u40	Mr President, the respondents to this parliamentary act draw the Government's attention to the supervision of health and safety at work carried out by the Ministry I represent. In this regard, it should be noted in advance that, pursuant to Article 13 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008, the supervision of the application of legislation in the field of health and safety at work is normally carried out by the local health company territorially competent and only in some activities expressly identified by the legislator, including mainly that in the field of construction, to which work is accompanied by compressed air boxes and underwater works. Such supervision may also be exercised by the competent territorial directorates of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I would also point out that the administration I represent is unable to provide exact data on the supervisory activity carried out by ASLs as regional bodies. I would like to remind you that the planning of the surveillance activity in the field of health and safety at work is entrusted, pursuant to Article 7 of Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008 and the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 21 December 2007, to the regional coordination committees whose activity takes into account the strategic indications of the Committee for the address and evaluation of active policies and for the national coordination of the activities of supervision in the field of health and safety at work, referred to in Article 5 of the same Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008. On the basis of this programming, in order to achieve a targeted and effective action of the inspection activity, every year is prepared by the Ministry that I represent a document of planning of the technical supervision activities that sets out the numerical objectives of the investigations to be carried out. That said, I shall reply to the questions put in this Parliamentary act. In particular, with reference to the first question, I would like to point out that - from 2012 onwards - the territorial offices of this Ministry have achieved the objectives set out in the annual programming document. To this end, I put at the disposal of the interviewing senators and the Shareholders' Meeting the summary of the results of the surveillance activity in the field of health and safety at work carried out by the competent offices of the administration that I represent in the Regions of Emilia-Romagna, Lazio, Piedmont and Tuscany relative to the years 2012 and 2013, from which it results, in particular, with reference to Emilia-Romagna, that in the year 2013 1429 enterprises have been inspected, 658 irregularities have been detected, that have determined the emission of 527 criminal measures of condemnation. With regard to the region of Sicily, which is characterised by special statutory autonomy, I would point out that, in its institutional organisation, the inspection bodies in the field of work and social legislation are specifically organised, on which the Ministry I represent does not exercise any coordination and guidance activities. As far as the second question is concerned, in repeating that the coordination of surveillance activities in the field of health and safety at work does not fall within the competence of the Ministry that I represent, I would point out that on 18 September 2014 the Senate Working Commission approved a government amendment to the bill n. 1428 that provides for the rationalization and simplification of the inspection activity, through coordination measures or through the establishment of the Single Agency for Labour Inspections. The aim of the amendment is to make the inspection activity more efficient by integrating into a single structure the inspection services of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, the NPS and the INAIL, providing for tools and forms of coordination with the inspection services of ASL and ARPA.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u43	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, with regard to the amendment to Article 4 of draft law No 1428, I would remind the Undersecretary Cassano that it had been tabled by Senators Orellana and Bencini (i.e. by the undersigned). So the government has accepted the possibility of unifying controls in a single agency. Of course, checks are needed by the Ministry of Labour, INPS, INAIL, ARPA and ASL. Employers, however, are often too vexed by controls without a precise summary of what is actually necessary for safety at work or without strict guidelines, which would allow them to respond and comply with certain safety rules for workers. Another problem that we have noted is that these bodies often do not communicate with one another. Therefore, more bodies go to do checks but without there being a network among them. We therefore welcome a single agency, so that it can communicate. You say that, however, checks have been carried out or that, at least, it has been found that the various bodies carry out a number of random checks on the territory, and that they make an important number of them. You spoke of a number of controls of more than 1,000, which showed that a small percentage of companies (about 30%) were not in order. In this respect, I would like to see the Provinces and Regions implementing continuing training courses for safety at work, aimed at both employers and workers. I think it is important for a social conscience to develop with regard to the need to carry out its work safely. When you are not safe, in fact, accidents can occur - I think of the so-called white deaths - and there are many in the yards: lately there have also been accidents in the construction sites for the staging of concerts, where young people often work, who fall off the scaffolding due to lack of sufficient protection or lack of knowledge of the rules of prevention and behaviour to be adopted to prevent certain events from happening, and sometimes due to lack of preparation to adhere to certain rules. I would like to see more investment on the territory by the Provinces and the Regions in order to intensify the courses on safety in the places of work addressed to both categories because, even if this were to lead to greater expenditure in the present, an increase for society, for the State and for the local authorities, would in fact result in indirect savings. At a time when a person is not harmed, he does not need treatment, so there could also be a saving from the point of view of health costs, but above all at the social level, because death at the work of a person is a huge social, personal and family damage. The fact that a person gets hurt at work and suffers physical, even permanent, damage is serious from a social point of view. I thank the Undersecretary for his reply. There is no doubt that there is a single agency with the task of carrying out more checks and monitoring on safety in the workplace and workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u44	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u45	I would remind my fellow Members that Parliament is convened at 5 p.m. on Tuesday 30 September to vote for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u46	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-319.ana.u47	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 30 September, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.13 p.m.
