ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. From now on, therefore, the deadline of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (16,03 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. I would remind you that the general debate continued in the afternoon sitting. He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am embarrassed to address such a solemn, important and decisive issue for the fate of the country in these conditions. I see that the Premier is also absent and I'm sorry, because I'm going to talk about him. That Constitutional Charter, which until a few years ago a large part of the people in this House considered untouchable (it seems that everyone on the Constitution also takes the position that suits us best at the moment), is about to be changed with times and ways more worthy of a condominium regulation than not of the fundamental Charter on which the Republic stands. The examination of the reform was a race against time at the expense of a thorough and thoughtful confrontation; the exact opposite of what our constituent Fathers did sixty years ago, who even came out of a lost war, left the monarchy for the Republic and were in a hurry to rebuild the country. The Premier, unpublished since the government - as Calamandrei said - should remain outside the door on these issues, has put a series of time ultimatums: he has demanded to have a text adopted in the Commission before the European elections and now wants the measure to be approved at first reading by both branches of Parliament already in this first phase of the Italian Presidency of the European Union. Indeed, the competent minister stated, in his innocence, that the House should also dismiss the reform before August. This is and has been the main concern of the Government in the debate on constitutional reform: not the goodness or effectiveness of the reform, but the desire to shout as soon as possible to the four winds of having abolished the Senate. Senators Chiti, Bonfrisco, Caliendo, Candiani, Crimi and Tarquinio have already spoken in an absolutely admirable way about the inconsistencies and contradictions of this reform. On the other hand, I will dwell on the timing, which shows more than anything else how much the failure to say weighs on this matter much more than the arguments used in the public debate; a debate polluted by a thick layer of hypocrisy. The timing, in fact, exposes the only key of reading that makes rational an attitude that at first sight appears completely irrational: the Premier wants a new institutional structure and an electoral law ready for use for the next spring, when, in the face of an economic situation that could remain extremely problematic (internal and international economic indicators continue to promise nothing good) he will need a way out, that is the early elections, before his relationship of trust with the country disappears and the spectre of a destiny similar to that of Letta and Monti comes to him. The boy, unlike his predecessors, is smart and wants to play in advance, which is why in his strategy the reform must be approved by the two Chambers by next January, leaving the possibility, if he does not have two thirds, to hold the referendum confirmation in the first part of next spring. In this way the June window for the early elections will remain open, to which the Premier will present himself without adequate results from the point of view of the economy, but having as its flagship those reforms that politics tried to give itself for twenty years. It doesn't matter if these reforms are "rounded" and they won't feed the country: the important thing, in the traditional Renzian scheme, is just to be able to say it. In short, the case of the virtual abolition of the Provinces will be repeated. This premise, this key of reading, is the only one that makes us understand what precisely, as I said before, would otherwise be incomprehensible, because the rigid attitude (not to say tetragon) of the Premier on some salient aspects has no logic in terms of content and outside the horizon of the desire to go to the early vote in spring. Let's start with the matter of the elective Senate. If the government accepted the idea of the elective Senate it would solve many of the contradictions and paradoxes of this reform and could achieve a historical result. In the meantime it would give a greater degree of legitimacy to an organism that instead risks becoming the emblem of that word that I have always refused, that is, the so-called caste. Already, the new Senate, appointed by the regional councillors, that is, from that part of the political class that has been most entangled in the jerseys of the judiciary (at least half is inquisited) risks becoming the symbol of the caste. In fact, thanks to the new system, it will be the regional councillors who decide who among them should be granted parliamentary immunity by appointment as senator. I mean, for a communication expert like Renzi, this could become a Caporetto. We are not talking about that bug that is the transitional rule that, as the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, has denounced, presents profiles of unconstitutionality: if the Senate were elected directly there would be no need for such a patrocchio. And instead, the Premier has decided to risk it. And he is ready to give up also a historical result that would have at hand: one account, in fact, is to approve among the polemics a reform with a majority that perhaps will not reach even two thirds, opening the way to a referendum that will divide the country; another is to have a yes from 90% of this House on overcoming the perfect bicameralism, on two rooms with different functions and competences, on a single political chamber that votes the confidence to the government, in exchange only for the direct election of the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] The first parameter on which the success of a constitutional reform is measured is the degree of sharing: the higher it is, the more the rules are recognized and accepted by all and the longer the reform will last. It is enough to see the precedents: the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution voted by majority by the PD lasted just over ten years; the reform of the centre-right, which also Senator Crimi in this debate judged less worse than what we are currently examining, passed Parliament's examination but was rejected by the referendum. Well, the Premier, accepting the direct election of the Senate, has the possibility that this reform is historic, is approved by everyone, that it does not divide, and instead renounces this opportunity. Why? Because if he accepted the direct election of the senators, an electoral law for the Senate would also have to be made, and that would give him some complications on the road map he gave himself. The system would not be ready to vote in the late spring. And to this need, to this opportunity Renzi subordinates everything. It sacrifies to it the idea of the elective Senate, but also the hypothesis of lowering the number of MPs, avoiding to maintain a pletoric Chamber, expensive and inefficient. Lowering the number of Members would also complicate its timetable. Nor does he care to give life in this way to a system that in some ways is worse than Putin's Russia. There at least the President of the Republic is elected directly by the citizens. The system that is born by combining a majority electoral law, such as the one we talk about, with this reform of the Senate, instead puts a great power in the hands of the secretary of the winning party: it is he who decides on the Premier, the Head of State, the Constitutional Court and the other guarantee bodies. This is not Putin, but we return to Breznev, to the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. The dominus, in fact, becomes the secretary of the majority party, without any balancing. Since we remain a parliamentary republic, the Premier also depends on him. Taking into account Renzi's ways, I don't know what will happen: just ask Enrico Letta. Not for nothing has the current Head of Government seen well to keep to himself also the office of secretary of the party. After all, Renzi - I don't want to - is accustomed to this kind of political-institutional culture: the Porcellum, the electoral law for which Calderoli and Berlusconi were hanged, is nothing but the copy and paste of the electoral law of the Tuscany Region. In short, Porcellum was also born on the banks of the Arno. In short, with the new system all the political dialectic takes place within the majority party, also the choice, as we said, of the guarantee bodies. And today it can touch the PD, tomorrow at the center-right, the day after tomorrow at the triggers, provided that in the end so much power does not turn into a regime, perhaps sweet. The reform of the referendum institute - another aspect that does not convince me of this law - is an omen. So, I appreciate the effort of those who want to find balances. I am ready to subscribe to President Casini's proposal for the election of the Head of State, which provides for the first three votes with the two-thirds quorum, before moving to direct election. That would be a great balance. Of course, it remains the paradox of achieving a transformation of this magnitude, not with an ad hoc system, but in a surreptitious way. Unfortunately, there is no time for a discussion on this subject, because the Premier has no time and does not give us time. And back to square one. Renzi's aim to prepare for next spring a way out, a way out, such as the electoral one, to consolidate his power, is legitimate. That's all I need. It is, however, with the fact, certainly not positive, that this strategic objective has completely conditioned the confrontation on constitutional reforms and has allowed it to expire - just look at some exits of the same Head of Government - precisely in the ways and in the contents. After all, a comparison set in this way on a subject that concerns the very essence of our institutions does not offer the image of innovation, anything else. If anything, it is the photograph of the decline of a political class that reform institutions thinking about the contingent, forgetting that we are deciding also for the years to come: it reform quickly and badly, thinking only of the conveniences of today. That is why I make an appeal, the last one, to the Government: think again, avoid this thrilling prospect. The Senate that will emerge from these reforms will be mostly useless but, if it is not a direct expression of the popular will, it will risk becoming even harmful. If this is the perspective, then it would be better, much better, to abolish it altogether. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, NCD, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX groups and the Senators Di Maggio and Maurizio Rossi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u6	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that President Renzi's initiative on bicameralism has achieved a first result, as is apparent from Senator Minzolini's speech: he has brought back respect for the Constitution in those who have violated ad personam laws and with constant violations of the Constitution itself. [[Applause from Senators Moscardelli and Mirabelli]] Returning to the debate on the substance of the reform, I believe that the correct approach is certainly that of those who have the right to doubt with regard to this reform, constantly reflecting on the importance and delicacy of the issue. The right-duty of doubt, however, cannot become the right of prejudice. From this point of view, I believe that all accusations against those who support the reform should be sent back respectfully to the sender - in my culture there is no criminalisation of the opponent - both of the violation or of democratic insensitivity and of wanting to stay in Parliament until 2018. Let's be serious. We are looking for the most authoritative, credible and meritive arguments in relation to such issues. The reform puts us before two issues: democracy and governance. Governance is the main theme of democracy today. It is certainly the subject that passes through the electoral system, but also through better functionalization and efficiency of the legislative process. I think that's clear to everyone. This would be very easily and simply achieved. And it is a responsibility of the political class, which has not done so even through a modification of the Regulations. The simplification and acceleration of legislative procedures are not prevented by the Constitution, but by the Regulations. But the question today is another: would this approach be enough to solve the problem of modernising institutional and parliamentary systems? Is a simple change in the parliamentary system sufficient today or is it necessary to reform it in a technical sense? From this point of view, I believe that the material Constitution tells us that the framework has profoundly changed since 1948 to the present day. At the institutional level today there is a framework of reference given by Parliament, the State, the Regions and the municipalities in which their weight and role has profoundly changed and must be rethought and weighed in the sense both of providing the Regions with the role they have won on the ground and of redisciplining their legislative power to eliminate those inconsistencies and inefficiencies that the system has given. In this sense, a constitutional balance must be redesigned in response to the reform of bicameralism. This reform, in fact, by differentiating the roles of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic, changes the structure in terms of making the relationship between the State, Regions and Municipalities a different thing. The approach of those who evaluate the reform in terms of comparison with the model we are about to overcome is wrong. We must assess this parliamentary model as new and see whether it has in itself the elements of validity and consistency with the socio-political framework, the institutional framework required. It seems clear to me that in this context, when we all say - as everyone says - the need for a greater and strengthened link between the central Parliament and the institutional realities, the fact that one of the two chambers is dedicated to this function fully responds to what emerges from the evolution of the system. In this context, it is also very clear that the House of Deputies should be given the confidence, the political role, which is prominent, in a framework in which, while changing the competences and the role of the Senate, the substance of the bicameral system does not fail. In fact, legislative competences in constitutional matters, which are the most important, remain the responsibility of both branches of Parliament; likewise, perfect bicameralism remains on some subjects. Moreover, there is a power of recall and modification of the Senate, which (if we want to read it for what it is, that is for what it is written), involving qualified majorities by the House, assigns to the Senate an incident role in the legislative process. If we make an assessment of the importance of decision-making and not of formal roles, the power of appeal makes, even with respect to the legislative competence of the Chamber of Deputies, the role of the Senate not secondary, so as to prevent us from talking about camouflaged bicameralism. It is rather a specialized bicameralism, diversified, that realizes the need to better connect at national level the relationship between the State and the Regions. In this model, the theme of direct or indirect election is inserted. From this point of view, it is clear to me that the question of dogma is not one-sided. In fact, the problem cannot be solved by stating that President Renzi must abandon the dogma of non-electivity: it is not written anywhere that this is a dogma and therefore a truth in some way consecrated and the other is an evangelical truth written in the stone. They are two different models, which - as the constitutional comparison teaches - are fully embedded in the framework of mature democracies; they are two models against which there is the right of choice, but there is no right to criminalise the different opinion. I believe that this remains the central point. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The logic of indirect election is to make the Senate of the Republic as the Chamber of Representation of Territorial Institutions absolutely coherent, even in terms of its functions. The ownership of the role of regional councillor with respect to the exercise of the function of senator in a Senate of the Republic with these competences is fully logical, it is fully in the wake of a strict constitutional logic. Of course, from this point of view the problem remains - I do not want to degrade it - of the exercise of two functions; but I would have liked to hear some reflections in this regard too, pointing out how this problem could find a solution also in the regulation of parliamentary work. In fact, it is not written in any parliamentary reality that the parliamentary function should be carried out four weeks out of four. This too, therefore, is a fair objection and must be kept in mind, but it is absolutely not straightforward. It is clear, however, that this model ensures a better relationship with the territory. If we want a specialized Senate and representative of the territorial institutions, it is clear that we must provide for a direct relationship with the territory, in fact, an obligation of direct relationship with the territorial reality that arises from the function of regional adviser and not simply from the residence in a particular location. I think this is something to think about. I have no certainty - I repeat - but elements of reflection for a calm confrontation mean that attention should also be paid to this. I believe that the reform of Title V is also part of this framework. In unsuspecting times, at the first hearing of the then Minister of Regional Affairs Delrio, I argued that the concurrent competence had to be exceeded, as it was one of the elements of the model that we try to put behind us that did not work and did not guarantee effective legislative action neither of the State, nor of the Regions. The reform of Title V on this basis presents, in my opinion, elements of real validity, because it again enhances the role of the Regions and the State. There may be a rebalancing of functions so that the criticism of centralization can be further knocked down. It seems to me that the proposed model has very positive elements, including one that is decisive for me: clarity on the exclusive competences of the State and the Region. This is a decisive element in a reform of Title V that wants to foreshadow a different setup. I know that there is criticism of this too. When there is some overlap between competences, the question of the interpretation of the scope of one competence over the other is inescapable, but I believe that this framework offers elements of greater clarity. Of course, I want to reiterate here, at the same time as I support the reform, that there are elements in this framework that may appear to be purely legislative technique (but that are not only legislative) and that need to be clarified. The scope of the general and common provisions is something that needs to be clarified and we must not lose the opportunity to do so here. From this point of view, I would like to reiterate that we can, thanks to the amendments, have the opportunity to express guidelines on how to exercise the legislative function and I would like it not to be missed the opportunity. There is another issue that is being addressed in this context: that of guarantees on the President of the Republic. I think it is a central issue, which deserves all the attention that our democratic sensitivity - which belongs to everyone and not to one side - requires that we have it. I would like to reflect on this: the model emerging from the 1948 Constitution did not foreshadow the absolute impossibility of the President of the Republic being elected by the political and government majority. It provided for the President of the Republic to exercise his guarantee role, but it was not a priori prevented by the constituent from being elected by a political majority. The guarantee of the two-thirds mechanism, in fact, was valid only until the third vote and after that only the absolute majority was expected. That absolute majority led - almost always, I believe, except in the case of Cossiga and President Napolitano in the second term - to elections that were the expression of a majority. From this point of view, it will be very important to transpose into the electoral law requests for stronger, more decisive participation by the people in the choice of their representatives and also on the barrier thresholds, reflections will have to be made. This seems to me to be also reflected in the commitment made by the President-in-Office himself and I believe that this will be the reflection that we will have to do in other areas. What we are looking at therefore seems to me to be a reform with sound democratic foundations and solid elements relating to constitutionalist doctrine that ensure its balance. Of course, we are facing a real reform, we are facing a constituent moment. We are not amending a detailed rule, but we are modifying the parliamentary system as part of the model given to us by the Constitutions of 1948. It is a strong reform, it is a reform against which we need the courage of the great choices, we need the courage to try the change, a change that is asked of us by the public, that comes from our sensitivity and that we have the duty to do not run adventures. We have a duty - I believe - not to retract ourselves to this great task through which the resumption of a dialogue with the citizens passes, even if I have the full awareness that the approval of the reform of bicameralism will not really reactivate the relationship between citizens and politics because from this point of view only clear, strong and decisive action on the socio-economic level can give us back the credibility of which the political system is currently lacking. We legislators in the 17th legislature are indeed called to a much more delicate task than that of many other legislatures because we are required to make every effort so that we do not lose the path of democracy. I believe that the way to democracy, through the approval of this reform, by the signal it gives, will find it clearer and clearer and no longer obscured. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u8	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u9	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this kind of reform takes a lot of courage. But it is also true that a lot of knowledge is needed. You need to know what to do to do things right and this is not always easy when you do it in such a hurry and approximation. At the moment when we talk about reforming the Senate, at least in its relationship with the Government and in its traditional functions as the Second Legislative Chamber, it is worth remembering that in Italy bicameralism has a long tradition that starts from the Senate of the Kingdom of Piedmont, created by King Carlo Alberto with the promulgation of the so-called Albertine Statute of February 1848. With that Statute, on the model of the Charter granted to the French by Luigi Filippo d'Orleans in 1830 (that is, a constitutional monarchy), the king of Piedmont agreed to self-limit his powers, thus gaining the support of the liberal and unionist patriots of that time who elected him to lead the struggle for the political unity of the nation. These tendencies then found their natural seat, rather than in the Senate, in the Chamber of Deputies of the Kingdom of Italy through a long process of progressive democratization of political representation. The Senate of the Kingdom had remained instead always of directing appointment and for life, having the same powers as the Chamber (except for the initiative of the budget laws), even if the appointing power was little by little drudged by the hands of the king and those of the Government. Although they had never weighed on the life of the governments that were going on until they camouflaged in anonymity, even during the long fascist period, they did not lack the proposals for reform, until the last contained in the report of a special Commission that in June 1919, signed by Senators Greppi and Ruffini, suggested (already then) a Senate composed of 360 members, 180 of which elected by appropriate electoral colleges of second degree... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u10	Colleagues, I would ask you to lower the buzz, because it is difficult to listen to the senator who is conducting the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u11	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Thank you, President. As I said, 60 appointed for life by the king, 60 elected by the Senate in office and 60 elected by the Chamber of Deputies: all chosen, however, among certain categories of "optimized" of the Kingdom. So, I have to think about how anachronistic the very similar proposals that are circulating these days may seem; only then it was a big step forward, while today it would be a step backwards of almost a century. It must be said that the proposal had not followed and to block all reformative desires thought fascism, which kept the Senate formally alive, in fact depriving it of any power that the new regime concentrated instead in the person of the Head of Government and its new institutional creatures: the Grand Council of Fascism and the Chamber of Fascism and Corporations. After the fall of fascism, Italy remained for a short period (less than two years) with a single-chamber legislative system constituted by the constituent Assembly, which, while putting hand to the Constitution, at the same time also worked as a legislative chamber and, in that place, related to the post-war governments that were happening. It had indeed happened that on June 25, 1946, coinciding with the first meeting of the constituent assembly, Legislative Decree No. 48 of June 24, 1946, had ordered the termination of the old Kingdom Senate, which during the regime had been more and more infarct of fascist personalities. The constitutional vacacy lasted almost two years, until May 8, 1948, when the first republican legislature began and the Senate thus began to function again in a first mixed composition, partly originated from the popular vote of April 18 of that year and, in part, from the application of the third provision of implementation of the Constitution, which called to be part 107 celebrities of pre-fascist and anti-fascist Italy. That was the time when material, economic, moral and civil reconstruction of the country had to take place. And, between the two tendencies that emerged then, that of the total break with the past and that of the change in the continuity of the State, it was the latter that prevailed, resulting in the great compromise of the Republican Constitution. However, if there was a break with the fascist regime, it was consumed precisely in the repulse of the centralised tendency that had characterized the twenty years, when all the power had been concentrated in the hands of the Head of Government and its single party. It seemed therefore natural to imagine a model of democratic, pluralistic and decentralized state, with powers diffused in the institutions and in the territory and with a series of reciprocal controls and counterweights, such as to prevent in the future a single body of the State a concentration of powers that could question the achievements of democracy passed through a bloody world conflict and a fratricidal civil war. Hence the decision of the constituent assembly to divide the legislative power between two chambers, in absolutely equal terms, even if on the point there were lively contrasts, so much so that the Communist Party supported the thesis that all power had to be concentrated in a single legislative chamber, symbol of popular sovereignty but also capable of creating a sort of democratic centralism, in the conviction that a second chamber would of course be destined to limit the strength of the popular will, also because of the inevitable differentiations that should have been introduced in order to avoid making it a mere duplication of the first. This ancient mono-cameralist option of the PCI of that time went over time, as the dream disappeared, cultivated more from the base than from the leaders of that party, to make Italy also a country of so-called popular democracy. The Socialist Party, then linked with a pact of unity of action with the PCI, was essentially a monocameraist, but also available to a second Chamber with predominantly economic nature and a substantially consultative role. The Christian Democracy, which also defended the need to guarantee representativeness and pluralism, imagined that the Senate could also be an expression of the many local, professional, trade union, cultural and even family bodies, grouped by general categories or territorial groups, but in its vast majority strongly supported the need for a bicameral legislative system. The secular parties then, in particular the liberals and the republicans, were strongly convinced of the need to establish a true bicameralism, with a Senate endowed with powers identical to those of the Chamber and which, however, also emanated from the regional Assemblies, in a state structure with strong regional autonomy, that were able to curb the centrifugal pressures present in some Regions, starting from Sicily, where a significant separatist movement had developed. And it belongs to the paradoxes of history, not infrequent to the truth, that just some of the most direct heirs of the communist tradition have today become the most attentive defenders of representative democracy and political pluralism, while it seems that it is up to many of the heirs (or supposedly such) of the democratic-liberal tradition of that time the part of those who to those guarantees of freedom is now willing to renounce due to a greater supposed governability. But we skip a whole period of history and come to our day. Colleagues, it has been several hours for us to discuss how these constitutional reforms should be designed and, even more so, how greater involvement of the opposition forces would have been necessary and, the more the debate proceeds, the more it becomes evident that the distance between politics and society is almost unbreakable. For many, the result of the recent European elections has somehow legitimized not only this Government but also the reformist intentions that it had set itself. However, it is felt that many of the recommendations that the European institutions make to Italy are misunderstood, transposed according to the interest of the moment or modulated according to what is considered most urgent by the majority. Italy continues to have an unemployment rate of 13.6 per cent, while the youth rate is as high as 46 per cent. All this with a growth rate very close to zero. We do not need to be economists to realize that economic recovery is the priority at the moment. Among the recommendations that the European Commission made to Italy just over a month ago, we need effective action to reduce the rate of corruption in public administration and better use of the Structural Funds. Nothing about constitutional reforms. This is not easy populism, don't accuse me of this. I paid with the expulsion from the movement with which I was elected the attempt to deal seriously with the serious problems of this country without going along with its lower instincts to gain easy consent. It is a question of being able to set priorities, of realizing that it is no longer necessary to waste any more time, and it is certainly not appropriate to keep Parliament's work paralyzed with reforms of dubious usefulness. And it is not just the words of the European Commission that are misunderstood: the whole debate on these reforms seems to be based on at least questionable considerations. One out of all: that the Government is deprived of effective powers to translate its policies in certain times. Yet in this House we are all witnesses of the overused use of the urgent decree, which often so urgent is not, and which in most cases ends with a vote of confidence. Perfect bicameralism can be reformed, but not starting from the false premise that double reading involves tout court doubling the examination times of a measure. Surely many lengths could be limited by a serious revision of the legislative process or by a reform of the Senate Rules aimed at making it leaner and more effective. Certainly, the destruction of the constitutional architecture of our system cannot be considered a solution. Do we really think that by demeaning the nature of the Senate we will get an agile and efficient Parliament? As I have already mentioned, it is clear to everyone that this House has been engaged for more than a year in the conversion of decree-laws, which - as we know - not only enter into force and have immediate effects, but also have uncertain times, most certainly, for the conversion to law. In addition, it seems that the average time for the final vote on conversion laws is, in this parliamentary term, two weeks per House: even half of what is planned. Who, then, is responsible for these unbearable delays that bring us here today to discuss the decay of the Senate of the Republic? Another hypocrisy is the question of costs. Here, too, one rides the wave of popular discontent over the waste of politics on the basis of the erroneous belief that a non-elective Senate involves who knows what savings. We are well aware that senators' allowances represent only a small part of the total cost of the institution, most of which lies in the management costs of buildings, services and staff: costs that would remain unchanged. And then it would be more appropriate to make a serious self-criticism, to interpret the popular consensus obtained by the Democratic Party in the last European consultations as a guarantee of greater tranquility for the Government, which can therefore afford to give Parliament more time for an in-depth analysis of these reforms. Perhaps by beginning to reconsider the provisions on referendum repeal and popular initiative laws, with the aim of recovering that pluralistic and participatory conception of democracy that was the starting point of the work of our constituent Fathers. Democracy is put at risk in the name of governance. A reform such as that under discussion would in fact lead to a very dangerous monocameralism, considering that the last time Italy saw a Chamber of Plenipotentiaries and a Senate reduced to useless harp made up of nominations was before and during fascism. When the constituent Fathers developed the present system with an equal bicameralism it was precisely to protect the country from new totalitarian experiences. This does not mean that it cannot be changed, but it is necessary that the Constitution be reformed in line with its roots, confirming the right of citizens to elect their representatives and strengthening institutions of direct democracy. The new senators would in any case be an expression of political-administrative apparatus that reproduce in all and for all vices and virtues of national administration and politics. What sense does it have in fact to impose parafederal conceptions by denying the historical-political reasons that make our form of State clearly different from that of countries such as Germany or the United States? In the Chamber of Deputies (thanks to the electoral law with the majority prize, to the reform of the Senate and to the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism) the party or coalition winner in the elections (usually, a net minority of the royal country) would have the majority of the deputies and, therefore, the power to govern quietly for five years approving all the ordinary laws desired. In this way, greater governability would rightly be ensured. However, precisely because of these changes it would be desirable (mys is obviously a mere hypothesis of study) a Senate (not more than 200 members) elected with strictly proportional system on a regional basis, so as to give adequate representation and right of stand to all minorities in the country. The Senate of Regions and Guarantees, thus elected, should express mandatory, but not binding, opinion on all ordinary laws approving. Among other things, precisely because it is elected with a strictly proportional system, it should have exclusive legislative power over constitutional status laws which should still be adopted by qualified majority. The Senate should also be elected (always by qualified majority) by the President of the Republic, the guarantor of national unity, the judges of the Constitutional Court, the members of the Higher Council of the parliamentary appointing judiciary, the honorary members of the judiciary (as the second paragraph of Article 106 of the Constitution says), the members of the authorities, the directors of the RAI, the Governor of the Bank of Italy. In this way, the risk would be avoided that the coalition or the party that emerged winner from the electoral round (almost certainly, I repeat, a minority in the real country) would in fact be in a position to appoint, in addition to the Executive, all the bodies responsible for controlling and supervising the government's work. In fact, if on the one hand it is sacrosanct that those who win the elections name undisturbed Ministers, Undersecretaries and peripheral organs of government, thus being able to govern easily, according to the mandate received by the electoral body, on the other hand it is fundamental that the institutions represent not only those who have won the elections, but also oppositions. This responds to the idea of the Constitutions, which, among other things, had in mind the election of both branches of Parliament with the proportional system; therefore, such a requirement is even stronger today, given that the proportional system has been overcome for a long time by the majority and, moreover, there are large majority prizes that cannot be conceived at the time of the constituent Assembly. If this is not the case, the system of weights and counterweights present in all the advanced democracies is abolished, with unacceptable confusion and mix-up between controlled and controlled and with harmful consequences in every respect. I believe that only in this way can the improcrastinable demand for governability be reconciled with the plan conceived and desired by the wise constituent Fathers, who conceived a broad representativeness of the real country in the institutions, so that all citizens, of every political faith, might feel worthyly represented and guaranteed. What I have said so far certainly does not involve the denial of the existing criticalities in the system, which I have tried to highlight, and therefore does not involve the refusal to do anything to overcome them. And yet, that doesn't mean you have to do anything to do anything. Once again, therefore, the problem is to identify what type of bicameralism and what form of government is best suited to Italy, without perturbing for prejudice in the preservation of the existing, but without indulging for movementism to reformism whatever it is. If experience has shown that there are problems to be solved, it is necessary to address them specifically and not to use them for other purposes, in particular to artificially increase the shares of power that cannot be achieved on the basis of popular consensus. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Romani. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). I shall conclude, Madam President. Let us remember that the end of the tyrant's complex, even in the societies of the two thousand years, is anything but obvious. Just look at what was going to happen the day before yesterday in Poland of the Kaczyński brothers, yesterday in the Ukraine of Janukovyč, and still today in Russia of Putin, Hungary of Orbán and Turkey of Erdoğan, not to mention the involutionary phenomena, often accompanied by bloody civil wars, which are characterizing all the coastal countries of the Mediterranean; while they are certainly not reassuring the breaths of populism that are developing in almost all European countries long and seemingly reassuring democracy, not excluding Italy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bencini, Fattori and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech with two points. I do not think I am a great constitutionalist, but I am a convinced reformist, in the sense that, even if we have an extraordinary and beautiful Constitution, daughter of a certain historical period (as has been said by my colleague) and of the events that determined it, today it is probably time to adapt it. Today we are members of a European community, we live in a globalised world, the conditions have changed, the historical moment has changed and, therefore, it is probably right to adapt our Constitution and politics, our way of making politics to this new situation. I therefore believe that we need to give ourselves new rules and adapt our Constitution and policy to these new scenarios. It is a necessary change to determine good administration, to do what politics has always been called upon to do: to pursue the common good, creating rules for good governance. This is now a well-established requirement: the markets are asking us to do it, indeed, Europe is asking us to do it, but mainly our people are asking us to do it, and it is above all and only to him that we have to give account. Our people are asking. Our people are calling for a more efficient, less expensive, more transparent state system, but above all a guarantor of democracy. Democracy is based on the participation of the people and citizens. Since I am not a constitutionalist, I rely on common sense and a very simple reasoning that is paradoxical, but it is all in the title, which we gave to this bill: Provisions for the overcoming of equal bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the containment of the operating costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of Part Two of the Constitution. It's already written what we have to do and if we go by order, we can follow him. As far as equal bicameralism is concerned, it can easily be overcome, but certainly not by replacing senators with regional advisers or mayors. The mayors can also reach the Senate; I myself am mayor, like many others: we have arrived in the Senate, but there is no need for this to be provided for in the Constitution; a senator instead elects the citizens. On the other hand, it is possible to eliminate equal bicameralism by simply giving different tasks and functions to the two Chambers; the House will then deal with ordinary laws and the Senate, which will no longer give confidence and will not have the ordinary legislative power, will deal, for example, with ethical issues, local authorities and relations with Europe; and this has been explained on several occasions and on several occasions. A Senate then selected by the citizens, and parties - no doubt, for Christ's sake! - they will indicate and run for the best of them, the mirrored people, the best of the Italian people, those worthy of being called honorable senators, that is, worthy of honour, as has been said by someone in this House. What, though, is honor? The honor, in my view, is to fight for an ideal, not give in to blackmail, it is to defend the Italian people. Let us now talk about the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament. I do not think that this law provides for the number of Members of Parliament. It seems to me that this can be quite simple; for example, by reducing the number of Members to 400 and the number of senators to 100, we would have achieved, in a moment, with an amendment, the half-life of the number of Members and, therefore, a real and real reduction in costs, so much flagdierato by everyone, but never realized. In fact, just as it is designed, this kind of law does not reduce the costs at all, just for nothing, it is a mockery. It is therefore a very simple thing, written in the title, that we could have achieved with an amendment, which - I am convinced - we would have voted in this House almost unanimously (if not unanimously), because that is what we are all saying (and even those who do not say so). What would be achieved by reducing the number of Members of Parliament? Definitely a simplification of the operation of the administrative machine, as well as a real reduction of the costs. It would be even better if this Government were to commit itself to making the state machine a little more streamlined - perhaps through the modification of some Regulations - and succeeded in abolishing, in addition to the CNEL as provided for in the draft law), also that myriad bodies that all governments say must be abolished and that, as we have heard in this House from my colleague D'Anna, there are over 10,000, with as many boards of directors, in which some 51,000 people live in politics that weigh on the state budget, even if they often already have a salary. It would have been enough to do these small and simple things - such as the reduction in the number of Members and the differentiation in the functioning of the two Chambers - to achieve what everyone says they want to achieve, namely the reduction of costs and greater efficiency of the State. What are we doing? Or rather, what does the government propose to do? Meanwhile, here is the first problem: it is the Government that proposes us to do it, but it should not have been him who did it; instead he should have asked for a timetable of the bill and invite the Chambers to discuss it, because they should have been the ones to discuss the constitutional reform and to bring it into being, as a result of a hard work and a close parliamentary confrontation, with a certainly appropriate timetable. On the other hand, we are in a race that is meaningless or, at least, without any apparent meaning, but which probably hides a lot more, as many people have denounced in this House. So what are we doing? We will be faced with deputies appointed by Italicum and senators appointed to the Regional Councils, so the citizens will be completely deported and deprived of the right to vote, since, at the end of the day, they will decide all the secretariats of the parties, with a consequent anti-democratic and directist drift that will control the country and bring everything to the head of a party, or rather to its secretary. It's not Europe. Perhaps in order to find such systems we must move towards Russia, China, Korea or neighbouring areas, certainly not to look at Europe. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). In Bulgaria, too. COMPAGNONE (GAL). Yes, even in Bulgaria. I feel a great bitterness for everything that is happening, ladies and gentlemen, because it could have been avoided: it would have been enough to use that very simple rule that is common sense. We try to modify the Constitution in a handful of weeks, when we had all the time to work on it until 2018, the year of the natural expiry of the legislature, to which Renzi intends to arrive by his own admission. It seems right to me that we were all in agreement and all convinced that we were helping him in any way, even with sound opposition, so that in these years that separate us from 2018 we would do the things that really serve Italy, our citizens and our children, not that Europe asks us (because, you know, what Europe is interested in, but up to a certain point). This proposal does not achieve the objectives that are being promoted, namely efficiency and simplification, nor does it achieve cost savings, because the House does not suffer any reduction, since the 630 Members remain, while the Senate is being transformed into an amorphic entity and it is not true that it will have reduced costs. So it's just a big mess. The common sense, the reasonableness, by this Government was enough; a government of young people, whose impetus and the desire to change could be a great resource, and if only they had had a pinch of common sense, more respect for our institutions, for our history, all those things that we all want would have been realized. In this regard, another point that needs to be clarified is that we all want reforms here, perhaps more than we want them, and probably not, but we want to blame others. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] We wanted a fair reform, shared by everyone and probably voted unanimously in this House, as it should be. Instead we seem careless about the real needs of the people and the great crisis that is attacking us: just look at the latest data ISTAT that tell us about a poverty that meets about 10 million people, with even more dramatic data in the South of Italy. We should have, if we wanted to be serious and take the races and even the nights in here, discussed those important things that serve our people, that would probably have been properly greeted in Europe too and that serve to eliminate unemployment. Yes, unemployment, this cursed cancer that is attacking us, the real problem of Italy. Instead, we are dealing with perfect bicameralism and not with everything that can be put on the field to lift the country from the crisis, because someone has decided to take care of the interests of a part, of a party, pretending to bend consciences to this design, rather than thinking about the interests of the Italian people. This is dishonorable! This is truly dishonorable! Madam President, I conclude with an invitation to this Government (if you wish to have the kindness to listen to us): not to make pride prevail, but common sense and reasonableness. My invitation is to review this reform project, giving these senators, who are the representatives of the people, the opportunity to do what everyone has in mind to do, that is, a reform, drastically reducing the number of parliamentarians, both senators and parliamentarians, providing for the election of senators by popular suffrage and assigning different competences to the two Chambers, so as to eliminate the perfect bicameralism; all this to make the State definitely efficient, certainly effective, certainly less expensive and certainly more democratic. [[Applause from the GAL and M5S groups and Senators Candiani, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Di Maggio and Minzolini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u14	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u15	Madam President, frankly, I have raised a lot of doubts about the need for my words, because words may be necessary to the extent that they make a truth clear, indicate a path to be taken and are still heard, and we in this House - and we understand this visibly - listen very little. This is not a charge to individuals: it is simply the observation of a pathology that afflicts the institutions from long before the Movement entered here and from long before it was reasoned on the umpteenth constitutional reform to be proposed. This is simply a very bitter observation. Therefore, I came to mind the words written on the fragments that remain of the poem of Parmenide, in which Peithò was evoked, that is, persuasion, to accompany the philosopher to convince. Here, in fact, I have to convince, I would like to convince, but frankly I have many doubts. On the other hand, the doubt is still the traveling companion of those who must conquer every day certainty. Doubt alone corrodes and leads to self-destruction, but doubt can also be a useful tool of research so that one can get even a crumb of truth to be able to continue fighting because with you - excuse me - it is always and simply a matter of fighting. Sometimes, in fact, you just make people believe, denying the evidence, that you lack common sense. Before, Senator Companione spoke of reasonableness and, indeed, common sense. Here, with so many of you in private I have dealt with issues related to the process of regulation, the timing of the process, how to improve efficiency, the process so that we can produce no more standards - we do not need them - but better rules. I, in that regard, went to look for a quotation from Tacitus because it seemed to me that it was appropriate. Then, however, since the classics always have to teach us, I found another one from the "Annales" that I would like to propose to everyone's attention. Tacito wrote: "Veritas visu et mora, false festinatione et incertis valescunt". I am forced to translate it because we lost Latin and I first curse the moment when it was decided to make a choice that further condemns us to ignorance. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Buemi, Bruni, Liuzzi and Sciascia]] Culture is, in fact, openness and freedom and the negation of it is classism and is, therefore, the basis on which to build elitist societies. The translation is: the truth is strengthened through light and time, the lie is strengthened through haste and uncertainty. I found this quotation much more appropriate and appropriate than the other one that I remembered: "Corruptissima re publica plurimae leges," quote from many probably already evoked, because this reflection of Tacitus makes us understand that things must be done, but with weighting, with time and also with seriousness, that is, with a quality of action that too many times the haste does not imply. We, on the other hand, do not know how many times we are dealing with warnings for June 3, May 10, May 25. In short, things must not be done because there is a timetable that the former mayor of Florence has decided to impose on Parliament's agenda, but things must be done because they must be done for the country. The country cannot wait in this decline, in this continuous sunset that the current ruling class, which you deservedly represent, even if not with all individuals: there are also conscientious people who sometimes manage to give voice to their consciences even in this House and from whom I can only learn when they manage to free it. Interventions such as that of Senator Micheloni or Senator Corsini I personally would not be able to replicate them. I only mentioned two because there are so many people who have been listening. I would like these voices of conscience to be increasingly present in the public debate; a debate which was indirectly invoked by Vannino Chiti when, in the end, he mentioned a great contemporary philosopher, Jürgen Habermas, who stressed that in a democratic society should be the protagonist, not the ruling class, not the parliamentarians' world, but public opinion. Public opinion is that subject that acquires full awareness, even before its rights, of its duties in function of an acquisition of culture that you have not only denied us, but you continue to want to deny us through those policies on the school that - for example - the Undersecretary Reggi last presented not to serious parliamentarians, but to newspapers, which become belts of transmission of power. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Liuzzi.]] Now I'm going to try to get to the bottom of it. Minister, we must try - so I feel - to make things more efficient, that is, to speed up the regulatory process. Many of my wiser and more balanced colleagues, more aware of the mechanisms that govern Parliament, have agreed with me in identifying some passages that could be achieved through a simple revision of the parliamentary regulations. But we, who are children of a secular hypocrisy, do not say this because, if we say so, we would no longer have the headlines of newspapers and tgs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Instead, we must make constitutional reforms, even if useless and sterile, and probably harmful and able to orient ourselves, perhaps against the intention of those who propose them, towards an authoritarian drift. In the meantime, however, we must promote them. Very well, then how can you make the laws faster? By regulating the amendment phase and ourselves today - perhaps not today but tomorrow - we have to deal with 7,000 amendments, which did not, however, present to a large extent the Movement (which submitted a couple of hundred). These measures, however, can be taken through the amendment of the regulations, on which we must be very cautious and also very, very democratic because the debate must make everyone grow, and we first. You see, Minister, you are finally watching us and listening. I understand that it is difficult for hours to pay attention to a debate that, for example, should be brought back to more human measures: a general debate as we are accustomed to doing, with certain times and rhythms such as those of these days, is destined to remain largely unheard of and this is a demeaning of the debate and, therefore, of parliamentary democracy. So let us take action on all this, just as, for example, we do more work, because we can do it but not only quantitatively but above all with common sense. Since I was a member of this branch of Parliament I have heard the phrase: "We should work" - we always use the conditional and do not do as the Germans who prefer the indicative and say: "We have to work" - "much more in the Commission and much less in the Chamber." In the Commission we can, by working and listening to ourselves, create new majorities which are no longer the daughters of the government majority, but of majorities which are formed according to the measures that are assessed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, you can overcome the fenced opposition - Government and you can reason on topics and contents to organize variable majorities according to the popular will that, through what we are, that is, representatives, you can aggregate and disintegrate, time by time, according to themes and programs. But this may not be wanted by the machine maneuvers. Perhaps another aspect on which to reason should be the institution of trust, which in fact constitutes a shirt of force that blocks everyone and then allows the Government, incessantly, to ask and obtain it, branding it as if it were a clava, a mannaia on a parliamentary majority that is then afraid. This must make us meditate further on the quality of the political staff, which comes to be in the last decades more and more dense and frequenter of these classrooms, because the mechanisms by which it was chosen are to be rethought. Paradoxically, we chose nominations. We were able to produce anachocrits, because the choice should conflict with the nomination. In Italy, however, we were able to do this because in our country we are able to prove that A is not A. We have forgotten the principle of identity, but perhaps Aristotle and all those who have argued that philosophy should be a logical, but also ethical, heritage of all, no one excluded. Yet this is a society of exclusion, such as - for example - when it claims that more laws must be made and faster. That is not the case: we must make less laws, but we must ensure that they are enforced. We must not pursue efficiency, but the effectiveness of the law. How many laws do we enact without then being respected and enforced? Whose job is it to apply them? He's from the Executive and the judiciary. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] It is on these issues that one should reason. How many times are we forced to intervene in this House to lay down laws that must remedy the damage caused by other laws or by non-compliance with other laws? So, we have sanatoria laws, condone laws. That's not possible! The law is serious, because it is universal. In Italy, on the other hand, we have laws that intervene on everything. On the other hand, we are - and we glory in it - also the Byzantine grandchildren. In Byzantium, however, they were still thinking about the sex of angels while the Turks ejected the city. It seems to me that, in the face of an unprecedented social, economic and especially cultural and moral crisis, we are still looking for constitutional reforms that will save the country. We save the country with a very simple reform: the example or, if you like, the paradeigma. These reflections were proposed, over thirty years ago, by Sandro Pertini, who would kick in the butt - as he said - a certain ruling class. I always carry with me (almost as in a shrine) the names of those who formed me: Pajetta, Ingrao, Moro, Gui, Bodrato, and I could mention many others, even to the right (even to the right there were people who had a morality at least consistent). The various names I mentioned should be a formidable reference point for many, and not only for me or for us, but for all Italians. When I talk about everyone, I mean everyone, nobody excluded. In 1948 - should the reform also be concerned with this, that is, with reducing the costs of politics - did the status of a Member of Parliament allow those who held this position to be considered a privileged economically, or did it allow him to be considered socially a person most appreciated because the people recognized him as merits so high as to represent him with full dignity? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I remember, for example, Nilde Iotti, Tina Anselmi and many other people who brought lustre to this House and from whom we all - and I first - can only learn. With bitterness and almost with desolation, however, I am convinced that almost everything I have said will be useless. When I was a boy I tried to read - I managed it for four fifths, because it was a beautiful "mattone" - "The sunset of the West" - "In which Spengler claimed that civilizations should be considered biological realities, and therefore, like all organisms having biologically understood life, they had a phase of growth, a phase of consolidation and then a phase - if you want slow - of aging, sclerosis and then of death. I hope I can make a mistake, but it seems to me rationally that our country, in its ruling class, very often lives a kind of pathology for which it is increasingly scleroticizing, with those frenesias that then accompany, paradoxically, the aging. I started by quoting Tacitus, and in that quote there was a reference to a noun - festinatio - that is used by neurologists to indicate a certain phase of Parkinson's disease, that is, the stage in which you walk much faster, no matter how much the amplitude of the step is reduced. This is the fetinatio. Very well, our President-in-Office urges us to be faster and faster. Rather than fast, I would like to be aware, mature and wise; but more than myself, I would like - and I truly say so with my heart - that the Executive should respect Parliament, and especially the Senate, and have these values at heart. We, in fact, can put our hands on the Constitution (and you are doing it in contempt of the Constitutional Court's ruling, which reminded us that this Parliament would not have so many moral and political titles); but the laws of constitutional revision should be mutu own intention of Parliament, of groups or of individuals, and even less so of the Executive. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, caution is needed. I went to read what Raffaele Perna wrote (I would also like to quote him, even if I don't know him), who was also Head of Cabinet in a Berlusconi Executive and who, as Mr Calderoli reminded me earlier, as he was good was taken out. In Italy, in fact, there is the "demeritocracy": the more talent you have and you are ingenious and devoted to the institutions, the more you must be removed from them, because the important thing is to serve the men who take care of the institutions, and who occupy them, and not the institutions. Quoting Perna, I invite you to reason on how, perhaps, the real problem from which we are afflicted is not so much the equal, perfect or symmetrical bicameralism, but the flood of urgent decree that comes from the Executive. For example, a simple proposal - I would vote for it first, and with me, certainly, all the members of the Movement - would be optimal and would limit the power of decree and the power of the Commission to intervene on the timetable for Parliament's work. The Commission, in fact, has been forcing its hand, for decades now, on these sectors. On these, which are interventions of common sense, I think there would be no more right or left, PD, Civic Choice, Forza Italia or Movimento 5 Stars, but there would be a collective intelligence oriented by the polar star of honesty and intelligence that becomes ethical norm. Unfortunately I know that my words will not be heard, but I ask you, I implore you (I also use this verb): take a selfie (as your President of the Council says), use the camera and not the mirror and ask yourself whether what we are doing really has reason to be in a serious political and ethical perspective, or not. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the general debate on the draft Constitutional Reform Act approved by the 1st Commission cannot fail to focus on the issue of the country's leadership, on how it is formed and exercised. There will be time and way, when we look at the amendments, to deal with the specific points. Leadership, then. Opportunity. Risks. Unlike the Constitution that was drawn up and approved with broad convergence by a constituent Assembly, this reform of Parliament, which changes it to substantial points, starts from an agreement at the summit concluded extra-moenia at the headquarters of a party (the Democratic Party) by two people, none of which is part of the Chambers. This agreement remains the lintel of the decision-making process in place and is evoked by the two parties whenever the parliamentary dialectic puts its main points into question. Or rather, what the contractors believe should be the main points because no one, outside the narrow circle of the most trusted collaborators, can say in conscience that he knows exactly what the contents are. This agreement has resulted in a reform of the Parliament written by the Government. A practice that at other times would have been considered scandalous. Only Parliament can reform Parliament, it would have been said. But today a large number of people, including the majority of commentators, believe that the initiative can, indeed, be the Government's responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Candiani and Arrigoni.]] This change of opinion testifies to how the relationship between the electoral corps and the elected has changed, compared to seventy years ago. In the last century the electoral corps had confidence in the elected (in this regard I share the words of Senator Morra) and the elected throughout the West had gained that confidence with Roosevelt's economic and social policies. Democracy has had and still has several versions (presidency, semi-presidency, parliamentarians), but all have fueled the growth of the middle class that allowed to hold well and then to win the confrontation with the Soviet bloc on the international level and to win also on the internal plane by rejecting the extremists of the right and, even more, left with the effect of encouraging, among other things (useful side effect), the process of democratization of the communist parties especially in Mediterranean Europe. In the fifties, in a country like ours that was passing from agriculture to industry as a prevalent activity, from countryside to cities as places of associated life, parliamentary democracy, parliamentarism, was considered by all citizens the remedy to the failures of dictatorship and parliamentary democracy meant distributed power. Of course, government leadership was concentrated in Christian Democracy and opposition in the Communist Party, but those leaderships were institutionally contestable, even if only within their respective fields, given the division of the world into blocks and the Italian society discovered human wealth, first and foremost political, of free associations between employers, employees, craftsmen, traders, professionals. There was the state and there were intermediate bodies. Sometimes feared, always held in high consideration also for their ability to orient the vote in elections made with the proportional system. But with time everything has changed. The evolution of the economy and technology has disintermediated the democracy of the twentieth century throughout the West. The free movement of capital and the almost free movement of goods have put in the corner of states, governments, and have undermined the economic bases of welfare, of the root of our Western civilization, both those of a fiscal nature typical of Europe, and those of a corporate matrix typical of the USA. You will all remember the crisis of the big car manufacturers in Detroit because of the social and health costs arising from the agreements with the union (just to make an example that is close to us, as history, following the FIAT experience). The predominance of finance, the son of this globalization, has reduced companies to a source of monetary values, to be realized from quarter to quarter, rather than continuing to make them become more and more working communities, a source of monetary values yes, but to be realized over time because, after all, enterprises can also become a life project for those who promote them and for those who collaborate with them. In a world that knows in real time - just one click - the price of all things, but is losing the knowledge of values, the enterprise as a life project survives in the small dimension and constitutes a wealth, even ethical, of Italy; a wealth that economic thinking mainstream tends to forget. However, even this medal, this positive face of the medal, has its implications. Morality has a lot to do with the economy, even with the market economy. Adam Smith wrote "The wealth of nations," but also "The theory of moral sentiments": one cannot stand without the other. However, in this country of ours, which has retained an approach to the more moral economy than the Anglo-Saxon one, morality has been lost in the street, at the intersection between the function of the Government and that of the enterprise, giving rise to the Tangentopolis that are renewed, one sadder than the other. More: morality, which fueled the thrust of the constituent Fathers beyond political beliefs, then much more diversified than today, has also been lost in the relationship between politics and citizens. The first one got chaste. Beyond the many personal exceptions, this is the public perception, intermediated by the media. The more it has proved incapable of affecting real processes, the more it has done, avoiding, for example, the gradual marginalization of the middle class in favour of the concentration of wealth in the hands of those who are in charge of the flows of finance. The success, of criticism and of the public, of studies such as those of Thomas Piketty and - I add - of an Emmanuel Saez or of a Branko Milanović, shows how much the phenomenon is perceived as danger by the educated classes. The generality of the citizens has fallen back on their own particular, as evidenced by the data on tax evasion and abuse of all kinds (object of recurrent condonions), but also those on participation in the vote, which is increasingly low, as has also been seen in the recent European elections. If the impotence of politics is the deepest source of mistrust, in Italy aggravated by the perception of unbearable corruption, it is well understood how this distrust affects parliaments before governments. It is well understood how politicians with strong ambitions intend in various ways to subordinate the legislative activity, typical of parliaments, to the decisions of governments, whatever the form they take. The primacy of governability as a contemporary declination of the prevalence of ethics of responsibility on the ethics of the belief of weberian memory already dates back to Bettino Craxi and his battle within the left. With time and the deepening of the crisis of Roosevelt's golden age, the leadership of politics tends to mask its impotence with respect to the globalized economy by downloading on parliaments and, more generally, social representatives and so-called intermediate bodies the responsibility for a failure. It is a game of mirrors, an illusion that will last until the relapse in the crisis that manifested itself with the exemplary crack of the Lehman, but that originated precisely from the prevalence of finance over production, of money over man, which led to the downgrading of the middle class. The real emergency of the democratic West, while the variously authoritarian state capitalisms and the multinational nations without a homeland are affirmed in the world, is not the crisis of parliamentarism, which is also a fact of reality, but in the crisis of ideas, which first attacks the governments, the European ones (and the treaties governing the European Union and the European Central Bank), in the intellectual subalternity to the single thought and the system of interests, which constitutes its matrix and which has captured, beyond the Atlantic, the political system and the regulatory authorities. It is a thought - I regret to say - that reappears also in our Premier, who also aspires to be brand new, when he rejoices at the passage of Indesit's control to the American Whirlpool. It may well be that this is the possible solution to the withdrawal, also perfectly legitimate, of a family from the direct commitment to the risk capital of a large industrial undertaking, but at Palazzo Chigi should not escape that this is the most recent, but I fear not the last, of a series of passages of the property of large Italian companies, in which passage Italian capitalism, industrial and financial, has not been able to make proposals and assume responsibility to generate a replacement that holds back in Italy, today and tomorrow, the best energies. This is not nationalism. At the time, I hoped that, in front of thirty years of inconclusive FIAT, Alfa Romeo would be sold to Volkswagen, interested in the brand and the factories (repeat: factories) to make a second Audi. We would have had in Italy a second car manufacturer, a little more competition, a new subject for an entrepreneurial dialectic and maybe even a richer trade union. It wasn't like that. Today Marchionne promises to do what he has promised and has not kept many times. As Renzi would say, let's hope it's a good time. [[Applause from Senators Minzolini, Liuzzi and Paglini]] But that there is a crisis of Italian capitalism in dealing with the great dimension of the intrapresa, that there is a widespread abdication abroad, to other systems of interest, is a fact that should question us Parliament and you Government. And instead the government seems to stand in a vision, let's say so Bocconian, of foreign investments, without distinguishing between greenfield, always desirable, and brownfield, to be seen on a case by case basis. I can see that even the 'Finncial Times', not only the Labour Party, opens a radical debate on the negative industrial effects that could have in the UK the acquisition of the great British pharmaceutical company Astra Zeneca by the American Pfizer. Our renovators are still in the 1990s. I made this excursus between history and economy to anchor to the need and usefulness that the process of political decision in our country preserves a space for dialectic, for the different thinking: a real space, not a simulacrum of space. The concentration of thought in a single model enslaved to a single power, albeit elected, has already brought the world to the brink of an abyss as it was not seen since the 1930s. By selling itself as a sum of efficiency, this system has proved to be a sum of inefficiency. Now, the government proposes an electoral law, called Italicum, which tends to create a duopoly of the Democratic Party and Forza Italia: I speak of my home. It is an outcome that should be submitted to the Antitrust of politics, if ever this kind of Antitrust were there. Italicum handmaiden, here is this reform of Parliament, which tends to resolve the crisis of parliamentarism by abolishing the Senate, rather than seriously reforming it. I know that, formally, there is no abolition, even though this concept has been spent several times by the most authoritative pulpits. It is said to simplify, to make oneself understood on television, to communicate, because communication is the soul, not only of trade, but also of politics. [[Applause from Senators Arrigoni, Candiani and Paglini]] I am well aware that the Boschi bill, improved in some parts by the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the rapporteurs, Anna Finocchiaro and Roberto Calderoli, which I too thank for a commitment that they have made as if they were new Cyreneans. I know you're redesigning the Senate here, and it doesn't close. But the idea that the equal bicameralism, over which we all agree and there is no question, leads to a second Chamber whose members are chosen, one out of ten, by a audience of less than a thousand people, the regional councillors, who have not even had this mandate, this outcome takes away the authority necessary to propose themselves as a political institution, as a High Chamber, elected with a proportional method and therefore faithful mirror of the Nation, as an institution capable of interloquiring with a Lower Chamber, elected with a method however majority and depository of the trust relationship with the Government, holder of the law of budget and ordinary legislation. Already today the Government does not respond to formal requests from the Senate - I do not know if the House has done so - to report on appointments made in large public companies, which are worth more than the Ministries, in execution of a commitment that it had also made before the Senate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and LN-Aut Groups.]] Imagine how it will be charged to accountability tomorrow, when the Italicum and this reform of Parliament will be put into effect. In the world, where there is more respect for the circulation of money and goods than for the circulation of human beings, in this world where religious fundamentalisms flourish against civil rights and respect for the religions of others, in this world it does not calmly entrust all the real power to a single Chamber elected with an Italicum and therefore blocked by the party that can designate at one time the deputies and ministers, and also the President of the Republic and even the majority of the Constitutional Court, directly and indirectly. Premier Matteo Renzi shows that he is offended when he says that reform as he wants it is likely to reduce the rate of real democracy for the benefit of strong parties with weak ideas. But in formulating this fear, he is not accused, neither he nor anyone like him, of being anti-democratic. People should know that democracy is a variable compromise between representation and execution, between debate and action. His approach - the approach of those who inspire this reform - is a child of our time and has very little revolutionary. Allow me to close with the words of a Florentine who was not revolutionary, about how to elect the regiments of his city: If one deserves, he does not have to be a judge of details, but of the people, who is the prince and is without passion. The people better know each one of us that we don't do ourselves. Nor has he had any other purpose than to distribute things to those who seem to him worthy of it. The writer's name was Guicciardini. It was the year 1512. That is also true today. One last confession and I'm actually finishing. I must say that as a young man I was in love with the thought of Antonio Gramsci, and so I preferred Machiavelli, the supreme teacher of political science to Guicciardini. In time, reading also other, I understood the limits of the Florentine Secretary, especially with the reflection on the attempt made by his hero, Valentino, Cesare Borgia, to unify Italy - meritorious objective - with the dagger, the poison and the war and how and why that attempt failed. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u18	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u19	Madam President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think Mr Cucchetti is right when he says that communication, as well as advertising, is the soul of trade but is also the soul of politics, and communication in politics makes use of words, magic words that are used as an entry passport within the consent of the community. At the end of the last legislature there was a word that had become almost magical, it was a mantra repeated on every occasion: "liberalizations". We had to wait over two years from the liberalisations, which took place on the basis of that policy inspired by the principles of rigour, equity and development that characterized the Monti Government, to read in all the newspapers, a few days ago, how those reforms, with the liberalisations made, were a flop, a leap into the darkness that caused damage without determining actual benefits for the economy of our country. Why? Because in fact attention was created on the part of our community, at a serious and difficult time for the country's economy and not only - a moment that unfortunately continues dramatically and is exacerbated by intensity and gravity - but there was no real and serious liberalization, those on local public services, energy, insurance and banks. I also have the feeling that today there is the same spirit, that of using magic words to attract the attention of a community to the exhaustion of its forces, that it seems to have lost hope and confidence in recovery, a community that is on its knees, prostrated not only by the very serious economic crisis that we live in, but also by the even more acute and profound one, which is the crisis of values, the crisis of ethics of responsibility that should belong to all institutions, not only to political ones. One tries to attract the attention of our community dismays through another magical word: "reform". Well, what reforms? I am sorry to observe how daily newspapers give us a representation that those who on these subjects, which are of extraordinary importance, intend to open a debate all oriented to support with responsibility the reform processes that serve (and which have been serving for a long time) to the country are labeled as enemies of Italy, as subjects that try and tend more to preserve conditions of privilege than to think about drawing concretely and handing over real projects of reform to the country. Well, I will say it with great frankness and humility: I believe in reforms and I believe that twenty years of talking about reforms are the worst of the testimonies with which politics presented itself to the country. We have talked too much about it; we have done too little about it. Last week, as my colleague, Senator Casson, mentioned here yesterday, just as work on the draft constitutional law on which we are discussing today took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a conference with a significant title was held in the Senate: Constitutional democracy and the balance of powers. The Apories of Constitutional Reform. A particularly important speech has been made by numerous constitutionalists. I have to say that I assume and think that the influence of the reflections that took place there may have also affected the quality of the work of the 1st Commission, and that is why I would like to address my thanks to my colleagues in that Commission, particularly to my fellow rapporteurs, Senator Finocchiaro and Senator Calderoli. Of course, with regard to the text dismissed by the Government, what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken over has been the subject of in-depth discussions and substantial changes which have undoubtedly radically improved its content. However, I regret to say that I still consider the text a great mess. Perhaps here are the reasons for the title of that conference. There is talk of a balance between powers, which are the safeguard clause for the democratic structures of our Republic, which in this reform of the Senate seem to be weak and confused. There are also the apories that, on the contrary, fall upon this reform with copious perplexities, translating themselves into pressing questions and, in some ways, inevitable. Does this reform really serve the country? So how is it and how is it supposed to be put to the vote, it serves the Italians? Are the economic effects of this reform really able to produce a benefit to the country, to slow down or at least to reduce the very serious drift that is making our country slip towards an economic decline that most probably imposes, in the near future, the definition of a new financial law with a further frustrated to our country? Judging from the speeches that have taken place so far, which I appreciated for the depth, the breadth, the common sense that prevailed in the reconstruction, in the propositive aspects, in the critical evaluation, but also composed of the text that is offered to us, it seems to me that this reform betrays the expectations of modernization of the institutional architecture of our country. I have the feeling that it is little and few people like it. In short, it is far from the reform that had to be useful to the country for the institutional machine to become more efficient and less expensive. It seems, in fact, to be in front of a two-headed monster who, on the one hand, reduces the popular vote to mere contribution to the formation of a majority which, in turn, must only support the executive power, and, on the other hand, introduces the notorious indirect vote, with which one overcomes the perfect bicameralism. Far from it. I have the feeling that this reform offers instead the rib to a clumsy attempt, as dangerous, to overcome the bicameralism tout court with a non-elective Senate and made up practically of nominated without powers of control over the government and with reduced legislative powers, which however will be able, or risk being able, to block anything that is not good for the Regions. I say to the Regions, not to the territories and, therefore, to the citizens, but to the territorial representations to which, in fact, is handed over the power of prohibition. It seems to me that this was precisely what we wanted to overcome in order to facilitate the speed of legislative action in a balance relationship. This transports the country into a sort of hellish circle, of paralyzing and destructive conflicts of interest. How can we fail to think, with regard to Title V, of the risk that this excess of power and influence of the regions, especially in budgetary matters, will not end up being a breeding ground for development, blackmail and cross vetoes, with the consequent risk of paralysis of legislative action? A mess that turns to monocameralism, without even taking into account the arranged combination of the reform with the electoral law, and that I would call almost a time bomb, that risks creating an institutional jam, as well as an anti-democratic block, that everything will do, except to determine a simplification and a benefit for the life of the Italians. The overall vision is that of a political system that wants to close defensively in itself, against the pluralistic and participatory conception of democracy that is then the constitutional one. The stakes are high: these are the comments of Gustavo Zagrebelsky, President emeritus of the Constitutional Court. However, I could also mention - and I am happy to do so - the words of another constitutionalist, Alessandro Pace, who echoes his colleague, saying essentially that, apart from all the criticisms so far made, what seems indisputable to him is that the transformation of the Senate from elective to non-elective would not be a saving at all, but would be resolved, indeed, in a waste of financial resources. I know that even the words of these illustrious constitutionalists will not suggest to the President of the Council the use of less severe - and even more elegant, I would say - words in relation to the members of this House, who do not live in compensation and sometimes work even in a condition of objective difficulty and discomfort, because of the prevalence of an action in which the principle of parliamentaryism is stifled by the need for frequent recourse, more than is necessary, to the hegemony of the Government. I wonder if it would not have made any more sense to make a concrete reduction of Members and senators. Would it not have been more sensible to reduce the whole series of contradictions that were quickly created by the reform of Title V, with the law of 2001, because of the precise and precise division of tasks and functions between the State and the Regions, eliminating the concurrent legislation, as we did both in the XIV and XVI legislature, under the far-sighted leadership of the Berlusconi government? Dear colleagues, I believe that the legislative function entrusted to a single Chamber and the birth of the new Senate of the Republic, which sees the centrality of the regions and local authorities, are a leap in the dark, leading to the overturning of the Constitution, with the modification of the balances in favor of the Executive, canceling those burdens and counterweights that the Constituents knew skillfully to identify with wisdom and responsibility to give solidity to our young democracy. Not to mention the fact that the Regions, controlling the Senate, will raise a plethora of disputes with the State before the Constitutional Court. In this system - and I quote Giuliano Vassalli - lies the danger of a legislative stasis, almost a reform to increase conflicts. In short, the Senate - without powers, with few powers or with reduced powers - would paradoxically have the power to block and condition everything in the least transparent way possible, creating a mono-string and mono-colour oligarchy. Do we want this, colleagues and colleagues? Do we want to turn the Senate into a State House, subtracting it from the legitimate vote of the people? What would be the result of all this, perhaps governing our country better? I do not think so: the result would be to make the leader of the turn rule in absolute and blessed solitude, with the political control of Parliament, the Presidency of the Republic, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. [[Applause from Senators Nugnes and Scilipoti.]] All this with the risk, already experienced, of an authoritarian drift, which should make us all reflect and suggest common sense and caution in accommodating this suspicious acceleration and in accepting that the reform of our Constitution could have served Parliament and the Italians with unprecedented methods and contents absolutely inadmissible. Those same Italians who today face the fairy tale with a happy ending, tomorrow will ask us why our choice. We have a great responsibility. First of all, we have to ask who needs Senate reform. Does it serve Europe? We read today's "The Economist" to have the timely and precise response, taken away from the political issue that exists in our country. Europe does not even ask for this reform, contrary to what is being told as a mantra, in an absolutely irrational way and with news changes. If anything, Europe is asking us for reforms of the economy, labour, justice and finance. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 18.04 (Followed by ambersio lettieri). Does Italy need this reform? Yes, it serves if the reform is done well and we want to do a reform done well, because a reform done well is good for Italy, for GDP, it reduces the litigation, it gets the economy back on track, but it maintains without prejudice to the principles of democracy that are the basis of the history of our Republic. Therefore, here and now we have the right and the duty to honour the mandate received by the voters, because a good form of politics, which contrasts the wind of anti-politics, is the assumption of responsibilities. Here and now we must represent the Italians who want a more efficient country, not a less democratic country, with a parliament - perhaps - immemorial that that Constitution is the will of 100,000 dead, as Piero Calamandrei admonished. Precisely Calamandrei, in his speech to the young people in 1955, said: And then you understand from this that our Constitution is part of a reality, but only part of it is a reality. In part, it is still a programme, an ideal, a hope, a commitment to work to be accomplished. He meant, in fact, that that will was to be declined into concrete actions. The work must be done, not destroyed. Democracy corrects itself by adding democracy, supported Tocqueville, and was right. This is about the future of the country. You cannot send messages to the Italians at the limit of psychological terrorism, playing on the misunderstanding that you have to save on the public accounts. Let's get out of the drawers the costs of the policy that has lined up Cottarelli, rather than talking irresponsiblely about how to save on the costs of the Senate, adding zeros to the allowances and the total costs of this House. This reform, with a non-elective Senate, produces no savings at all, but disintegration of the state. Article 1 of the Constitution states: "Sovereignty belongs to the people." That article arose from the very hard and long anti-fascist struggle, the victorious war of liberation, the transformation of the State into the Democratic Republic by a popular referendum and the vote of a constituent Assembly that was elected by the people. If our constituent Fathers have thought of an editable Charter, it is because they focused on a proportional electoral model that guaranteed the contribution of all, participation. Today, when we are faced with an electoral model that distributes majority prizes, we must bear in mind the risks and find the right corrections that guarantee stability and democracy, in a modern, effective, efficient framework, which also means openness to popular participation. With such a tailor-made Senate that it does not respond to voters, it subtracts democracy and adds power to a new oligarchy. From the communists to the liberals, in 1945, everyone felt crushed by a common passion, by what Norberto Bobbio called the patriotism of the Constitution. This spirit is indispensable to give reforms to Italy. Already we must register as a serious anomaly the fact that there is no constituent Assembly, let alone if we can accept the liberticidal drift of a reform that was to be useful to the Italians, but it turns out useful only to the powerful in turn. In the meantime, I cannot help but conclude by quoting once again Calamandrei. You will all remember the famous epigraph: You will have it, comrade Kesselring, the monument you expect from us Italians, but with what stone you will build to decide it is up to us. Let this hymn of dignity, freedom and democracy be used for everyone in this House and outside. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senators Campanella and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u20	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was not easy, but, if we are to say the whole thing, it was not very fast either. After a long wait of many years, finally the Italian Government has decided to insert the standard costs into the Constitution. It really didn't happen of his own volition: there was a need for a push. The path that led to this important milestone was not easy and we are amazed that, after so much expectation, with an amendment signed by Senator Calderoli, the issue has been resolved. To all of you gentlemen perhaps escapes how much priority this result was not so much and not only for our movement (which of the standard costs, especially in the health field, made one of his battle horses both in the Chamber and outside) but rather for the interest of the whole country. In the country, as is known, there are regions that spend and spread in a reckless way and others instead of creating wealth and jobs, providing health service among the best in the world. And so, alongside virtuous regions, such as Lombardy and Veneto, a few kilometers further south there are Regions where the same bandages and medicines purchased by colleagues in Milan and Venice are paid five or six times as much. It is an abnormal and, above all, inexplicable difference. Part of the public money is used to subsidise dilapidated and even non-existent structures, Chinese boxes created ad hoc to drain taxpayers' money into the pockets of some local gentleman. Of course, though, someone has to pay for this crazy waste. There is much to say about years of waste and waste, and citizens will have to pay back their expenses. On which levers will the state recover the major economic disbursements if not increasing taxation? After so many years and after half of Italy's health care, mostly the southern one, was stationed to cover the monstrous deficits created in years of bad management, we reached this goal. However, Italy's slowness is universally known, but after this long wait we hope that the government will finally run to the bottom of the standard costs because the resources, we said before, are few. The country has less and less money, because of so many cicadas. We cannot afford, no one excluded, to continue to invest such resources as someone has done so far. Mr President, standard costs are the sacrosanct crowning of a season of convivial and harsh epochal battles fought without saving energy. Thanks to Senator Calderoli, the Commission succeeded in mitigating that wave of neo-statism and neo-centralism. However, this reform cannot be without the fact that our tax burden is 68.5%, against a European average of 46 percent. This means that our entrepreneurs already have at the time when they open the VAT number 22 additional tax points. The standard costs and requirements, referred to in the Constitution, are included in order to avoid Britishism, and are defined as the reference indicators for costs and requirements. I think it would be useful to add efficient too. This is a positive development. Their constitutionalisation could, among other things, mark the end of measures recently adopted. I am thinking, for example, of the bill no. 66 of 2014 that favours non-virtuoso entities. Mr President, standard health costs do not mean that we must all have the same disease. They mean that a CT scan, a syringe, any performance must cost the same amount in both Lombardy and Sicily. All this is included - thanks to an amendment by Senator Calderoli - in this reform to overcome the perfect bicameralism, a reform that has been recognized as necessary for many years. The President of the Council Renzi said that the reform of Title V is a real revolution. He also said: "I love this country too much to leave it to the brakes, to those who say no and disable other people's projects." But I do not know, Mr President, what other people's plans are, who do you mean? Then who are the brakes? As far as I'm aware, the owner of Brembo is in the PD line. And who is the Penelope on duty, who weaves during the day and pulls the canvas off at night? Well said Senator Caliendo in his speech. He asked the President-in-Office of the Council to come to the House to explain to all of us what his real plans are; to make it clear what his intentions are and whether this Senate, for the path he has in mind, is annoyance, a problem and an obstacle. He must say that, as soon as this absurd reform has been adopted, he will find any reason to dissolve the Chambers or perhaps dissolve only this one. On the other hand, he is also right: if he wants to command undisturbed for the next twenty years, it is the only system. I want to remind those who listen to us from home that the Senate had already voted yes to the law that changed the Constitution, with 170 yes, 132 no and 8 abstentions. So came the final vote in the Senate. It was the day when the path that the League had begun since it had appeared in Parliament was closed. Then there was - as everyone knows - the referendum. Someone said that there had also been a good turnout and the no prevailed for 61.7 percent and - by chance - the yes prevailed only in two regions in twenty: Veneto with 55.3 percent and Lombardy with 54.6 percent. Very serious was that Romano Prodi and Arturo Parisi respectively defined the reform approved during that legislature as dangerous and subversive. I wonder what Prodi would have said now if he had become President of the Republic. I wonder if he would have signed this reform. After all, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have already made a great mess. We are talking about the Provinces as though they are still open, but open, Mr President? The knots have been tightened, they are as tight as a past knot and now you have the responsibility to loosen them. You must have created an administrative monster. In this period of black crisis there are Provinces that have defended themselves kindly and others that have basically weakened even more. Perhaps the issue of macro-regions is not so peregrine. Just today, the European Commission launched an online consultation on the European Union's macro-regional strategy for the Alpine region. Let this consultation be a good one. Could there be more national cohesion and more unity with such a differently structured state? I don't know. It is in fact that we need it extremely much. The more freedom to be more united, Mr President, the freedom we have been asking for for for many years would be a good thing. And then a black note, Mr. President. I've been a local administrator and mayor for so many years. With your economic choices on the local authorities you forced the municipalities to unite, to carry out their activities together, and this for both the virtuous and the less virtuous Municipalities. You have blocked the initiatives, reducing to the bone the state transfers and forcing the municipalities to become the gabelllieri of the State. You led them to the potential closure of the Stability Pact. And then, Mr President, I approached the provincial administrations and here too, with one of the most unholy laws, you humiliated them politically and economically by fearing their closure, which has not happened and will never happen. Mr President, I arrived in the Senate and we began to discuss the closure of the Senate itself; then I attended a bit of the Region and with this reform you tried to empty its competences. Mr President, I was at a friend's club the other night, and I'm not telling you where his hands were when he served me at the table. He must have thought, "This brings some bad luck; won't it shut me down the restaurant?" In all the places where he went they closed it. To the restaurateur, who is my friend, I told him not to worry because I am not the one who brings misfortune. Someone also said that a man without history is a man who has no future. Let's see where all these misfortunes come from. Everything comes from the Nazarene covenant, a place where Renzi and Berlusconi met and agreed to a historical reform of the institutions, a sort of agreement-testament to be left in dowry to our children. Never was a place less suitable. I remember, for lovers of history, that this palace, the current headquarters of the PD, is called this because in 1622 Cardinal Michelangelo Tonti died there, said - precisely - the Nazarene. This cardinal in 1609 was released by Archbishop Paul V a will - a testandi Facultas - in order to be able to dispose at will of his immense riches, which would otherwise have been used to build the college of the Nazarene. That will led to judicial wars that lasted more than fifty years because the cardinal, with devious codicillos placed at the point of death, left everything to his family and his servants. So, colleagues, the will Renzi-Berlusconi could not have taken place worse to be written: a definitely ill-fated place. The only difference is that we will not have 50 years to oppose it, but apparently only a few days, at the behest of our President-in-Office. Of course, the material executor will not be Renzi, but they will be the members of this House. In addition, Mr President, there are words that have become true hydrovores in recent years capable of sucking everything up. One of these is the word "reformism": necessary reforms, urgent reforms, reforms requested by Titus, reforms useful to Caius. Nice reform of the 80 euros, Mr President! Will you not think that the 80 euros have ended up in supermarkets or stores? The 80 euros have ended up in the electoral polls of its Europeans. That we have contributed, even if only for a few change, to the coffers of the commercial activities that are in deep crisis? The 80 euros have been used to pay the taxes of every kind that you have put at the local level and that have reached an unbearable level and weight. Then, a small, but really small suspicion comes: why all this huge debate on the Senate, Title V and all that is around this reform? Perhaps because it is the palm of the victory to be waved in Europe, perhaps along with those who have won the world championship and perhaps throughout the European semester? In fact, it is much simpler and more medialy fruitful to wave the approval of this reform than to talk about other drinking issues. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the public debt has splashed in huge numbers, of the lack of work, of youth unemployment, of the issue of exodus and of the issue of public housing to the disrepair, of the subjection to a stepmother Europe and of a euro that oppresses the economy. Do we want to talk about the first, second and third so-called empty prisons, indult, amnesty, growth or, better yet, non-growth, negative GDP or, when it's okay, close to zero GDP, immigration? In this regard, Mr President, congratulations on what is happening in the South of the country: there are clashes that leave very perplexed subjects like us who, in the face of immigration, have always beaten their fists on the table. Why not remember the lack of a serious industrial plan, a serious industrial strategy, an energy plan for the country? What about foreign policy? By the way, Mr President: what about the Maròs? Let us put them in the Constitution; let us put them in the Constitution that, when these events happen, the Government must commit itself to bringing its children home and must not abandon them for years to their destiny. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Bell and Zin Senators]] Let's put it in the Constitution, I don't know whether in Title V or Title VI (I will ask Calderoli for the best location). It seems to me, Mr President, that the confusion reigns supreme, that talking about Senate reform serves to hide the flaws. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] To hide the shortcomings, the inability and, above all, the few ideas. When does the serious application of standard costs to health care? What about the job? Shall we talk about that? Yet he is present in the Constitution. And for the manufacturing industry, what has been a very important tow for this country? Is manufacturing the sector in which a great many jobs are sought? If the answer is yes, then let us stop, once and for all, saying that we need foreign labour: we do not need it, Mr President. Let's stop thinking that some small tax incentive is enough; nor can it serve a zero-point discount (I don't know how many zeros) on the electricity bill. We need money, credible measures, serious programmes, a net cut in the tax wedge and maximum attention for those workers who have lost their jobs. We can change Title V of the Constitution a thousand times, but if we do not do it in a serious and targeted way, not just one of these situations will improve: the unemployed will not decrease, nor will a young graduate find a job, nor will a young couple be inclined to put children into the world. It is very questionable that the 80 euro gift was flagged as a structural cut to the corporate tax wedge. I say that, Mr President, because you have a certain ease in changing the name to things and problems. The harder it will be to change the name, the more this country will not understand where and how you want to lead it. The government's in danger. It would be better if you wrote correctly those measures that have been so announced and flagged. Attention: the non-stick pots, at Christmas, in January of next year will begin to attack the omelette, and you will respond to this widely. The government sets the real and rigorous standard costs on which to measure local finance; only then will we have the opportunity to have political credibility in Europe as well, and you, Mr President, will have your palm to wave. I'm closing with a consideration. Attention: as you go up the stairs you will encounter one who goes down; but it may happen that the opposite happens, that maybe when you go down the stairs you will find the one that descended before now the climbs. A lot of attention, then. Mr. Renzi, you see, between saying and doing there is the sea, indeed the ocean. And be quiet, Prime Minister Renzi: it won't be the Pacific Ocean. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the parliamentary term from 1996 to 2001, the draft of the so-called Bicameral, chaired by Massimo D'Alema, was discussed and the constitutional law that led to the amendment of Title V of the Constitution was discussed. In the next legislature there was an attempt by the center-right to impose on the country the praise of Lorenzago, born from the pen of Roberto Calderoli, who fortunately rejected by a large majority with the confirmation referendum of June 2006. In the last parliamentary term, we changed the text of Article 81 by introducing a balanced budgetary trend into the Constitution. I was hoping that this Parliament would learn the lesson. Giuseppe Dossetti, Piero Calamandrei, Leopoldo Elia, Livio Paladin, all told us that the Constitution is not just any law and is not a matter of discussion like the others. The Constitution is not intangible: it is only too delicate to be treated as a nuisance and as the object of a reform similar to the others. The debate on the reform of the Constitution cannot be characterized by the synthesis of a tweet or by the haste of a selfie. At the same time, the Constitution is a source of law, a catalogue of individual rights and a table of values around which a community finds itself. It's a life project. The Constitution is a unitary fabric, a brilliant and sophisticated system of communicating vessels. You can't think of changing a part of it without throwing a hammer at the others. One example is enough. When the Constitution assigns a right, it cannot do so in an absolute key. It must include limits, but it puts the identification of those limits back to the law. It's called a law reserve. The reserve of law, however, has a function of guarantee, if the law must make the long way of bicameralism; it has another, if there is monocameralism. Today there is much and rightly talk of mafias, corruption and legality, but as for the guarantees of legality we know that the judiciary and the police must operate according to the laws. It may be that monocameralism is a good idea (the Communists supported the Constitution, the Communists supported it and the independent left in the mid-eighties and then Cossutta in 1998), but it is necessary to know that changing the structure and composition of Parliament has immediate repercussions on the guarantees of legality for citizens. Justice, social guarantees, individual rights: these are all legislative domains that will have a heavy impact on Parliament's reform. But Parliament is also an electoral college which, in turn, elects the President of the Republic, the constitutional judges, the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the authorities. We need to know when we change its nature and composition. Today we are not offered a monocameralism, but a differentiated bicameralism without, however, a coherent theoretical model and without a substratum of well-sedited experience. By grace, what consistency does he say that the Senate will perform important functions, but will it be composed of people who voters will not choose? And what logic is there in denying them the allowance, but granting them immunity instead? It is a very strange function that requires the legal guarantee of immunity such as that of Members of Parliament and not the economic one that has the same meaning in the history of Western democracies. On immunity, Mr President, allow me a parenthesis. A few days ago there was the anniversary of the events of Rome, Genoa and Reggio Emilia of 1960, those that historians synthesize as "July 60," that is, the popular rebellion against the Tambroni Government. In Rome, on July 6 of that year, in Porta San Paolo, there was a political demonstration attended by members of Parliament such as Aldo Natoli and Aldo Venturini, communist, socialist, and others. Well, the procession that they headed underwent the charge of the police who completely neglected that they were representatives of the people, members of the Chambers. It is not nostalgia or homage to the past, Mr President, the reasons why I mention this incident. I say that because you can recapitulate that we need immunity, in your true sense. On the contrary, it came back to Genoa in 2001 when the deputy Deiana was beaten by the police while manifesting peacefully and despite having exhibited her card as a parliamentarians. And it happened in 1926 when Antonio Gramsci was arrested by deputy in office, after Matteotti had been kidnapped and killed and Amendola beaten up in Montecatini. Immunity, Mr President, serves this purpose: not for the corrupt and the cheap thiefs who use them today. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups and Senator Albano.]] I come back to the point to take up a definition that I found in the 2005 parliamentary debate on the devolution of the right centre. It is a "truthless" model. It has been said that there are senates to indirect election, such as the German Upper House, and this would be proof that those who shout at authoritarianism are wrong. I have documented: the Bundesrat is the Chamber of Regional Executives, not the notables and territorial potentates. The Bundesrat makes sense because it is written in the German Constitution that the Länder enforce the laws: they are, that is, the main administrative centers of the country. The law is the responsibility of the Lower House while its application takes place at regional level. That is why the Bundesrat represents the local communities. But in the draft that emerged from the Constitutional Affairs Committee, what is the point of representing local institutions? The Länder also have fiscal powers. The Italian regions and municipalities have very few powers in this field and, in any case, the new letter e) of Article 117 of the Constitution, written by the Commission, focuses in the State the exclusive legislative competence in tax matters and coordination of public finance, by State here it means the Chamber and not also the Senate. Therefore, having also made the city council member to the budget, I am happy with this clarification but I ask in the name of what exists a Senate representing the local institutions, since on that essential point it will not be able to put its mouth. For the rest, I associate myself entirely with Senator Dirindin, who yesterday was clear and effective. The Constitutions are often compromises, but those compromises must be the result of a high and transparent meeting of aspirations, models of state, fusion of objectives. Think that, only suspecting what opaque surrender to the other side, Concetto Marchesi abandoned the constituent Assembly on Article 7, believing that between De Gasperi and Togliatti there was something less than commendable. That is why many of us senators wanted a more transparent and meditated path. Why do you insist that the pacts with Berlusconi must be maintained, while it is said that senators of your own party are "owls", conservatives, puppets? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is an offensive and institutionally dangerous attitude. In the Chamber, in September 2004, Sergio Mattarella, not exactly an exagitated communist, stated, quoting Aldo Moro, that the Constitution is the common house of all. And another authoritative Member quoted German thinker Häberle remembering that the Constitution is the mirror of a country's cultural heritage and the foundation of its hope. Our colleague, former President of the Republic, Ciampi, called the Constitution our civil Bible. We wish him all the best. [[Applause.]] I wonder and ask you: is this the way to rewrite large parts of it? In the draft Constitution that came out of the Commission there is in my opinion no Italy that many hoped, listening and looking at the Renzi delle Leopolde: there is a non-elective Senate associated with an electoral law so far with blocked lists; there is parliamentary immunity in the old-fashioned way; there is an increase in signatures for referendums and popular initiative laws. I ask Renzi and all of you: where is Italy open, free, participatory and above all contestable that the three million voters of the primary on December 8 expected? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Finally, to the President-in-Office of the Council, who recently mentioned Ulysses and Telemaco, I would like to say that for me the expulsion of the Proci means a fairer tax, certain penalties for the evaders, the enlargement of the tax base, faster criminal justice, an administrative structure freed from the interweavings, fight without district to corruption. Ulysses and Telemacus did not sit at the table with the Proci, and they did not make deals. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups and Senators Campanella and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u24	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first speech in this House, and I feel that in order to get to this issue today I must first explain to you the path, the reasons and the ways in which I intend to make my competences and my role available to this House and to the country. Some of you probably know my story and know how it happened that I am here with you today in this House, after the unexpected appointment that took place last August for me. That day I had an extraordinary man, in his intellectual and ethical capacity, whom I thank from the bottom of my heart for having decided that the representation of the world of culture and therefore of science should be strengthened in this House even with presidential senators. I've said several times that in this story the least important part is my name. That day was as if a light had illuminated the laboratories of Italy, the laboratories of chemistry, physics and biology, where young scholars work in which the sacred fire of passion for knowledge burns in body. These are people who first want to understand things they don't know. These are young people and older people who, from too many legislators, are doing everything - I fear - to cancel the horizon and the future and I do not understand why. In fact, science has been born in our country and over the last 153 years has been persecuted by great scholars, some of whom are and were here today in the Chamber, who have given so much lustre to our country, to Italy, and who have been a school in the world. I am referring to those great names that have fed the schools of physics, chemistry, biology, histology and genetics in the world. And how not to mention the formidable school of neuroscience, which is also my field of work, a school that has left its mark in the world and that was born between Pavia, Pisa and Turin. In Pavia he worked the Italian Nobel Prize winner, Camillo Golgi; in Pisa there was Giuseppe Moruzzi. In Turin there was a university professor, Giuseppe Levi, who had among his young and brilliant students Salvatore Luria, Renato Dulbecco, Rita Levi-Montalcini. It's a story that really excites me every time. It is the story of a master and his three students, all three awarded with the Nobel Prize. It had never happened before in the world and who knows how many centuries will have to pass before it happens again, if it ever happens. Well, this happened with an Italian teacher. Having good teachers is very important at every level. Among the students of Giuseppe Levi was Rita, a woman who at all costs wanted to study medicine at a time when women were not advised to study. She was a Jew in Italy of racial laws. When he emigrated to the United States he became famous for being the Italian who studied chicken embryos to understand how the nervous system is formed. That's all one would say. But his discovery has explained to us how our tissues, our neurons are formed and has opened immense worlds for us. Rita has been sitting in this House for a long time. On that day of August last year President Napolitano, in expressing his intentions, quoted Professor Rita Levi Montalcini, who died a few months earlier and told me that he had decided to appoint new senators for life and that among them he wanted to include a scientist, who was active inside and outside the laboratory. It was not easy for me to understand how my commitment to my country could be realized in this capacity. But I immediately realized that it could be a serious commitment, indeed very serious. I immediately understood the new role above all as a great responsibility to you, to this House, an obligation to seek dialogue with all of you, making myself available to anyone who wants to check with me the facts and conditions in the discussions on scientific, medical and research subjects. But, at the same time, I also feel a responsibility to today's scholars, whether young or not, because good ideas are of no age. Scholars belonging to any research agency and to every scientific discipline, who every morning cross the door of Italian research laboratories and begin the day as if they were every time leaving for an always new and unknown place, hoping to reach a goal, maybe then to see it disappear and, finally, conquer it only for never having given in to continue to research it and never to be afraid. My work in this House is also for all those of all ages who study with seriousness and honesty, without ever ignoring their work from a sound ethical structure, realizing every day what they do by spending public money and explaining why they do it, so always respecting the burden of verification of sources and acceptance of controlled facts. These young and less young people study, research and discover in all disciplines for our country. They carry out a job that I think is able every day to awaken the most authentic, disinterested passionate and passionate part of the human soul. It is with this serious commitment that I come to the Senate every week, to sit here with you, to learn and to understand how we can contribute to rebuilding a nation where citizens are satisfied and called to participate in the life of the country, to help you understand how to build a nation that is intellectually prepared and respected in the international confrontation on all plans and with a political class increasingly able to speak to all forms of intelligence and able to stimulate the immense abilities inherent in human nature. With my collaborators here in the Senate, a medical historian and an expert on constitutional law, we have created a dense network of colleagues and intellectuals, Italians and foreigners in different disciplines including philosophy, sociology, law and history - which for me is very important, it is fundamental reference in everything we do - but also agricultural, veterinary and engineering to help me understand, find and verify sources and facts, too, to be delivered to you. I am aware that the last word goes to politics. There's no argument about that. But I want to do my part so that policy, when it comes to decision, is as well informed as possible. It is obvious that the facts that I investigate and verify, with the only method that I know and that over time has proven to work regularly, that is, the scientific method, lead me to have positions that I too publicly express. But it has to be clear that I am still ready to change them, if anyone shows me that they are wrong, and I would like it to be so for everyone. My work has taught me that any idea I have, no matter how much I love it or have well thought of it, can be wrong. For this reason, those who make the scientist in a serious way open many paths and analytically examine all the thoughts that our mental circuits allow us to draw, I admit, always with the fear of leaving out some. That's how I learned on my skin what it means to see an idea fail that seemed right on paper, but that didn't stand up to the experimental test. I also felt the joy that comes from the conquest of new territories, where no one had ever been before, turning you maybe into the first man in the world to see that result, and then hand it over to everyone. And if you work in biomedicine, you also understand what it's like to be of help to help raise the hopes of those who can't give them to themselves. That is why I cannot ignore my training in this House for what it is worth. I also work in Milan, I have a team there too and I couldn't help it (there are 20 of us). When I'm not in the Senate, all my time goes exclusively repeat in public research, which I carry on as a professor in life expectancy, to increase our chance to discover more of the disease we study, facing continuous global challenges. There are twenty of us in the laboratory and, like so many other laboratories, there are twenty salaries each month to be found with the sole strength of ideas, which are put in competition with the ideas of anyone else in the world. And like other Italian colleagues, we can also win, working in Italy and Italy and challenging scientists who are at Harvard or Caltech. This is the Italy that I know, colleagues, that I frequent, that survives, that I think I can bring here to work with you. I believe I can only be useful to this House as a senator if I continue to be an active scientist and always proudly part of an Italian public institution, a place of study and training for future generations: the university. On the contrary, that nomination I admit that has given even more meaning to these purposes, having always felt that science cannot suffice for itself and believing insufficient a science that runs out inside the laboratories. On the other hand, I believe that science can only be said to be accomplished at the moment when it is explained, even perhaps with what confrontational puts on the table, and in doing so becomes part of the confrontation and civil growth of a society making available not only the results, but even more that immense value and that immense courage that grows in every mind that does not fear to explore the unknown, with new thoughts and with virgin actions. Because of this professional history of mine and as a senator for life, I thought that my role in this House should not therefore be to enter the daily political race, which I respect deeply as much as it does to provide, by any means accessible to me, information on the areas I know best, to help consciously legislate and to avoid tragic legislative choices, some even recent, that confuse citizens and that all of us, sooner or later, will pay in terms of freedom, knowledge and development. I would add that I am tending to be ready to trust the Government, because a country governed is a country that can plan a future, but the presence of an effective appropriateness of decisions and a democratic practicability are for me the prerequisites for me to be able to express favorably on issues related to governability. It is with these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, that I face every day the significance of my appointment, sanctioned by constitutional norm and without political affiliation. It is with these thoughts that I make this first speech in this House in the context of a debate that concerns a historic moment that I well perceive to be very important. I've read and listened and will continue to do so. It is said that, after years of discussion, it is time to move on to the facts and to dismiss a text or to implement a constitutional reform that corresponds to the commitments that Italy has made at international level and in any case to meet the expectations of its citizens. I studied with the help of colleagues. There are good and important points in the reform proposal. However, I think that there are also some controversial points, and I would like to mention a few (four) of them, because I believe that they must be clarified in this House, because this is the place that is supposed to do so in front of all the Italians. A first point, a very serious point raised by other senators, which I believe I have perceived, concerns the issue of the indirect legitimacy of new senators expressed on a regional basis. This is an issue that I do not think can be settled with the simplistic objection that otherwise there would be compensation to be paid, violating the populist dogma that preaches today only cuts in politics. I am therefore trying to better understand the reasoning on this point. The second point is that I did not quite understand the objection, expressed by some constitutionalists, that a Senate, whose members were directly elected by the citizens, could not be deprived of the relationship of trust with the Government. Thirdly, I think I have also understood that it is very important to provide for a constitutional model that reconciles - especially in terms of guarantees and pluralism - with the electoral reform being carried out. At the same time - fourth point - I also understand that the fundamental guidelines, the possible improvements, cannot be postponed to subsequent readings. I understand that where our text was approved in the House without any change, the subsequent readings would be of the kind; or anything or nothing. This would confront us, it would confront me with the serious choice of "taking or leaving," painful, heavy, important because, if wrong, it can affect the interests of the country, the citizens, the quality of our future democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups.]] We will discuss all this in the next few hours, we will discuss the amendments. Above everything I hope that we will continue to do so by making full use of the constitutional review procedure provided for by our constituent Fathers, which immediately shelters us from simplifications that are dangerous for the country. The aspect on which I would now like to focus, in closing my speech and on which I ask for your attention, is what I have described on several occasions as the proposal of a Senate that also includes specialist skills, useful to build and strengthen our relationship with the modern world. Dear colleagues, for decades words such as science, research, technology and innovation have been used in political discussions in my opinion only for rhetorical purposes, to be immediately excluded from Italian vocabulary and legislative circuit. In the last 20 years, unfortunately, scientific and technical expertise in these classrooms has often been destroyed. Yet I do not know what the future of a nation can be built on but on a solid, informed, aware and participatory democracy, also on these issues. Several times I have been amazed at how much competence I know, which I go outside this House, which is being taken away from us from other countries, have not even been recognized by Parliament, when not even ignored and humiliated, confusing them and mixing them with the words of improvisers, charlatans and incompetents. We have our children and grandchildren study in our universities to specialize in engineering for example. And we are happy and I was happy to hear our President of the Council proudly mention his meeting with the CEO of General Electrics, who told him of the skill of Italian engineers. We would be even happier and I would be even happier if these engineers were listened to and included instead of being set aside. Italian scientists achieve extraordinary goals in many fields. Everyone knows that over the Alps. In their country, however, they are often ignored and phagocited by the theories of conspiracy. I mean, we lose them every day. These skills are neglected, neglected and reached that seem never to enter the legislative fabric so that they can become a useful asset to the country. I feel that science policy is wary of. With all due respect, it seems to me that much of politics does not even know what science is. Even science is now wary of politics, for the same reasons. Yet they should be allies, science and politics; one to seek the facts, the other, politics, to acquire them and then to start from there to discuss the social, economic or ethical values associated with those facts and, therefore, to legislate. And citizens made aware and informed to be a sentinel and to check the validity of those choices. This is for me the last word of politics: not to ignore the fact-finding or, worse still, to invent or manipulate them in order to support mere preferences and opinions not supported by evidence. The hearings are a very important policy information tool - I have experienced this in the Health and Health Commission - but I am afraid they are not enough on some issues. I believe that, in order to address such complex disciplinary areas, such as those dealing with science, innovation and technology, we must act differently, creating first of all confidence, that is, abandoning the fantasy that there are only Dr. Frankenstein on the other side, scientists who want to do their own interests, (as I have often heard), or researchers who are bent to the interests of the so vicious multinationals or vice versa in these classrooms, as some citizens think - who do research, teach or take care of others - there would only be corrupt politicians or nothing in them. It's not like that and it can't be like that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u26	I invite you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u27	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). And then, ladies and gentlemen, you can and must distinguish, and you can only do so by studying and looking for the difference. Taking inspiration from a proposal born on the pages of the cultural supplement of the Sunday of "Il Sole 24 Ore", I had therefore imagined and proposed a reform of the Upper House that rearranged the Senate, as well as as as a seat of composition of territorial interests - on which I do not pronounce - also as a place where these scientific and cultural excellences could be elaborated and participated in it. The proposal was to include this knowledge base in the democratic representation circuit, so that discoveries or innovation would not always and only benefit the researcher, his agency or his laboratory, but would enter the legislative circuits to be useful to the country. On such complex issues, in which the rate of renewal is so rapid, I have the impression that only those who continually engage in international frontier challenges, i.e. who are at home on the paths of science and are protagonists of them, can quickly shape legislative policies that can transform scientific achievements into social improvements. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please conclude, Senator Cattaneo, it has gone far beyond the time allocated to you. CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I would like to thank Mr Calderoli and Mr Finocchiaro for having also addressed this aspect of these competent senators. I have tabled a number of amendments to re-launch their number and also a further reflection by Parliament on this issue, but of course this is a perfect proposal. I conclude by saying that, before the President of the Republic honored me with this appointment, I would never have imagined that to the civil passion for the institutions, which I cultivated as a common citizen, I would have added the opportunity and the honour to confront you with these decisions. It is therefore with the dedication of the neophyte, but also of the person who cannot be ascribed to any party or to political calculations, that I will work with you, to enhance in the political discussion, for the benefit of the country, the use of evidence, sources and logic and the reference to facts and experiences. In the end, my vote will manifest, in the manner I think appropriate, my point of view as a scientist and it is with this disposition of mind that I will follow with you the work of the next days. [[Live applause. Congratulations.]] I would ask for permission to attach the full text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u28	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u29	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u30	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues, fellow citizens who listen to us from outside - fortunately - I will try simply to express my point of view and nothing more (i.e. to enter into the very complicated mechanisms of the reforms, such as the one we are discussing and analysing today). I have also tried to review my own path and that which took place here, within the institutions, in an attempt to understand whether the method used was the correct one. I tried to figure out if there were any forcings. Then I'll try to explain it quickly. With the birth of the XVII legislature, the arrival of the President of the Council, Letta, from the point of view of the method and the forcings, was probably not the most correct, because it is the result of an expression that did not emerge from the ballot box, not from the electorate in the ballot box: no Italian citizen voted for a single party formed by the PD and the PdL. So in that case it was definitely forced by the then President of the Republic who assumed responsibility, because the country was in an emergency situation and therefore perhaps forced for the umpteenth time the hand, but the legislature started. The opinions must always be respected, different opinions compared to those that we of the 5 Star Movement have expressed. Then there was the election of the new President of the Republic. Even in that case, from the point of view of the forcings, probably the method was not the most correct one: in the Constitution there was not written the possible second re-election of the President of the Republic. We have expressed, together with many other citizens, a President who could be of all people, who was not a member of our political force, that is, Rodotà. So, we realized that maybe there was another force; until now we have not quite understood what the real motivation could be, because we citizens are a little naive. I listened very carefully to the speech of the President of the Republic, who spoke of a forced force that has been made in the past, that of the decree of urgency. I had just arrived, so I couldn't even understand what it meant. In time I understood that it was also a coercion: that is, the Government imposed decrees and Parliament could not discuss and analyse the proposals that came from Parliament itself, from parliamentarians. Then I thought something could be changed. No, we have not; even in which case, ladies and gentlemen, we have all accepted yet another force, because no one has stood up to tell the then Letta Government that Parliament must be respected and therefore we must deal with the matters that Parliament, not the Government, imposes with greater priority. We approached the summer and naively proposed what we think could be a good idea for ordinary citizens. I am referring to the bill No 452, which I was particularly interested in in, in fact, in 2008, when, with my profession as an architect, I made an active policy by going down to the streets and asking myself what happens in those institutions for which I voted and respected a proposal for a popular initiative law called "Clean Parliament" was born, in which some points were fixed. I would remind you that we are talking about two branches of Parliament which are representative of the citizens and the expression of preference. The citizens called for the possibility of expressing a preference and choosing their own representative, the amendment to the electoral law and therefore the incandidability of the condemned. We are talking about people who have already been convicted, respecting the three degrees of judgment. These should not, in my opinion, and of the other 350,000 citizens, enter the institutions. You don't want politicians for life anymore. So, we thought that by engaging in this very delicate and very difficult work, of which I am also realizing personally, two mandates to the maximum could be fine, but also here a forced force happened. I remember that that day the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Finocchiaro, stood up and said with great force that this bill could not be discussed urgently. Mr Boschi, at that time we were saying that reforms could be made. We were willing to make them, and we put on the plate a proposal that came from the citizens. At a distance I wonder why the Government, which is roughly the same, did not take this opportunity and request that came from outside to jump and began to discuss following a path that could be precise also from the temporal point of view. He said no, and here is Senator Finocchiaro, who we find today as rapporteur. Thank you for the enormous effort and for the work you have done both in the Commission and today: you have been here all the time from the beginning to the end listening to all the speeches, even the most out of place or the most central ones. With the other rapporteur, Senator Calderoli - perhaps in politics we never discuss the opportunity - we had the opportunity to talk about Porcellum. The law departed from him, even though it was later modified. I do not remember, however, that Senator Calderoli went out on the street to say that they had upset a beautiful law and to be careful because the law was unconstitutional. He knew it; he said it a thousand times; we all know that law was unconstitutional. In December 2013, after nine years, we discovered that the electoral law used in this country was unconstitutional because it did not respect the Constitution. So maybe even on the spot in the past years some forced force has been made. In the meantime there has been - I say this with enormous respect, colleagues of Forza Italia and the New Right Centre - also the vote on Senator Berlusconi, which perhaps has been expressed with some force. In a democratic way, however, a decision has been taken by all political forces and former Senator Berlusconi has left Parliament. And let's move on. In the meantime, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Letta, is distrusted, but he does not go within Parliament to explain the real reasons. Again in a vision that is not healthy, healthier, explains it through a press conference, explains the new program. At that moment, the new President of the Renzi Council appears charmingly and he comes out with a new team. Despite this has been a forcing, I tell you with sincerity that the fact of confronting myself with people who, from a historical point of view, are closer to my experience can be a factor of facilitation. But it wasn't. In an analysis of what happened, I realized that no citizen voted for the new government. I realized there was another force. The President of the Republic who has been re-elected, and therefore the new President who is then always the same, has assumed another great responsibility: that of giving the mandate to President Renzi, who presents himself as the new who wants to destroy everything wants to accelerate. Which I fully agree with: wow, finally there's someone who wants to whip. But - alas - after a few months almost all of us realized that perhaps the acceleration, the direction he was giving was not the most correct. A rewriting of the Constitution is not done - in my humble opinion - by this method. I agree with Mr Gotor when he says that citizens should probably, or almost certainly should have been, informed: the meetings of the 1st Commission, in which it was analysed in detail in what is written today in this text, should have been advertised in a better way. Then I ask myself: is it convenient for someone to keep the people ignorant? Is it good for someone to continue not to explain things to Italian citizens in the right way? I'm not telling you what I think about that. In this reform we have again seen immunity given not only to the senators, but at the same time - as far as it is envisaged - to the regional Members and mayors who will come here to the Senate. To explain it briefly in a simple language - in here, fortunately, there are those who turn to scientists, but there are also people like me who, from healthy populists, turn to citizens - the reform of ping pong is under consideration. That's what you're trying to do. You move a regional deputy, you send him to be a representative to the Senate and maybe you even take some mayor, to whom you say to come to Rome, but I didn't quite understand in which days and if here: he could also be in a games room, where you can practice the game of ping pong better. However, this representative is not voted by the citizens, because - and this has also been done - regional representatives will vote for future senators: citizens will remain ignorant at home and will always participate to a lesser extent. At a time when this reform is going towards reducing citizens' participation in political activity and public affairs, when we do not have the feeling of understanding that it is not good that citizens do not go to vote (and that, if we do not seek together the means to bring citizens back to vote, we have all lost), when everything is set like this, then what has been called an authoritarian drift happens, perhaps we are projecting towards something darker. It's probably not a jump in the dark, because we're already in the dark! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I do not know if there will be the strength, the will, on the part of everyone to raise their heads, to understand what is happening and to say no to reforms made in this way. Because we can do the reforms: we can abolish the Senate, the Chamber of Deputies, the Regional Councils, the Municipal Councils. Everything can be done, as long as it is methodically; I repeat, the Constitution can be changed, without asking and perceiving the emotions felt by the person who wrote it and without trying to understand the ratio. Perhaps there is some presumption on the part of many, even by the rapporteurs. I do not know if they are up to this task, but they will have the opportunity to say so. In fact, Senator Calderoli has already expressed his doubts and, therefore, will certainly express, together with the Lega Nord Group and Autonomie, a vote against and will help us to oppose this reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, we are very close. I hope that the other rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro, too, with the right intellectual honesty that we all recognize, will take a step back and say that this constitutional reform is not good in the method. We would do a useful service to all citizens, but also to all parties, because this would not be necessary to disagree, to stand up to express its opinion, perhaps at the risk of being put out of the party itself; everything we have said could be applied and implemented. We could do a great job of synthesis through the interventions carried out during these works.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u31	I invite you to conclude, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u32	SANTANGELO (M5S). Then, if this statement is made by a representative of the 5 Star Movement, who here forcefully told you: "Everyone at home," then maybe you should understand that something is changing. It's okay for everyone at home, but with the right method. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Maybe not everyone at home, but just a part. Witnessing is what always happens during the work. For example, at this time we could be about a hundred and, with one or two senators for life, this could be almost the number of people present. It could be general evidence of something that doesn't work! I'm about to finish, President Grasso. Today you made statements and I take the opportunity to leap. Of course I understand your role and that as President of the Senate it is not easy: you are the captain of this ship and it is clear that you will not abandon, as others have done, the ship that is sinking. But I'd like to warn you, President Grasso, this ship is sinking. President Grasso, do something. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Take position as you have already done... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u33	Excuse me, Senator, the interruption was involuntary. I'll give you your word back, but finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u34	SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm about to finish. Mr President, as you have taken your position by taking the floor... I pointed out that it was involuntary. SANTANGELO (M5S). Do it somewhere else. Thank you, Mr President, as kind as ever. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u35	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u36	Mr President, I believe that really, seriously eliminating prefect bicameralism is now a moral obligation rather than a political one and that no one, not even the most hostile to reform, denies it. As we have heard so many times, the text that came out of the Commission has more than improved - and we are grateful for the work done and for all the critical, even very critical, positions - the government proposal, which did not have a precise focus. It has changed it even in substance, because it has given it a net plant, which in the end is that of the Regions on the German model. I am also very pleased that it has extended its functions to a number of European issues and that it has allowed greater guarantees regarding the election of the President of the Republic. So, one can disagree with the system, one can prefer the French model, as well as one can disagree on many points, but I really believe that to continue to support direct election - I say this to many people and, in particular, I think Senator Minzolini, who has been paradoxical about this - is not to want to change the nature of that adjective, that "perfect" that is the Italian anomaly, with which we have been fighting for decades. The call - it has been made many times, but it should be articulated, thought and reconstructed - goes to many failed attempts, not only to the more recent ones of D'Alema and Prodi, but well before, to those of Ruffilli and Martinazzoli. In this House, in these long hours of debate, these days, the names of the great constitutionalists are re-enacted with nostalgia and regret, often - and it fills me with amazement - by the mouths of the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. I address them in dedicating this very significant fragment of history, which I have already mentioned on other occasions, which is known but, it seems, not to them. In the scheme of a hypothetical Italian Constitution, in June 1946, President Meuccio Ruini, then President of the Commission of the 75 who was waiting to draft the draft Constitution, was a bicameralism differentiated (in 1946!), with a second Chamber of Regions and economic, cultural and spiritual interests. He opposed those who would want a dominant parliamentarism over a weak government and did so in the name of a strong and stable government. It also provided, as we know, the functions and the possible composition of a high court of constitutional guarantees (which will then become the Constitutional Court). In short, in terms of institutional architecture many preferred to strengthen the President of the Republic and the Head of Government. Despite being out of fascism, one tried to propose a framework of greater governance and stability, seeking in all ways not to exceed in the powers of Parliament, precisely to avoid an exhausted parliamentaryism that, since the beginning of the twentieth century, had accelerated the end of democracy. In fact, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, many times parliamentaryism - let us think of the crisis of the end of the century and of Giolitti - led to the opposite, it was all the opposite to a strengthening of democracy: it led to fascism. So much so that the solution of a differentiated bicameralism could not continue also because of fear and the need to give counterweights that saved the so sweaty democracy from drifts that were the result, actually, of a lack of decision of governments that were unable to decide (but also for the need to control themselves from the major parties). I finish this pathetic lesson, but it always seems to me that there is a need, to go further coarsely to debunk some taboos that are echoed even in these long hours and that have been repeated in these long discussions. The first is that opposing the change of Part II of the Constitution would be a matter of conscience. (at 19.28) (Following FATTORINI). I find this reasoning very peculiar. Here too it is a very simple speech which, however, does not return much. If the first part of our fundamental Charter gathers the inspiring, moral and founding principles, precisely, of the common consciousness, of our people, of our nation, the second part does not. The second is editable and needs to be changed. It does not concern issues related to life, death, science, destinies, it is not a question of bioethics, it is not a final question. We must not sacralize Part II of the Constitution as if it were a text of the Holy Scriptures, for believers (I am always referring to Senator Minzolini who seemed to want to pray to us). Of course, we must do this very, very seriously: sometimes it does not happen and sometimes it has not happened, but the Commission's work has done so much in this respect. The second great taboo is this risk constantly evoked of democracy and drifts, of authoritarian drifts, in particular. Obviously, it's a central objection, the mother of all. Who is not for democracy? As if those who want reform did not want it and this is a heritage to be guarded for dissidents. So it's very central and it's an objection to take very seriously. The problem is that it must not be conducted with the categories that seem, as I said, even more obsolete than those of our fathers. This reasoning completely ignores the very idea of how democracy has changed. And not only from the idea and concept, but from the sensitivity, from the practice of democracy. How democracy has become in our country has profoundly and absolutely changed, in the sense that what the threat really is the total ineffectiveness and extraneousness of politics from decisions, that is the gap of politics in being able to decide. Decisions that alone can change the concrete life of the people who guarantee the same democracy. In short, the real threat of democracy is not to decide, and this should be well known by our colleagues of the 5 Star Movement Group who fill their mouths for hours, in an exhausting way, with the word democracy, just them who, with their democracy on the net, choose their parliamentarians with those 50, 80 clicks from which we started at the beginning of this legislature and which are still there. As democracy has changed, so politics and policies have changed, as they are demonstrating and that is why it is confusing (and this is the third taboo that should be clarified) authoritarianism with determination or even with decision-making (certainly, it is an extreme) that must obviously have (in this respect I fully agree with all the perplexities) a root and a parliamentary mandate. But if this connection between decision and Parliament, between decision, participation and representation jams, if it stops, we must reactivate it, as in a body we must bypass a sclerotized vein otherwise the body dies; democracy dies, the one that is so dear to everyone here. He dies with the body of the nation. How do we do that, what do we have to do, where do we have to go to figure this out? In certain speeches I feel either naivety or, even, bad faith. And we come to the fourth taboo, which is always a corollary of abuse, of distortion of the idea of democracy. I hear many colleagues, whom I really value, who evoke Tocqueville, another very quoted author about democracy. But for him, liberal democracy (insisting on the liberal term) was not an exhausting parliamentaryism. Far from it! In Tocqueville, the idea of democracy is quite different from that of inconclusive parliamentaryism. Of course, we must monitor (this is another taboo to touch) so that the decision and also the decision-making in which we are at this stage do not identify with a permanent emergency. An emergency, a hastyness, a vitalism that justifies everything even the insult to those who disagree. This is serious: I express great solidarity with those who have been the subject of it. You cannot accept the argument of the end of the Senate because it costs too much or brand dissidents like those attached to the chair. This is unacceptable. But we must not fall into reactivity to these obvious mistakes, to these excesses of decision-making. A reactivity that contributes to feeding - yes - a true authoritarian drift. But we cannot be confused, we cannot support this reactivity with reasons that are objectively conservative resistances, because these conservative resistances are those that really paralyse, as I have said so far, but also impoverish and feed the a bit superficial dimension of this hastyness. In fact, we must - and this is the point on which I would like to conclude - contribute to increasing the importance of political cultures, to these which, in my opinion, are objectively conservative and which are somewhat trivialized (if you will allow me), and to these new ones that want to reform and change perhaps too much and so I do not say too quickly (because the haste, in my opinion, is also too little), but not with the right deepening. It is a problem for all to have a greater thickness and awareness. In short, this is the only way, moreover, to overcome a scissor between regret of the past and this hastyness too vitalistic. Here comes into play the role of intellectuals, so-called professors, otherwise divided between those who want the reform and those who do not want it. I address them above all (I have dear friends, like my colleague friend Corsini): we do not look at everything with our heads turned backwards, dear Paul, we must turn forward otherwise, as the Greek myth evoked us, we block ourselves and become salt, we and not only the object we look at. It is a sad heterogeneous of the ends, especially for those who are historical and political and, therefore, wants to interpret things because they change, as someone dear to this tradition said. Well - I start to conclude seriously - I, as you have understood, I express myself convincedly for a reform that returns to the original inspiration already of our Constituents, that of a true bicameralism differentiated. You see I'm here on these benches for the first time without being a politician, but a teacher. When, in the early days, my students asked me for an impression of this new experience that I was living, I was very embarrassed to tell them that the first devastating impression I had from the Senate was - unfortunately, it was confirmed - his carousing inconclusion. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u38	Mr President, I am a Member of Parliament who, as a candidate in Lombardy for these elections that elected us, has campaigned with his colleagues to overcome the perfect bicameralism, to change part of the institutional system and to reform Part II of the Constitution. I am a Member of Parliament who, with his party and his secretary, has made the last election campaign (the one for Europeans), asking for a vote also to give strength to a reform project that included the creation of a Senate representative of the Regions and local self-governments. I want to remember these things not to claim improbable automatisms or an electoral result, but to say that for some time we have not considered Part II of the Constitution untouchable and that those who claim that this debate is a whim, suddenly put on the field by the Government for a strange authoritarian vocation, a weapon of mass distraction, are not right. We are discussing a reform that we have said is necessary and that we have been trying to do for thirty years, and we are trying to do it for the country. It is not a decision-making will to say that it is time to do; that this is the time to do; that this is the time to make reforms; that perhaps this is the last opportunity we have. This is the time, we'll have no more. In fact, one thing I am convinced of: in this country democracy is not endangered by constitutional reforms, but it will be in danger if we do not do reforms, if we do not do them. I say this to my colleagues in the SEL Group and the 5 Star Movement: our democracy is not well, it is not healthy as it seems from some intervention. The distance between politics and citizens, the loss of credibility of the institutions, the distrust that the crisis has aggravated: these are the risks that our democracy runs. We are already running them and reforms are an opportunity to reverse the trend, to restore strength to our institutions. I am convinced of that and I am convinced of it because it is true. It is right who says that the evil, corruption and the excessive weight that the parties have taken on in recent years are among the reasons for the crisis of the political and democratic system in this country. But all this cannot make us hide that the theme is that institutions do not function as they should and appear far away from the concrete problems of people, their present and their future, especially today that we are in a time of crisis. That is why we need reforms. To give answers to this, to renew the tools of democracy, to restore credibility, to show that one really knows how to change, looking at the needs of the country. We need to change to strengthen our democracy. On the other hand, the Constituents themselves had foreseen that the Constitution could and had to adapt over time to changes. The work of the rapporteurs and the Commission together with the Government has given us a text which I largely share, which draws an institutional framework consistent with the debate in this Senate and beyond, which takes into account the issue that many people have waved in this House of guarantees, institutional balances, weights and counterweights. You overcome the perfect bicameralism and create a single Chamber that gives confidence, elected directly by the citizens. A Senate that represents - this is important - the territories, regions and municipalities, to which clear and important functions are conferred by the text fired in the Commission. A Senate that must represent the Regions and the Municipalities and for this reason is composed of representatives elected on a proportional basis by these bodies: not appointed, but elected by the regional councillors, who in turn are elected in all the Regions with preferences. We're nominated. We're all nominated. I believe that we must not hide, that it is right and natural that a different legitimization is linked to the different nature and function that we attribute to the two Chambers, according to a revision of Title V useful to overcome the limits of the current text and to reduce the disputes, which however - as it risked to do the first text of the Government - does not empty, but rather enhances the Regions and local authorities. Of course there are open issues. Many have strongly raised the question of an election of the President of the Republic that is not linked to the possible majority election of the House. A useful choice has been made by the Commission to establish qualified majorities for the first votes. Maybe it's not enough. I am one of the signatories to Senator Gotor's amendment proposing to extend to European Parliamentarians the audience for the election of the President of the Republic, which would ensure a greater balance, also being the MEPs elected with the proportional system. What I find anachronistic, however - I want to say to Corradino Mineo but also to others - is that one cannot speak from a part of authoritarian dangers and then think of the direct election of a President of guarantee, as many have already said. Then I think there is one topic on which we still work, which is that of representation. I would like to make one thing clear: I think that the solution found on the repealing referendum is right and that it gives more strength to this instrument. I would like to remind everyone that we are intervening on an institution, that of the repealing referendum, which is in crisis, and not because there are too many or too few signatures to be collected, but because, by providing for the need for 50% vote of the electoral body, this instrument is emptied. It has been emptied in recent years: the instrument of non-voting and of missing quorum has become a decisive instrument that has prevented the true expression of citizens. And the Commission's proposal on this, by introducing a percentage of those who went to vote in the last elections, gives the opportunity and will create the conditions because the repealing referendums that will take place in this country will be true, no one will be able to play anymore on not sending people to the vote. The House can do more, and perhaps it can do more and better to make the proposals for a people's initiative more effective. And again - and I insist, because I want to reassure everyone - I personally believe and my political part thinks that the referendum confirming constitutional reforms should become a rule and not be linked to the percentage of Members who will vote on this bill and therefore I believe that this reform will have to be submitted to a confirmed referendum even if it reaches two thirds of the votes in the Chambers. I do not want to be a judge of this debate, but I would have preferred a debate in this House that focused more on the substance and less on the roots. I believe that this would have deserved and deserved the work done by the Commission, the rapporteurs and the responsibility we have towards the country. I really believe that in this discussion are emerging - I say this above all to friends and comrades of Left Ecology and Freedom - simplifications and confusions that have often affected the life of the country and weighed on the history of the Italian left. There are some not sayings on which I believe it is right to clarify, not to say that they underlie this debate and that we should not go into this matter. [[. (The microphone switches off automatically.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u39	Let's get Senator Mirabelli to an end.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u40	MIRABELLI (PD). Because one is afraid of a system that produces stability between one election and another. Stability in many interventions does not seem an opportunity for the country, but it is called hunger for power, because it frightens if a broad consensus is gathered around a project like that of the President of the Council. At that point the alarm is immediately triggered: if so many voters do not think like me and vote Renzi does not mean that there is a regime. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I think it is wrong that democracy defends itself by not changing anything or, worse, that stability, governance and consensus become an insult, a problem, that chaos and ungovernability become the guarantee of democracy. If not, there is no democracy. This idea is a dramatic problem for the country, which marked the discussion of this country. We still improve this text, but we must not be afraid to change. Look, ladies and gentlemen, citizens will not forgive us if we want to defend the existing one instead of fully assuming the responsibility to change. None of us, not even you, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, was elected to defend the existing. Because this is what you propose. It will not be a reform of parliamentary regulations to prevent the obstruction of oppositions from resolving the problems of the country. And if you want to defend democracy, learn from what Senator Cattaneo said: learn to respect others, their opinions, those who do not think like you and, above all, people as such. We are still working in the next few days in this House, but this is the time for reforms. And, dear Minzolini, there is no more time, not for Renzi's imaginative drawings that you describe, but because if we do not make the reforms - and this is the time - the citizens will be kicking us all out soon. And this time without appeal! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio. Ironic applause from Senator Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u41	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u42	Mr President, citizens who listen from outside, my speech comes after dozens of other speeches, many of them in the desperate defense of democracy, thanks to my colleagues from the 5 Star Movement and some courageous voice outside the choir, whom I thank for the courage and loyalty to our role as senators of the Republic and spokesperson for the people. I have listened to speeches made on the subject, with the hope of curbing this draft reform, which aims to establish in the Senate the elections of second degree, that is the politics that appoints politics, regional councillors who will elect councilors and mayors, President of the Republic directly decided by the great maneuver of turn, with the House that will vote exclusively on the government of the Prime Minister master of the majority and the Senate that will no longer vote on the budget. You are even yearning for the macabre dream of putting the guillotine in the Constitution. In addition, 250,000 signatures instead of 50,000 to propose popular laws and 800,000 signatures instead of 500,000 to submit repealing referendums. In short, a crowd of rapists of democracy wants to establish a real regime, definitively overthrowing the Government of the people and the parliamentary Republic. This aberrant split of democracy is a duty of every honest citizen. This reform that is expected is the dream of piduists DOC, an ancient project by Licio Gelli and Silvio Berlusconi [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and now passed into the hands of Renzi and Co., with the order of President Napolitano to make soon. Therefore, since there is a serious risk that ordinary citizens who are not aligned with the system outside and in here will no longer have a voice, let at least today the people speak in the language of the people. Above all, let me talk to those outside this House. The issue of reforms is not one that particularly fascinates public opinion. In fact, if you take a ride in the squares, by train, by bus, everyone knows who won the World Cup final, everyone knows that Dudù has a girlfriend, but, if you talk about Senate, Title V, electoral law and constitutional reforms, there are few who are informed in detail and they are even less those who have understood your hallucinating project. It is an incredible effort to talk and to fascinate the most with these issues. But we must talk about it: we have a duty to defend our democracy by the sword. If today you tell a person that, if this reform passes, he will no longer be a free citizen, the danger is not clear to him. If you tell him that these games will lead few people to decide for all of us, the citizen doesn't think it's possible. But it will be so: this is the project. All in all, the citizen will think that tomorrow he will be the same person he is today; everything will seem normal, everything as before. It is difficult to explain what it really means to remove the right to choose freely, but we must try with all our determination and strength. The 80 euros promised in extra pay envelope the citizens understood them immediately and it was seen with the vote of the last elections, a belly vote and immediate. It doesn't matter if you get it back two days later with interest. But how can I pass the message that freedom is priceless? This is and will be the real challenge. For three days in this House the tension has been cut with the knife; we are all very much tested for the gravity of the moment. So now let me use some irony. And let us start with those in this House. Senators, few stories: let yourselves be broken without too much resistance. That is what Europe is asking and Matthew and Silvio are asking us to do. Speaking of scraping, it wasn't Renzi who said on October 29, 2012: Berlusconi is more up-and-coming than the spread. I think after 18 years we have a right to talk about something else. Can't we talk about the future with the protagonists of the past? Already, Renzi, we can no longer talk about the future with the protagonists of the past, especially if in the meantime they have finally been convicted of tax fraud and a conviction at first instance for child prostitution. But, you know, for someone, these are new details. Yeah, but what did you guys say to each other at that meeting? When did the spark come out? What did you guys say that was so dazzling? Or isn't your deal in a tweet? And I'm not talking about what happened at the Nazarene a while ago, but about what you had in 2010 in Arcore! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Also because, in hindsight, perhaps you will understand all this unconditional love, or rather all this political schizophrenia. Maybe, since we are here, sparkling Premier Renzi Arcore, we wouldn't mind taking a peek at the Nazarene pact: or can we see it only after July 18, after the sentence of the trial (the umpteenth), on Mr. Berlusconi's appeal? Yeah, Mubarak's niece, lap dance, fancy dinners and nice company. Yeah, I mean, it's like President-in-Office of the Father Council building up a certain class. By the way, but is there still anyone in this House who at the time voted and defended the idea of Egyptian despicable "nipotina" by the sword? No, because I'd like to see your face and maybe even laugh with you, have a laugh. Italy don't worry! But who said that in recent years long-term politics have been lacking? For years, all together, fake right and fake left, have been working on projects and reforms. It is true that the times change: we have passed from the Constitutional Fathers to the Constitutional Fathers! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But, dear friends, there is nothing to do: Renzi likes it. Mom and grandmother like it, baby and grown-up like it. He is too nice, he has the joke always ready, he puts joy, he is young, he rides a bike, he is a boy scout like the Young Marmots, he is surrounded by young and beautiful photogenic women, all elegant, who smile gracefully even when they come to these classrooms for two minutes, maybe to announce the request for trust. Because, you see, what must please are not the political choices, they are not the rules of democracy: no, what must please is a 64-toned smile, a bit of jokes, a lot of sympathy, and voilà, we are ready to make us twist again. Then, what you do in concrete, who cares! Give us a dream, give us hope, it's stronger than us. Italians, we are a people of incurable dreamers! By the way, in the morning, when we go to the pharmacy or the baker, after shopping, we pay the bill with a dream, with a smile, with two slides and a lot of joy! Let's see if it works! And if the shopkeeper looks at you menacingly, you say maybe tomorrow he'll come by and settle the bill for Minister Boschi. But wasn't 20 years of that other guy promising millions of jobs and free dentures to old ladies? Whatever. Petrolini said that during one of his performances, a spectator who was overwhelmed by the chatter disturbed, shouted, hindering the natural development of the evening, until the artist stopped everything and shouted: "I'm not angry with you, but with what's next to you, because he hasn't thrown you down yet!" So let me tell you that it was never more relevant, and I am addressing the left hemicycle in this House: do you not feel embarrassed at all? Hostages in the hands of a whimsical child with an immense ego that, in order to stand on the pedestal, tramples on our rights to choose who will rule us, destroying democratic rules left by the constituent Fathers, the real ones, the serious ones, not inquisited, not condemned, who worked for the people and who had put on all the people until they declared it sovereign. Whatever choice you make, realize that you will be responsible and take all the political consequences. But let's talk about Senate reform. Renzi, what did you say to the Nazarene about the Senate? What about the electoral law? What about the reform of justice? And who will the next President of the Republic be? And the grace? What do we do? Do we have it granted or pass directly to the sanctification of Dudù's father and no more talk about it? "We must educate young people to have a healthy and robust constitution," he thought, that of the first twenty years, when he built summer colonies in the mountains and by the sea. But times change, trends and fashions also: after so many years, probably the Constitution that Renzi likes tends to gracilline. How can we remain anchored to the old, at a time when thinness and paucity are synonymous with beauty? How old is this thing here? Sixty-six? Go away, Constitution! You're old. Here we go fast and fast. We are young, snappy, modern. Slides and everything's broken. In short, however, our enfant prodige could do a little more: at least the coin of a new coin with a well-delined portrait, a "renzuschino". He could at least get a bust, a sculpture in Carrara marble in Piazza Venezia in front of the Altar of the Homeland (and that square I imagine evokes an irresistible charm). I mean, I expected more. Lorenzo the Magnificent would have already made Palazzo Montecitorio do effigi in his image in likeness: that I know, the Explosion of the chariot and the Colombina that enters directly in Parliament (for now we have to settle for the Explosion, for the Colombina we will provide). A courtyard that arranges the Palace well, with well defined areas: the area used to receive the adoring people on Sunday morning, strictly from 10 a.m. to 10.30 p.m., because the punctuality is everything; the damasked area in red velvet for the "confessional-fogatoio" for stressed courtiers; a soccer area, one for the PlayStation and one for the wheel of fortune (that, you know, must never miss it!). But now, after six months, more could be done. So, it was better for the other one, who at least focused everything on the harem area and - down! - all Italians to say how cool he was and how manly he was! Now that was a leader, a head, a head, a true leader of the people. There's only a bit of a drop here and the yield just doesn't live up to expectations. Renzi, arriving second is not a serious leader: the phrase "we have to change our constitutional architecture, abolishing the huge number of MPs" had said it years ago Berlusconi. It is good to claim the authorship of the project (by the way, there is a rumor that the venerable Licio already calls copyright! ). Carrying on the line already drawn will therefore be a way to respect your pacts. Covenant One (P1): Put on the high chair only people able to push the right button, the one dictated by the Regio command. [[Comments by Senators Borioli and Mirabelli.]] Covenant Two (P2): Shut up all the troubles of citizens who dare to ask to decide in politics. A senate assistant, days ago, told me about the anecdote of the vote with the electronic system of the three keys: button "absence", white; button "yes", green; button "no", red. [[Live comments from Senators Borioli and Mirabelli. Replies from Senator Bottici.]] I'm glad to see that I'm getting some reaction, so there's still someone alive in here. BOTTICS (M5S). In the minutes, President! [[Senator Mirabelli's lively comments.]] So, just introduced this system... [[Live comments from Senators Borioli and Mirabelli. Replies from Senator Bottici.]] Mr President, can I continue or do we still give a voice to those who are wasting my time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is You continue your speech, Senator Paglini, but, of course, you realize that there is also a limit to irony. Colleagues, I would ask you to have Senator Paglini do her speech and I invite you to listen to him seated, because I do not think it is appropriate to revive the evening. [[Senator Mirabelli's lively comments. Replies from Senator Bottici.]] AIROLA (M5S). Did I interrupt you when you said your nonsense, Senator Mirabelli? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come on, Airola, take it easy! Mr Paglini (M5S). May I continue, Mr President? Donkey theory doesn't really want to know! I was saying that a senate assistant, days ago, told me about the anecdote of the vote with the electronic system of the three keys: the key is abstaining, white; the button is yes, green; the button is no, red. Just introduced this system... [[Senator Mirabelli's comments. Replicas of Senator Santangelo, who shows to resume the session with a mobile device.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u43	Senator Santangelo, what are you gonna do? Stay calm and quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u44	SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm recording what's going on, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no need: there are already the recordings of the session, which you do not have to provide. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] I understand, but be serious too: the session is widely documented, so you don't need to do the moviola or the shooting to see if the ball exceeds the line. SANTANGELO (M5S). Record the sexist insults of my colleague Mirabelli! Let them be put in writing and then I'll be serious! AIROLA (M5S). Yeah, that's right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Continue your intervention, Senator Paglini. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments. Replicas of Senators Bottici and Nugnes.]] Mr Paglini (M5S). I was saying that, as soon as this system was introduced, years ago, in order to avoid wrong voting in the Chamber, since the hole does not allow to see what you vote, a senator found a system and left with his friend next door, saying: You always remember the word "donkey" and you will never be wrong. Starting from the index finger, in fact, there is the first button, which corresponds to the abstention vote (letter "a") and then in the center is the favorable vote, the "yes" and, finally, the negative vote key, the "no": "a-yes-no" (no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no vote. Here, I recommend: when the new 100 double workers arrive in the Senate, immune by grace received - that is, regional councillors, mayors and various friends - let them understand well that the system of the donkey always works. Senator Corradino Mineo (which I don't see now), I bet you haven't been well explained by the donkey theory (in spite of Article 67 of the Constitution), since in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs he took the initiative to think with his head, with the consequence of being thrown out in a nanosecond by his PD! Ah, good times, Senator Mineo, when I saw her every morning at dawn give news on RaiNews 24. By the way, does RaiNews24 send only "TG Renzi" or sometimes transmit other? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I say this because one morning, during the last election campaign, I enjoyed counting and in just two minutes (120 seconds) the conductor had managed to scan the name Matteo Renzi 10 times, one every 12 seconds. Not even Emilio Fede had succeeded in such a feat for Silvio in his TG4! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But shouldn't public service be public service? Sometimes I get these questions a little jumpy. Perhaps it is times that change and I have missed this modern turnaround. But yet, again about RaiNews24, what was director Monica Maggioni doing there days ago at the Bilderberg Group meeting in Copenhagen? Do you answer us, like this, to find out? Take it as a summer curiosity, a topic to talk about under the umbrella and the summer heat. What was an Italian public service director doing at that meeting? Well, maybe it's one of the Italian mysteries! However, let's face it: basically we all aspire to a healthy and robust monarchy; to a beautiful king who makes us dream, who walks the road with his carriage and white horses. Beautiful, all dressed in gold, unattainable, that occasionally extends the hand to us poor mortals and let us understand the why of our miserable existence. We yearn for a Premier who reminds us every day: I am I and you are not a caper!The head bows to the passage of the chariot and perhaps the hope of being able to enter the circle of the beloved, or better than the prey-chosen of the king and the king. Gentlemen of the PD, but wasn't putting a real Cesare Ottaviano in charge better? Here he is, the first Roman emperor: he made Rome a monumental city with the construction of many new buildings, favored economic rebirth and trade, with the construction of ports, roads, bridges. This, however, can boast a series of holes in the gallery and preferably pass under cities of art such as Florence or, perhaps, in the Val di Susa. Ah, there are no more condottieri than once! Cesare Ottaviano, who was a serious emperor: the Senate gave him the title of Augustus. Senate? Conferment? Oops, your Lordship Renzi the Magnificent, you must hurry to prepare the ceremony that soon there is the risk of being awarded "Augusto Imperiale" by a humble regional councilor or a double-laborist mayor of the fourth order! Saving's fine, but there's a risk of a ceremony that's too miserable. However, if you really want to save money, has it not occurred to you yet to abolish the national elections directly? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With all those cards and what the card costs today! But I'm sure Matthew is already thinking about it! Of course, you have to change quickly! Senators, the man only asks you to be in charge. Modern, he wants you modern. Come on, chat, tweet, take a slide, take a nice selfie with Europe! Be young, bubbly! Italy, be serene! Well, yeah, we're all happy now. However, dear citizens, whatever you say, our Premier has a clear idea about the Senate: he will put it on eBay and no longer talk about it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, come on, let me do some irony; it's been a while since these closed classrooms, I've been seeing these strange faces for a year and a half and I've been listening to all these things that have no logic, all these castroneries. Eh, that sounded weird. There was the trick, only today, but finally, I understood everything: come on, admit it, we're on "Skills apart"! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u45	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u46	Mr President, I am probably not going to be able to make such goliardic jokes with my speech; I do not want the House to do so, which, given the time, perhaps wanted to have some fun. I'm gonna try to get a little deeper into merit. Mr President, there is one sentence that I particularly care about: For the construction of a Europe based on autonomy, federalism, respect and direct solidarity among all peoples. President, that was what was written in the final point of the first political programme of the North League in 1982. After many years, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, which marked the end of the ideologies of the past century, after the overcoming of the first, second and third Republic, after the death of the historical parties, in the scenario of an economic crisis that has brought the world to its knees since 2008, the Northern League is always here. The League hasn't survived. The League lives because the League is not, will not and has never been a party. (Some Senators of the M5S Group, including Senator Bottici, discuss with Senator Mirabelli). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Comaroli. Commissioner, help to keep the House under control, please. We understand each other. Please, Senator Comaroli, continue. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). The League has never worked in the spasmodic search for consensus, through artificial propaganda mechanisms, coming to terms with the potentates or through customer logic. President, the League is the megaphone of the people's voice. The League is at the same time futuristic instinct and wise foresight. The League today is "Tank Man", the young boy who, armed with an envelope of spending in the left hand and the jacket in the right hand, stopped in Tiananmen square the advance of tanks using passive resistance. Dear President of the Council, you must not forget that you were not chosen by the people, but co-opted by a wagonman (I remind myself that the wagons were that political current which, during the repression of the Red Army against the students, workers and labourers of Budapest, politically supported that massacre) precisely to end that process of delegitimization of the people, which began first with the denigration of politics, continued with the attempt to establish a technocracy and, now, through the exaltation of the man who embodies the propaganda of regime. If in this country, therefore, we are talking about reforms, about the Federal Republic, about overcoming the perfect bicameralism, about reducing the number of parliamentarians, it is only thanks to the North League. Our task is not to run out, our mission is to change the country system. We represent a social bloc, we are the thorn in the side of the theorists of immobilism and centralism (especially centralism: I remember that the initial draft of this reform was centralist), we are tired of the strong powers that operate in the shadows. In a nutshell, we know that our revolution is a permanent one because our political militancy is daily change, as although few in this House are conditioning this reform. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] President, allow me: this is a reform, which to date has no ambition of real change in the country, quickly and furiously adjusted by the balanceists of deception, to try to delay the end of a regime destined to die. This is the truth and it would be useless, with easy sophisms, to weigh the criticalities of this reform with the very few good things that are part of it. Relativism is the original sin of the politicians who have sent this country to massacre. I will be clear, transparent: this reform, as it is, deserves only the judgment of Fantozzi at the end of the projection of the battleship Potëmkin. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli]] I'll let you remember that. With the same intellectual honesty, I recognize that my Group - especially thanks to Senator Calderoli who, as a good soldier, waged a war of exhausting position - has also succeeded in achieving an important result on this occasion. The standard costs set out in the Constitution are a historical result, obtained only thanks to the perseverance of the North League. Finally, public finance adapts to the principles of accountability in the use of public resources. The regions will have to adapt to the same levels of expenditure and assume responsibility - I particularly want to stress the term "responsibility" - in the management and, therefore, to respond to the functioning or not of the services to the citizens. Professor Miglio, on every useful occasion, always loved to reiterate: It is not federalism that provokes the crisis of the national state, but it is the crisis of the national state that finds its answer in the federal solutions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is obvious that thought goes to fiscal federalism and its content so innovative that it presents itself as a virtuous model of change. The reform of fiscal federalism marks, in fact, an unprecedented turning point in our state system. A reform that contains a renewed corpus, aimed at defining a multilevel finance system that declines in a new and original way the relations between State, autonomous and European Union, in order to ensure a uniform and coherent coordination, not only of public finance, but of the same public policies. The password is to overcome definitively the derived finance, with the attribution to municipalities, provinces, metropolitan cities and regions of autonomy of income and expenditure; a system in which, after the transfers, the financial resources derive from taxes and own revenues, from partnerships to the revenue of erial taxes and from the equalization fund for territories with less fiscal capacity. With regard to the equalization fund, to all those who say: "Poor Regions of the South, how will they do it?"I answer that the problem is given by the fact that they will no longer be able to squander money, because the equalization fund will always remain. So, it is out of place and out of question the excuse that many people use, without really understanding what the real value of federalism is. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is precisely the overcoming of the financing based on the criterion of historical expenditure and the transition to the one determined instead in relation to the standard requirements. If, on the one hand, the history of the syringe that costs a euro in Lombardy and in other regions, especially in the South, costs three times as much, it has now become an irrefutable truth, on the other hand, one cannot fail to see how everything, still today, remains unchanged and continues to waste rivers of public money in unholy costs and expenses. If all the Italian Regions applied the cost/performance ratio, as happens, for example, in Veneto and Lombardy, it has been estimated that we would save 30 billion euros, a third of the public debt interest. We will never tire, Mr President, of saying and repeating that, in order to be able to cut expenditure selectively, we must respect a basic principle, namely the identification of standard requirements and the consequent application of standard costs. The cuts must not be made on balance sheets, but on preventive budgets, which is not the case to date. The shift from historical expenditure to standard cost will direct the policy of administrations towards a new meritorious logic that avoids the known inefficiencies of the past: a real revolution of the state system, which will require, on the part of the administrations, a commitment not indifferent, but that in the medium term will bring a remarkable change, improving the quality of the services and, above all, the effectiveness and efficiency of the public administrations themselves, revolution based on the principle of responsibility. A system within which responsibilities are clearly identifiable can give the best guarantees to citizens of an effective conduct of public affairs. This is a slow but inexorable path, if we finally want to start a radical change, which will be completed with the entry into force of a real - I stress: true - federal reform of the state. Mr President, I am thinking of a federal state which knows how to enhance the territorial peculiarities, regional autonomy and the added value of the local authorities, which can be renewed efficiently through the reorganization of the areas of provincial competence with the introduction of the concept of a vast area, which knows how to become aware of the axiom of the 'Vedo', 'Pago', 'Vote'. Only in this way will it be possible to return to the citizens the desire to be an active part of the government of the territories. This is the only way, if we really want to prevent anger from exploding. It is unacceptable that there are regions in which the fight against unemployment is based exclusively on welfare, where civil servants, if compared to the size of the territory and the population density of the same, are twice, if not triple, those employed in other regions, which are also more efficient and virtuous. These are paradoxical situations, widely denounced, which now belong to the DNA of a monstrous system, which feeds on its own inefficiencies. It is indeed necessary, Mr President, to activate the circuit of responsibility, by promoting the transparency of spending decisions and their reallocation, through the full completion of the transition from historical expenditure (which finances services and waste) to the standard cost/dream (which finances services), in order to ensure a very high degree of solidarity and responsible management of the public money. Today all this must be realized, on the one hand, by enhancing the social and cultural identities of the different territories that make up our country and, on the other hand, by pursuing the dream of redesigning a new Europe, which is not only united by the same currency uniform and articulated by a sterile participation in quotas, but instead is capable of becoming a political subject at a global level, based on respect for the differences of the hundred peoples that compose it and united by the same political vision. Only if we succeed in this difficult task will we restore confidence and hope to the citizens and above all will we give back substance to the main task of politics, namely the commitment and passion in the search for suitable solutions aimed at the common good. That, Mr President, unfortunately, there is none of this in the reform! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Santangelo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u47	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u48	Mr President, Realpolitik: the bill of the President of the Council Renzi is an act of Realpolitik. Whether you want to call it constitutional reform or constitutional counter-reform, each of us can say so. It is undeniable that, at this time and for how it was presented, it represents an act of Realpolitik. In fact, the word was born in the eighteenth century, but it developed and assumed precise characteristics in the seventies and eighties of the last century. It is mostly used to represent the foreign policy of the Willy Brandt Government and can be understood positively. In this sense, I would understand it in most circumstances, when it is given the simplest sense of "realist" to distinguish simple and concrete policies from utopian ones. I like to recall this meaning, which is very close to what the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement has always tried to do, from 15 March 2013 to today: be concrete, apply simple and concrete rules of politics and leave aside ideologies and utopias. It is also undeniable that the same term "realpolitik" has had quite different, much more negative connotations over time, when it has been used mostly - and here I get help from the history books - to indicate a political vision of short-range or short-sightedness, to pursue temporary and partial solutions to problems, taking care of the immediate, the firm, the whole, cursed and immediately, as I often say, without thinking about the consequences or without having a broad-ranging vision. Young Renzi, in his first appearance in this Senate Chamber, rightly said that he was not even old enough to enter this Chamber. At the same time, however, he said that maybe it was the last time he would ask for trust, personally, because this Senate wanted to scrap. That day, with great regret, I didn't see any senator standing up for life, no senior senator telling young Renzi: President of the Council, have respect. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] That was also Realpolitik, perhaps more marked by a previous Realpolitik than when the term was coined, as Machiavelli used or as Richelieu used when he spoke of state reasoning. The history of our Constitution is imbued with Realpolitik, at all times of its formation, until it reaches definitive approval. Moreover, the times required it; they required concerted actions, balances that came from the historical phase of the post-war period, which came from the balance of powers that the two main international blocs demanded, which came from the balance and dialectical clash between the two main national blocs: the Christian Democracy and the center area and the Communist Party and the left area. Realpolitik was also made in those moments, which would outline what is commonly called the most beautiful Constitution in the world. Realpolitik was made - and I get help again from the history books - on November 21, 1946, when the partisan Giuseppe Dossetti, who was one of the 75 members of the Committee on Constitution, presented a proposal concerning the right of resistance to be included in the Constitution of the Italian Republic. The proposal was exactly this: The individual and collective resistance to the acts of the public authorities, which violate the fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by this Constitution, is the right and duty of every citizen. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]] This proposal was to constitute Article 3 of the Italian Constitution and was inspired by Article 21 of the French Constitution, of April 19, 1946, not very different, which stated: If the Government violates the freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution, resistance in all forms is the most sacred of rights and the most imperious of duties. Well, in the Sub-Committee this text was approved by ten votes in favour, two abstentions and one against, but later it failed to pass the examination of the constituent assembly, although the partisan (now former partisan) Giuseppe Dossetti was a member of the Christian Democracy (but he belonged to it as an extremist). Therefore, Christian Democracy, together with the Communist Party, the Church, the United States, had thus essentially sheltered the Italian ruling class of the time and the future (and therefore, today) from the concrete risk represented by the possible exuberances of the oppressed classes. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] I imagine, in these years of social uprisings, legitimate demonstrations of the streets, legitimate claims, what would have happened if there had been this article 3 of the Constitution. Probably would have been yet another denied article, never applied. We don't know that. What is certain is that the then need of Realpolitik all agreed (right, left, center, Vatican and other strong powers with the approval of the United States who, surely, controlled our country not to a marginal extent) in 1946 and the proposal of Dossetti shipwrecked. These were difficult moments, certainly much more difficult than those we are going through today, because the draft Constitution had been prepared by a special Commission, but the composition of the Commission, which at first reflected - as well as the Assembly - the relationship of strength between the parties existing in the anti-fascist coalition during the Resistance period, was not then re-proposed equal in the constituent Assembly. The majority of Members - recalled the history books - proposed to consolidate in the Constitution the democratic programmatic thesis put forward by the Resistance and initially set out in the form of general principles in the most important documents of the Italian High National Liberation Committee and the Central National Liberation Committee. On 22 December 1947, the Constitution of the Italian Republic was approved by the Constitutional Assembly (it will enter into force on 1 January 1948), but it was no longer what had been outlined by the Commissions. Yes, it confirmed the foundations of the capitalist order: it guaranteed the intangibility of private property and the free private initiative in economics. Yes, in Article 7 it regulated relations between the Vatican and the State on the basis of the Lateran Pacts of 1929 signed by Mussolini, who recognized the Vatican as a sovereign state. It also contained, yes, a whole series of democratic thesis. The political rights of the people were recognized, freedom of organization, freedom of assembly, freedom of the press, the right to strike, individual freedom, the secret of correspondence, etc. The Constitution also recognised the right to work and fair compensation that was sufficient to guarantee a free and dignified existence, equality of rights between women and men, the right of workers to social protection, and trade union freedom. It was also stated that the private initiative had to be directed towards the achievement of the interests of the whole community and that private property was limited by the right of the Government to proceed, then, to nationalizations, even if with compensation of individual sectors. It was a product, even then, of a word that did not yet exist: indeed Realpolitik. But, like the predecessors of the term I have already mentioned - Machiavelli and Richelieu - Cicero had clear the positive concept, understood in the most positive sense of the term, of Realpolitik. If today he could have pronounced again his prayers of the first Catholic and four Philippians, probably, indeed certainly, Cicero would have defended in a strenuous and certainly much more effective way than we are doing the legitimacy of this Senate by the wicked bill Renzi. He would most likely have wondered: "Quousque tandem abutere, Renzi, patientia nostra?" that is, how long will you abuse our patience, O Renzi? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella.]] I am sure that he would have continued and would have done so with the following words, which I humbly allow myself to adapt to the times because they are very current. I use them only by modifying some passages that - of course - serve to plunge into the reality of this provision what Cicero said in defense of the Roman order and against Catilina and Antonio in the Philippians: How long will your administrative fury of facade last and mock us, O Renzi? To what limit will your unbridled audacity be pushed, thanks to the complicity of your social megaphones, newspapers and TVs? Doesn't the night garrison of people who can't take it anymore mean anything to you? The choices that your economic and now constitutional policy obliges cities, the fear of the people, the competition of all decent people? This very well equipped seat of the Senate and the mouths and faces of many unbelieving senators of so much unconstitutional force? Do you not realize, O Renzi, that your purposes are known, that your conspiracy is adversely affected by the knowledge that all of us, and not only us, have? Do you think we don't know what you're doing next night or the night before, where you've been, who you've been calling, what suggestions you've gathered and from whom? So far the reinterpretation of the Cathylinaria. With the Philippians brought up to date, we go far beyond: The situation has come to an extreme danger; with this reform of yours freedom is decided. Freedom is an inalienable possession of the Italian people, remember that, and this attempt to reduce us to a regime will turn against you. What is in you, Renzi, or senators, besides political cruelty, aggression, unbridled boldness? Who has ever behaved so shamefully against the citizens? Maybe not even your putative father in politics, Mr. B. Do you think that on earth there can be a more ungodly politician in destroying the parliamentary democracy of this state? Perhaps your hope is that Renzi will become more sincere and truthful? How long, then, will he, who has skilfully surpassed all previous Premieres, be deprived of the title of slave of the strong powers of this nation? Your incredible turnout, senators, and the great abundance, as I never seem to recall, give me great alacrity to defend the Republic, and little hope to recover it, because, in spite of our condition as a parliamentary Republic, you have been moving and voting like a governmental Republic, a successor of the presidential Republic for decades. To us, citizens, the courage to denounce and to oppose us - know it - will never fail and, despite the circumstances, even when we did not seem to show a glimmer of light, we will always promote in defending your freedom, senators. We have tried to do this before and we will continue to do so now. In fact, these days, senators, so that you do not feel that a good thing has been done, the foundations of future actions have been laid. In fact, Renzi from the Senate has not yet been called under the proper name of enemy of democracy, but, in fact, has already been judged by so many citizens and I will never be relieved until I see that you too, with such great consent and applause, will not admit that that is an enemy. The 5 Star Movement, which defended and defends the Republic and our freedom with its commitment, its wisdom and finally with its cultural and social heritage, has been insulted with utmost gravity in this Senate, on more than one occasion, because you unfortunately follow with great gratitude the name of the illustrious young man, or rather, the child who plays the Premier on the skin of the Italians and whose deeds will perhaps belong to immortality, but because they will drown economically the Nation and, before doing so, will make it with these constitutional reforms a small dictatorial Republic, an oligarchy of appointed, where few will prevail over many. I remember many things, I heard many, I read many others, or senators, but nothing like that I knew from the memory of all the centuries. While we were oppressed by servitude, while evil grew in the days of the various governments of the PD and the populist right of "Mr. B," even under the fake robes of technical governments, I remember that we had no defense, that we feared the capital and pestilence return precisely of "Mr. B." Therefore, you have made this unexpected decision for everyone, certainly unexpected, to reconfirm the control of politics over democracy by forming an army of senators and administrators, because an army will remain the number of senators appointed and not elected with this reform of the Senate, ready for the ruin of the State with the fury of Renzi and of the lobbies that protect and accompany him, incited by harmful intentions. For who does not understand this? If the 5 Star Movement had not opened this Parliament like a can of tuna, everything would have happened without the citizens being aware of the deception that you are bringing Italy. Moreover, what defense of your salvation and health was there, if the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group, bearer of collective interests, had not been there? I wish there were still the legion Marzia of ancient Rome, who drew by divine will, from that god, that name from which the Roman people were conceived: he would have judged, with his deliberations, before the Senate, Renzi enemy of democracy and now we would all, or senators, even with your applause, to acclaim the wonderful action of the Martials: who, as happened two thousand years ago against the tyrant Antonio, would have turned to the authority of the Senate, to our freedom, to the whole State, leaving that enemy, murderer of the Homeland, outside the institutions. What less serious judgments and aspects can Matthew Renzi have today? It is brought to heaven by newspapers, banks, insurance companies, large-scale distribution, a real army of mercenaries prepared against the state. I know, Senators, that you will pursue in this purpose that you carry out before you. I will therefore do as the commanders use after having deployed the army, which, although they see the soldiers very prepared to fight, nevertheless exhort them; so I will exhort you ardent and relieved to regain freedom. You do not have, senators, you do not have to fight with an enemy with whom a certain condition of peace can be established: in fact that one does not want, as before, that your servitude, but now, angry, for a little fake internal contestation, also wants the blood of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u49	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u50	Mr President, I want to start by expressing solidarity with the Senators of the PD: what they have suffered is the mirror, from my point of view, of what is happening in Italy. If we have come to the point that expressing an opinion of dissent, perhaps different, means suffering what they have suffered, we understand well what country we live in. I want to start with a sentence from who the story in Italy I think made it, which is Sandro Pertini, who said: In addition to every article in the Constitutional Charter, there are hundreds of young people who died in the Resistance. So the Republic is our conquest and we have to defend it, no matter what it costs. We'll be there. My experience of life and the little political experience that I have taught me that we must never offend anyone, and instead I think that what we have been witnessing for some time now in the Senate is an offense to the dignity of all of us, who should be the representatives of the citizens. What is happening in the Senate, that is to say to face constitutional reforms of this magnitude in this way, I think it is an unprecedented offense. I am really saying this with regret, because I would like to believe that politics still exists and unfortunately I see, every day that passes, that politics is not there and for me, that I believe in politics, seeing this degradation - I call it that - is the real burden I carry for being here, in these rooms. I don't know if you know. Anyone who knows my story knows that I have a working history, but the real annoyance I feel about being in these rooms doesn't come from someone else's lack of respect, but from the fact that you realize that there is no politics. There's nothing. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] I think this is an offense, not just to us but to the fact that we should represent Italian citizens. It's a very serious fact. A person I thought very much, who was very ironic and joked about the things you could joke about (not about the Italian Constitution), always said: Speak, speak, but know that everything you say will not be taken into account. That's what's happening in here, with the absence of the government and everything else: they've given us time to talk but, in fact, they don't listen to us. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] FINDING, rapporteur. That's not true. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). This is something I find unheard of and not worthy of this country. They've actually been telling us for months. I don't know if you realize that. We have asked some questions with some of our colleagues in the Commission when it comes to question time. Well, what I think is offensive is not that you receive an answer that you do not like, because that would be part of the policy, but that if you ask a question in question time or you ask a parliamentary question you will not get an answer at all! What are we talking about? So we want to deal with Italy's problems? I am not going to lecture anyone, but in this House I have heard of delegated democracy, of economic democracy, of mature democracy, of appointed democracy. Look, the only thing they taught me is that democracy is one and if we really want to add an adjective, it's "participated" and it's the only thing that hasn't been said. They called democracy in all other ways less than participated. What are we talking about? I am in a very difficult position to act in this way. Who are we talking to? Those left in here are the ones who are already convinced that something wrong is being done! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It's really a shame, but seriously! Let's talk about serious things, which really affect the lives of citizens! Here we do not realize that the real problem is the detachment of these rooms from the citizens, from the real country: there is a huge detachment! And you don't realize what's going on. I have been here since Monday, like all of you, and in these days I happened to read an interview given by President Renzi about Basilicata, where I come from. If I read correctly, Renzi says he is ashamed to discuss energy at European level. The cause would be the fact that it could double the oil percentages in Basilicata, creating so many jobs, and it is not done because of fear of the reactions of three or four "comitatini" (so called them). [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Pin.]] You see, President - who is not here - I would like to give you a piece of advice: before speaking to me, they taught me that we need to be informed about things. You, Mr President, must not double your extractions, first of all because you have not even deigned to talk to those communities, to the people of Basilicata, perhaps trying to understand where the problem is. Maybe people would really explain to you what's going on in Basilicata. Otherwise the President would know that in about twenty years from the first oil extractions in Basilicata, the Basilicata gave so much, but nothing received. So much so that to date the Basilicata, despite the twenty years of oil, turns out to be among the poorest Regions of Italy, if not the poorest. In fact, no, I correct, something the Basilicata received in return: environmental degradation [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] , increases in cancer diseases and job losses (other than creating jobs!). It was enough - as I said before - to inquire and talk to the communities, trying to understand what happened and what is happening. But to speak you must have the will to really understand what happens and I do not believe that there is this will. I'll explain it to him, even if he's not here. Entire families and young people have been forced to emigrate, to leave their land and their affections; and it is even more difficult for us in the South to leave their land. You, Mr President, instead of respecting those communities and trying to understand what they are asking for, talk about three or four committees, with irony perhaps, certainly out of place, first of all because they are a serious expression of those communities, but, even if it were different, you should still have respect, because minorities in Italy have contributed seriously to building the democracy of this country. Without minorities perhaps this democracy that we all benefit from would not be in Basilicata today. I would like to make some very significant examples from my point of view. People like Di Vittorio, Gramsci, Calamandrei were elected for the first time in these Houses of Parliament with 4% of the representation. They are not people who have not left their mark; indeed, they have made the story of this nation, a true story, a story rich in meanings. But someone pretends to forget about it. Why do I say that? Because I notice a certain form of allergy to respect the constraints. Now it seems that in Italy something can be done only if we remove all the constraints. Let's talk about work. I think that in Italy there are two Constitutions: the Republican and the Workers' Statute, which practically equaled the Italian Constitution. I have always tried to tell you what is going on in the world of work, not because I claim to have the truth in my pocket, but because I talk to the workers, since I have spent twenty-five years of my life in factories. But I didn't really find the will to listen; for your part there's really no desire to listen to what's going on. Look, I have been taught this: if democracy is lacking in a country in the workplace, there is no dignity, there is no need for everything that has been fought for, not only does the country benefit from it at the image level, but not even at the level of what you are talking about. Jobs will not be created by removing dignity from the workplace. You brag about it, every day some articles come out (now we talk about article 18). One who has been in the workplace tells you that if a worker has no right, no possibility of defending himself or asserting those fundamental principles of our Constitution, which are dignity and freedom, he will accept any condition. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] When the worker accepts every condition, the jobs are not created, they are removed from our country, because he will perhaps agree to do a few extra hours unpaid or to work not safely. But I am convinced that you don't understand: pretend you don't understand. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] This is the most serious thing. To underline what I mean, I would like to remind you of the importance of the sentences of desperate people who cry out for pain and need to be heard. About 40 days ago I reminded this House of the woman who unfortunately committed suicide in Nola. On that occasion I said that I had been struck by a sentence that he had left written, namely that he would get up every morning and see his place of work and for her, not to be able to see him again, was an emotional mourning. There is all the essence: you must not commodify work; you must not commodify the life and dignity of people as you are doing! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] Work is a whole other thing. That's not what I've been trying to scare the citizens of you. In those words there is the cry of pain that this policy should hear and which unfortunately never listens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, he doesn't even deserve to come and listen. That's something I find shameful. Let's move on to what you're going to do. In comparison, the so-called Porcellum is a hymn to democracy. [[Laughter. Applause from the M5S Group]] It was declared unconstitutional. 12% if you are coaled, 8% if you are out of a coalition, 4% if you are in a coalition; all this means that you are going to vote yes and no 50% of the Italians, of these, 25% will stay out and throw your votes. Is this democracy to get out of the crisis? Is this what we propose to the country? If this is what we propose to the country, wish you well! Congratulations! Seriously. It's really a strange democracy. In fact, I repeat, it is an allergy to democracy. They taught me that allergy, even if it is a mild disease, must be cured, not endorsed or accompanied. We must treat these diseases; I think that we can overcome such a difficult moment as what we are all going through together only and exclusively with the participation of our citizens, not by putting them at the corner, by telling them, or by eating this soup or by throwing you out the window, or by leaving them alone. I was taught something else: politics was needed to bridge a gap between the powerful and the citizens. That's what they taught me. Politics is more for the real people, for the normal people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You are turning politics into an instrument for the powerful. I think it is the wrongest thing in this world, and each of us has a moral duty to make a true reflection and to be among the people, because people need a real policy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u51	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u52	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-281.ana.u53	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 17 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.58 p.m.
