ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u4	Colleagues, as already communicated to the Groups in the short way, the agenda for this session is supplemented by the resolution of the Assembly on the vote against expressed by the 1st Permanent Commission regarding the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency of Decree-Law No 151 of 2013, laying down financial provisions for local authorities, infrastructure and disasters. The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 30 January. This afternoon, until 8.30 p.m., and at tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 9 a.m. and without a scheduled closing time, will continue - until its conclusion - the examination of the decree-law IMU and Banca d'Italia. The inspection union will take place between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. tomorrow's session. The timetable for next week, starting from the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 14 January, provides for the discussion of the draft law on non-convict prison sentences; the follow-up to the bill on the demolition of abusive works; the examination of the documents defined by the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity - already planned for this week - as well as the motions on the oil research activity in the Adriatic Sea. In the week from 21 to 23 January, in addition to the possible follow-up of unfinished topics, will be discussed the bill amending the penal code in the matter of political-mafia electoral exchange, the Lanzillotta motion on support for cities candidates to European Capital of Culture 2019 and the decree-law extends terms. The following week, starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 28 January, in addition to the possible follow-up to the decree-law extension terms, the decree-law on the financing of parties and on financial arrangements for local authorities, infrastructure and disasters will be examined. During the afternoon sitting on Thursday 30 January, with a direct televised film, the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism will reply to immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure. The timetable may be supplemented by an examination of the Minister of Justice's report on the administration of justice. Finally, the Conference of Leaders agreed that the speeches at the end of the sitting could be made after the closing hours of the meetings set out in the timetable and, in any case, without prejudice to the Presidency's appreciation of the progress of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the proceedings of the Senate for the months of January, February and March 2014: - Report of the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice - Drawings of law for the conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Budgetary documents - Settlement and Account of the State's budget - Internal balance and accounts of the Senate - Documents defined by the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys - Motions - Interrogations and Questions - Drawing of Law No 925 and related - Delegation to the Government in the matter of non-convictory prison sentences and provisions on the suspension of proceedings with evidence and against the irrepertable (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No 580 - Provisions for the rationalization of jurisdiction in the demolition of abusive artifacts - Drawing of Law No 948 and related Amendments to Rule 416 of the Constitutional Law of the Chamber of Parliaments - Amendment to the Rules of the Chamber of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure, in Rule of the Rules of the Rules of Procedure, in Rule of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure, which met this morning by the Rules of Procedure, which met this morning with the President of Procedure, held by the President of Procedure, held by the President of Procedure, held by the Senate, held by the Senate, with the Senate and with the Senate and with the Vice-
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u6	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by a majority - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 30 January 2014: [[Wednesday, January 8 pom. h. 16,30-20,30 - Following bill n. 1188 - Decree-Law n. 133, IMU and Banca d'Italia (Scade on 29 January 2014) - Questions and questions (Thursday 9, from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m.) Thursday 9 " ant. h. 9]] [[Tuesday 14 January ant. h. 11-13,30 - Drawing of law n. 925 and related - Non-convict prison sentences and test (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Following bill n. 580 - Demolition of abusive works - Documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunity - Motions on oil research activity in the Adriatic Sea " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 15 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 16 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday 16 January pom. H. 16 Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 925 and related (non-convict prison sentences and testing) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Friday 10 January. [[Tuesday 21 January pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up of unconcluded topics - Drawing of law n. 948 and related - Amendment of article 416-b of the penal code, in the matter of political-mafia electoral exchange (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Motion n. 182, Lanzillotta, on the support of cities candidates to European Capital of Culture 2019 - Drawing of law n. 1214 - Decree-Law n. 150, extension of term (final vote by February 2nd) (It falls on February 28th) Wednesday 22nd " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 23 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 23 January pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law no. 948 and related (Mafia political electoral change) and 1214 (Decree-Law No 150, extension deadlines) must be submitted by 5 p.m. on Monday 20 January. [[Tuesday 28 January ant. h. 11-13,30 - Possible follow-up of bill no. 1214 - Decree-Law no. 150, extension of term (final vote no. 2 February) (Scade no. 28 February) - Drawing of law no. 1213 and related - Decree-Law No. 149, financing of parties (final vote no. 2 February) (Scade no. 26 February) - Drawing of law no. 1215 - Decree-Law No. 151, financial provisions local authorities, infrastructure, disasters (final vote no. 2 February) " (Scade no. 28 February) " pom. h. 16-20 Wednesday 29 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20 Thursday 30 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday 30 January pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to art. 151- bis of the Regulation to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism]] Amendments to draft law no. 1213 and related (Decree-Law No 149, party financing) and 1215 (Decree-Law No 151, financial provisions local authorities, infrastructure, disasters) will have to be submitted by 1 p.m. on Friday 24 January. The timetable may be supplemented by the Minister of Justice's Report on the Administration of Justice. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1188 (Decree-Law No 133, IMU and Banca d'Italia) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) (*) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 54' NCD 41' LN-Aut 31' Mixed 30' PI 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] (*) The distribution of the times for the discussion of the decree-law may take into account any disposals agreed between the Groups. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1214 (Decree-Law No 150, Extension of time limits) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 54' NCD 41' LN-Aut 31' Mixed 30' PI 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of times for discussion of draft laws No. 1213 and related (Decree-Law No. 149, Financing of Parties) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 54' NCD 41' LN-Aut 31' Mixed 30' PI 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1215 (Decree-Law No 151, financial provisions local authorities, infrastructure, disasters) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 54' NCD 41' LN-Aut 31' Mixed 30' PI 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u9	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, as you know, the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group did not vote in favour of the timetable approved by a majority by today's Conference of Leaders. It is in fact from 5 November 2013 that we have submitted a motion of individual distrust to the Minister of Justice Annamaria Cancelleri and we are, after two months, to ask for its calendarization. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] Mr President, in the event that a parliamentary opposition group requests the verification of the relationship between Parliament and the Government, i.e. between the House and individual ministers, the Chambers have a constitutional obligation to resolve it. To fail to accept such a request, made by the Movement of Citizens who obtained the highest number of votes in the last parliamentary elections, means to stand outside the democratic and parliamentary regime. Moreover, the reasons are constitutional in nature, because of the lack of respect for the dignity and public goodness of the Minister of Justice, to which are added indulging masked, useful only to mobsters, rapists, murderers, in any case usual delinquents, I do not know if he reminds you of anyone. Added to this is the difficult understanding of the true relations between the new Secretary of the Democratic Party and the party that he himself says he represents. Let's make a few small quotes: It is not a matter of warning of guarantee, which is not a sentence of condemnation, but the Minister has lost that prestige and authority which are conditions necessary for the function of Minister of Justice. Quoting again: The Prefect Chancellor knows that there are times when institutions are being served if they step back, with their resignation before they get to the vote, we have also advised someone else. Renzi also said: "I hope that common sense prevails; today Chancellors has lost that prestige and authority that remain from the personal point of view, but in its function no longer". Finally, the current Secretary of the Democratic Party said: If I were in Parliament, I would ask my group to vote for the resignation. It was November 19, 2013 and these were the statements of Matteo Renzi, then mayor of Florence and candidate for the secretariat of the Democratic Party, today secretary of the party which is majority shareholder of this pathetic Executive. Dr. Cancellieri is still Minister of Justice of the Italian Republic and is very active in proposing initiatives. Let's start with the subject of prison emergency. Instead of reporting to us on the implementation of a plan that would have had to solve the problem structurally and that so far, in the face of multimillionaire investments, has not given birth to a new place in two years, it submits a shameful decree. Someone called him "empty decreto-carceries"; it would be more correct to call him "masked indult." Instead of intervening on minor cases, statistically more frequent and socially less dangerous, we want to pass the special early release of mafias, rapists and murderers as the right solution to solve prison problems and avoid further condemnations by Strasbourg. In the meantime, he wants to extend the use of the electronic bracelet with Telecom - where his son also casually works - thanks to a contract renewed by her when she was Minister of Interior of the last Executive; so far applied to less than twenty inmates in all, from 2001 to today, has devoured over 120 million euros of the State. The secretary of the Democratic Party Matteo Renzi just goes from one talk show to another asking for dialogue. Well, you're starting to show us if you can still talk to the rest of your party, if you're willing to be consistent with what you said less than two months ago. Only to understand if the Democratic Party within the institutions responds to what the Secretary or the Premier asks, since we no longer know who we should talk to in this Republic: to talk to the Head of the Executive we need to hear the President of the Republic and not the Prime Minister; and to know what is the position of the Democratic Party with whom we need to talk? With the Prime Minister or with the secretary? Or do we want to keep playing ping pong? We therefore formally and again request that tomorrow, Thursday, 9 January, the motion of individual distrust of the Minister of Justice, Anna Maria Cancelleri, be scheduled. The Democratic Party and the Renza teams within it cannot fail to accept this request to demonstrate in fact, and not only with propaganda, coherence and dignity. Very soon we will have to tackle measures of fundamental importance for Italy as a whole, such as electoral law and public funding for parties. We want to know with a vote, here and now, if the coalition that governs this country is the one composed of Letta and Alfano sitting at the government counter or the one between Renzi and Berlusconi sitting at the table of Arcore. The 5 Star Movement has always demonstrated its consistency in these months. Show the Italians, with this vow, who you are. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u10	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's proceedings, which provides for the inclusion on the agenda of tomorrow's sittings of the motion of no confidence against Minister Cancellieri, tabled by Senator Taverna. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Montevecchi (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u11	The next item is the resolution on the vote against of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, with regard to the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by Article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for bill No 1215: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 151 of 30 December 2013, with provisions of an indisputable financial nature aimed at ensuring the functionality of local authorities, the implementation of measures in the fields of infrastructure, transport and public works, as well as to allow interventions in favour of populations affected by natural disasters". I call the President of the 1st Commission, Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u12	Mr President, after a presentation by Senator Giuseppe Esposito, rapporteur to the Commission, who proposed a favourable opinion, Senator Bisinella and Senator Campanella spoke in the debate. At the time of the vote, the proposal for a favourable opinion received nine votes in favour and nine votes against. Given the equality of votes between the votes for and against, the draft opinion was not adopted, so that, because of the particular nature of the opinions of the 1st Commission on the constitutional presuppositions of the decree-laws, which are based on a strictly binary criterion (the assumptions exist or do not exist), the result of the examination was that of a negative opinion, which is submitted to the Assembly pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u13	I would remind you that one representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u16	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment we are faced with a situation which we in the North League call - there can be no other term - shameful. What has happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can only be defined as a mockery which is added to enormous damage. We are here again - and I would also like to stress, Mr President, with an inappropriate decision to schedule this issue - immediately after the end of the Commission sitting - to discuss, in the prerogatives of the Presidency, the conditions for constitutionality. Perhaps, however, this limits a little too much the prerogatives of all Members who, perhaps, would have liked to go a little further, if someone had not yet done so, on the substance of the measure we are considering and which - I repeat - is shameful. Constitutional requirements are clearly absent; there is absolutely no requirement for urgent decrees to be admissible under Article 77 of the Constitution. The use of the urgent decree - I remind my fellow Members, and I would also like to hear what others think - is subject to strict compliance with precise conditions. We are talking about a repeated decree-law: a decree-law that contains forecasts and provisions of an unconverted decree-law, and indeed, it is necessary to emphasize, withdrawn by the Government, and this makes a significant difference, because there were no conditions from the point of view of merit and constitutional and political presuppositions to carry it forward. We find these measures in a new decree-law which, again, presents the same vices. All I'm saying is that the title - which I invite colleagues to read well - indicates that the provisions concern the functionality of the local authorities and, therefore, there are again the rules of the so-called save Rome (let's call it its name). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This measure, which is again the decree made only and exclusively to save Rome from bankruptcy, presents rules on infrastructure, transport and public works. The requirements of homogeneity are therefore lacking, because it is of all evidence that it is a heterogeneous decree-law from its title. There is also a lack in many provisions of the conditions of extraordinary necessity and urgency which must be presided over and, moreover - which is truly serious and shameful, on which everyone's attention must be maximum in this House if one believes and wants to give weight to the role that Parliament must have in this country - this provision carries the content of a decree-law that is not converted and withdrawn. The recurrence clearly violates the Constitution and is illegitimate, as the Constitutional Court has pointed out several times over the years. I remember the judgments since 2006; there are explicit rulings of 2007 and 2008 of the Court, which has intervened several times precisely on the unionability of the presuppositions of necessity and urgency of the decrees-laws, stating that where the constitutional requirements are lacking, as in this case, the decree-law is censorable, even if it is converted. We then wonder where the Constitutional Court is at this time and how it will be pronounced if you, with your numbers, majority parties who support this Government, intend to convert it. We're gonna go sideways. Criticism in this case is absolutely justified. We realize that the situation of the Municipality of Rome is paradoxical, which unfortunately has been going on for many years and is attributable only and exclusively to the irresponsibility of all the directors and of all the mayors who have succeeded in the years [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , that have caused a public debt, a hole of the City of Rome that once again the State - that I remember we are all, are the citizens who are listening to us - is forced to recover, intervening for the umpteenth time putting patches to faults that can only get bigger. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Morra.]] Let us not hide the fact that it will not be with this further intervention of the State that the problem of Rome will be solved. Next year we will once again have to tackle this issue. I would remind you that the accumulation of Rome's debts, which has already been paid out to a large extent with a great deal of money that is paid out from the pockets of all taxpayers and all honest citizens, amounts to a total of EUR 12 billion. I would remind you that the mayors of all the other municipalities, with a lot of responsibility and jumping, keep their accounts in order and worry about how they use public resources, care not to waste them, and in their rescue this House does not intervene, nobody intervenes, this Government does not intervene. This is a shame, because it is a lack of respect, a very bad signal that is launched to all citizens and to all responsible, capable and honest administrators. I recall, returning to the presuppositions of constitutionality, that this decree-law clearly violates constitutional principles and takes away value from what should be the consideration on the character of extraordinaryness and the requirements of necessity and urgency. First of all, it reduces the penalty value of the retroactivity of the rules and their recurrence. It also creates legal and regulatory uncertainty, as it is impossible to provide for the duration of such provisions over time, which are of a financial nature. The Court has intervened on this subject several times. Let us also ask ourselves what citizens can understand from the enactment of such legislative acts, which are grouped under the formula 'prorogation of terms', but which contain rules that could not be more heterogeneous and that create a completely confusing regulatory framework that renders the provisions incomprehensible, not only for any operator, but also for all citizens, that must be able to understand what is approved in Parliament. There is absolutely no legal certainty and there is no respect for what should be the popular will, because the Government, with this act of empire that it does, bringing for the umpteenth time to the Chamber a decree-law of this type, clearly unconstitutional, and therefore taking back the content of a decree not converted, manifests absolute contempt for the role and prerogatives of Parliament and citizens all. It is as if we here in this House certify that, for a purely political emergency, we legitimise a government to intervene on any topic and on any issue in the future. We know what is due to this political emergency, and I want to stress this: the irresponsibility of those who have held the accounts of the Municipality of Rome over the years (for many years). This is unacceptable. We will never allow there to be, as at this moment, almost an absolute will to overshadow and to pretend nothing, so that nothing comes out of these classrooms. We'll always keep the bar straight and we'll always cross. I remember that we are, or are, voting on the premises that are absolutely missing in this decree-law, placing you before those that will undoubtedly be the censures of the Constitutional Court. President Napolitano himself - I stress this - said that it is basically the last time he allows such a thing, showing the real and strong embarrassment he had in putting his signature on this decree-law. This is a situation that cannot be tolerated and that we will highlight in every place. On this we will always put ourselves sideways, not only at this stage that concerns the presuppositions of constitutionality, but also on the substance, norm by norm. We want to see in this House which of the political forces that support the Government will then have the courage to explain it to the administrators and mayors of their territories and to their fellow citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u19	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not hide them - and I am also speaking on behalf of my Group - that we would have preferred this vote to take place at other times, because we believe that on a serious, serious and important issue, such as the lack of constitutional requirements under a decree-law, we should allow the House to give more thought. Having said that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the content of the decree, in addition to the form, which we shall examine specifically with regard to the constitutional conditions, is the plastic representation of the reason why Forza Italia has decided no longer to support this Government. The measure in question is incomplete in its political significance, but it is above all totally illegitimate in its constitutional formulation. Let's be honest, fellow senators: just read the decree, as Senator Bisinella rightly recalled, its title, as well as its content, is enough to have the feeling of approximation and confusion. We are faced with yet another abuse of the decree of urgency, both above the profile of extraordinary necessity and urgency, in total contrast to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, and in terms of the homogeneity of the contents of the legislative resolution, also imposed by Article 15, third paragraph, of Law No. 400 of 1988. Not to mention (and in any case amply we will say) the surreptitious and creeping recurrence of the decree-saving law-Rome that already, by its nature and cliential matrix, had been withdrawn and subsequently repeated by this Government. This is simply, ladies and gentlemen, an abuse: a political and constitutional abuse. It is clear that, despite statements of intent and commitments in the opposite direction, this Government insists, in perfect continuity with the previous Government, in using the decree as a preferential channel of implementation of its political direction, in total contempt for the prerogatives of Parliament. We cannot continue to forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the Constitution requires that all the rules of the decrees should also be characterized - as we have said - by essential requirements of necessity and urgency. It is clear, therefore, that the government is taking apart the constitutional scaffolding piece by piece, making the main premise of the exceptionality of the use of the decree-law as a derogation from the principle of representativeness of Parliament, drastically compressing our exercise of the legislative function and our own function. These are not our specious claims. The judgments adopted by the Constitutional Court, starting in 2008, among other things by renewing the jurisprudence in the matter of the presuppositions of the decree of urgency, consider the only non homogeneity (not to mention the recurrence) of the content of the decree-law an index of the possible non-susistence of the requirement of extraordinary necessity and urgency. The Court, in its judgment No 22 of 2012, which we have repeatedly cited and commented on in this House, considered the decree-law unlawful tout court if its content does not respect the constraint of homogeneity. As regards the recurrence, as the previous speaker reminded me, from the years Eighty the Constitutional Court, with an established jurisprudence, opposed the practice typical of an old policy (deprecable old politics from the old first Republic) of the repetition of decrees-laws and, with an absolutely innovative jurisprudence, hijacked the decrees-laws reiterated on other instruments, such as the decree-legislative or the regulation of delegification. But all this escapes this government. The subjects of this decree will never be able, even in the face of political artifices, to consider themselves entangled by that objective or functional link requested by the Constitutional Court so that the content of an emergency order can reasonably be considered as unitary and not subject to repetition, because the mere placing, colleagues, of provisions in the body of a decree-law does not apply to conveying for this reason the character of urgency to the provisions themselves; it does not apply to establishing and fixing a functional constraint. We come more specifically to the theme of recurrence, political as well as technical. After the end of the year we suffered the firm wand of the Head of State and also, I must say, the crisis of self-consciousness of the President of the Council Letta who blamed his - moreover, his - path of formation of the decree-law, now we find ourselves at the same point as before, indeed we find ourselves worse than before, because we suffer an absolutely unconstitutional repetition of those same contents that this Government had withdrawn and that this President of the Republic had sanctioned. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Marin]] Where is the Constitutional Court? Where is he? I heard earlier: where is the Constitutional Court? But I must also ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, where is the subject presenting to Parliament decrees-laws in the odor of recurrence? Where are the constitutional guarantees placed in the hands of a constitutional organizational structure guaranteed and provided in all its characteristics by our fundamental text, so often evoked and unfortunately - I must say - often disregarded? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, a disguised repetition, the one which we are obliged to examine today: a disguised recurrence which is in itself an absolute constitutional misdemeanor. Here comes the theme of repetition with political significance: behind the procedural confusion of recurrence there is a monstrous political confusion, of a government that no longer controls its majority and of a majority that moves distancingly in Parliament, with good peace of rhetoric about stability. Can we call it stability, colleagues, this sequence of messes? Despite our attempts to intervene on this text - unfortunately, the law of numbers is the one that prevails in democracy - once again the problems of the government are and will be dumped on the country's skin, in form and substance. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, and for many others, our vote will be in line with that already expressed in the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u22	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that at the moment we are faced with a test of self-awareness and of the responsibilities of this House. I will find myself saying things that my previous colleagues have already described, and I will not hide from the mundane aspects, but that we need to reiterate at the moment. According to the Constitution, in Italy the laws make it Parliament: only in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency is the Government allowed to produce acts that have the force of law. Well, we've been here for nine months now and I've seen, we've all seen, using the urgent decree as a normal instrument. This is already a strong signal of a disease, of a system that does not work according to the rules that have been given. But today to this already ill-formed situation, to this sort of pragmatic perversion, is added more: the Government repeats pieces of decrees that had fallen, and repeats them, among other things, with a sloppyness that is offensive to this Assembly, which should send the sender a decree made with the technique of copying and paste. In this case I do not agree with the previous colleague: here nothing has been placed in hidden terms, a surreptitious mode has not been used, but an absolutely driving and brazen mode. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] With the same words and commas, the rules that had lapsed with the previous decree-law have been reproposed. We know that this cannot be done, even on the basis of statements and judgments issued by the Constitutional Court. But what grieves in a particular way, especially a citizen who approaches these classrooms for the first time, is to see how things are said and contradicted at the same time. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Perhaps not even a week has passed since the Presidency of the Republic called on Parliament's assemblies to respect the homogeneity of the decrees-laws, asking that no amendments be made in the amendment to add further heterogeneity or otherwise heterogeneous elements. However, it is very difficult to add heterogeneous elements to a decree that already starts heterogeneous. It is on 27 December 2013 the note with which the President of the Republic stigmatized the tendency to produce heterogeneous decrees, but the same President of the Republic signed the decree under consideration. At this point, how do we present ourselves to the citizens? How should we present ourselves to them if, as I fear, this House rejects the contrary opinion of the 1st Commission and essentially states that Decree-Law No 151 possesses the crisms provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution? Colleagues, I ask you, therefore, very quickly, to reject, together with this decree, the attitude of disrespect of the Government for the role of Parliament and for its role. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u25	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, the debate that is taking place in these minutes and which has already taken place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reminds me of the debate that took place in this House of Parliament and in the House of Members in 1996, when the decision No 360 of 1996 of the Constitutional Court intervened, which considered the impossibility of repeating the unconverted decrees-laws. I am talking about this in order to remind myself (as is said in these cases), the Assembly and the many Members who were present at that time of the speech that was given, in the Chamber of Montecitorio, a parliamentary expert such as Senator Giovanardi (who I do not see at this time in the Chamber), then CCD leader. The debate took place in the opposition between those who said that this had always been the case and that repetition was not a novelty in the democratic life of Parliament and those who said instead that the decision of the Constitutional Court was more than necessary, first because the Constitution is a moving body, a constant becoming of States and Nations, and secondly because at that time, with a new electoral law, the relationship between Government and Parliament had changed: therefore, with the repetition of the decree-laws, Parliament would have been exhausted of one of its fundamental prerogatives, such as the control of the government's work. Why do I say that? I would like to ask the attention of senators such as Comrade and Sacconi or President Schifani about this: the risk that we are running today, admitting a vote that is not what we are now preparing to give, contrary to the constitutional requirements of the decree under consideration, is to legitimize again the possibility of recurrence, which, in this case, is implied but clearly underlying the synthesis proper to the decree. The danger is that Parliament will be dragged into an excessive amalgamation with the Government. In the constancy of the debates of the renewed PD, of Forza Italia, of the Centre-right, as well as of the whole country and of the whole Parliament, the danger that is running today is to find itself again with an authorization to the Government, which probably by the majority that is realized in this Chamber will be given, to be produced not already in the manner of the decrees of which it has been abused in the eighties - for which the recurrence was made not only in a subtitled way, with the substantial evidence, but with the formal evidence so much that the decree bore the same titration of the previous decree - but in another form. In other words, with a subtle but more than obvious return to the previous substance, there is a risk that the Government will be allowed to wear out the Parliament of a necessity that is imposed in democratic life, which is what determines in the country the breakdown between real life and political life. If the comparison is allowed to me, I would like to remind President Ciampi, who at the time when the world economic crisis broke out, said that one of the reasons for the crisis was that the financial economy had deviated from the real economy. The comparison I need to talk about the two realities: the one that exists in the country, that is the social and economic substance and the expectations of the population, and the one that is realized instead in the parliamentary classrooms, at Palazzo Chigi, in the Palaces of power. I am referring to the departure of political life from real life: a departure which, as it is implied, is even more dangerous and pernicious, because it determines those serious social upheavals that we have already experienced at the end of the seventies and at the beginning of the nineties, that perhaps we cannot recognize now but that are really serious for the country. So if, with pride over what must be the answer to our mandate, we rejected the decree, nothing would happen to the Government, which would certainly continue to operate, and to the best of its possibilities. However, we would defend the institution, which must safeguard the establishment of a fair relationship between the Government and Parliament for the defence of democracy and the main institutions. I remember that the prince of institutions is our constitution with respect to the systematic with which the laws must be introduced. Therefore, the vote against may be a salvation for Parliament and for democracy in the country, and certainly not a damage to the government's action. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have the clear impression that the debate on this decree on constitutionality, which now reproduces alas with a certain frequency in this House - I am thinking not only of the debate we had on 28 December, following the letter from the President of the Republic, but also of this morning's debate on the preliminary constitutionality of the IMU decree and the Bank of Italy - is taking on some characteristics which, I believe, have little to do with the specific merit of constitutionality. The speeches made by both the League, which I am not surprised by, and by my colleagues from Forza Italia, whom I have listened to in this House, seem to me to have focused more on the substance, on the content of this decree. The main issue on which we have focused is the one that refers to the title given by newspapers to the measure, defined as save Rome, and, in particular, to the provision concerning Rome Capital. There are a number of points which you too, Mr President, can only recognise as well-founded. On the other hand, this decree, which is the reason why the whole discussion was born, since it had been withdrawn by the Government, imposed a general reflection on the use of the decree of urgency and also on the institute of recurrence. In this case, Mr President, I believe that an operation is being carried out which has nothing to do with the question of constitutionality, partly because Decree No 151 was divided by the so-called milleproroghe, in order to try to satisfy at least the criterion of homogeneity, and similar discussions did not hear them, at least on the part of some, on the thousandproroghe. Instead, Article 4 of this decree, i.e. the provisions in favour of Rome Capital, is used to question constitutionality. As far as we are concerned, even though we have always expressed many doubts about the use of the repetition of the decree, as in this case, and having continually raised problems about the unscrupulous use by the Government of the decree of urgency, we cannot make ourselves complicit in an instrumental attack on the Municipality of Rome. In this regard, I would like to say once and for all that we continue to use the issue of debt and the deficit accumulated by the City of Rome to support slogans on the infected capital and on robbing Rome, which went out of fashion some time ago. The issue of the deficit, which has become more serious - I say this to my colleagues in Forza Italia - especially in the last five years, comes from afar: it comes from how the funds of transfer to the Municipality of Rome were historically identified. This is, among other things, a problem that has been dragging - alas - since the 1960s and which has become even more serious. Let us hope that we can have a debate on this matter. In any case, we will not be able to vote in accordance with the lack of constitutional conditions only on the basis of an instrumental use of these arguments to try to make an all-political operation against Roma Capitale. Evidently someone still does not digest that there is an attention that should instead be normal and due, as happens in all countries of the world, between the central governments and their capitals. That is why we will not be able to vote in accordance with the first Commission's vote, recognizing the non-susistence of constitutional requirements.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u31	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I agree with and support Mr De Petris's reasoning, because the speech that is being made, and which is being amplified, also because we are here, has no reason to be, and in part it is a speech that has not even been heard in the Commission. I want to say this clearly, and then I will go straight to the subject of the issues. I understand that when a tie is drawn, and therefore there is a rejection (because when a tie is drawn, in the Commission there is a rejection), each Group can give its own interpretation of the facts. But I would like to say something about this, and I will be right about this in the final vote that we will be voting in this House: the debate and the arguments offered to the debate in the Commission by the League which led to this result have no basis. There has certainly been a problem for which we must take responsibility, but we will soon see that there are no political reasons of any kind. In order to make my contribution, also as a political group, to the debate that is being held, I would like to draw the attention of everyone, not of course of President Grasso who is one of the protagonists of this affair, the content of President Napolitano's note (which was followed by a note from our President to the Leaders), when the need has occurred, warned as such by the Government and the President of the Republic, to withdraw the measure that gave rise to two autonomous measures: the thousandprorogations and the provision at this moment in discussion. I would like to point out that this was not a measure that was not converted into law because the political forces did not have the strength or the will to convert it: that is not the case. It did not come to its conversion into law because it had been so weighed down by the amendments, by the 10 additional articles and 90 paragraphs, that we received a letter from the President of the Republic that reminded us of our duties and the rules that we must respect. In the same letter, which President Grasso recalled in order to draw the attention of the Leaders to the need to respect the rules, the President of the Republic tells us what are the prerequisites for a recurrence, obviously partial, of the measure. It was in fact known to all, and first of all the President of the Republic and the Offices of the Quirinale, that there had to be certain conditions for the recurrence of the measure. Today, we are faced with a measure in which all this is foreseen. Moreover, it is enough to look at the preamble with which the Government presented the decree-law to find traces of the troubled process that led to this provision, namely the reasons for the failure to convert the original decree-law and the reasons for the necessity and urgency that support this new measure. Does it mean that it is not urgent to intervene to support and guarantee a budget to the City of Rome, the City of Capital? That is what is being said on the subject, but it cannot be said at this stage as if the conditions of necessity and urgency were lacking. Do you mean Expo 2015 doesn't concern us? That is what we say about it, but it cannot be said that there are no preconditions. And that applies to all subjects. Moreover, as Senator De Petris rightly said, where the mask is thrown, where all of us verify that the speech is entirely biased and artificially created at the table, it is because the thousandprorogues decree presents the same characteristics of this provision, because even in that case, if there had been no new and current reasons for necessity and urgency, even that decree could not have been issued. It was a parliamentary incident, it is not a political incident, and the numbers will prove it, because there will not be a defection. We do not create every time a reason for tension in this House and above all (I say this particularly to my dearest colleague, Mrs Bisinella, who, when speaking against Rome, seems to me to be dressed in other characteristics) we must all realize that the budget of Rome, being Rome the Capital of Italy, concerns us all, and that the deficit of the Municipality of Rome, given the duration of its management, is obviously not attributable to one or the other, but today the issue is to solve this problem. For this reason I say that we must convert this decree and above all overcome the impasse that we had for a simple disguido. I say this because I am proud to check that every day the entire Democratic Party's parliamentary group is present in the Commission and other political forces that are becoming strong today are only occasionally present, let us be honest. Do not take advantage, today, of the fact that there was a confusion, that there was some absence that perhaps for a moment led to this draw. We will soon see that the balance is not there, because the majority groups will vote together and without any defection to ensure the conversion into law of this measure, confirming the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency and all the conditions provided for by the law. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u32	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, on the vote against the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, in respect of the conditions required by Article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 151. Senators who intend to comply with the vote of the 1st Commission, and therefore acknowledge the non-susistence of the conditions and requirements, will have to vote yes. Senators who do not intend to comply with the vote of the 1st Commission will have to vote no. Senators who intend to abstain will express themselves accordingly. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u33	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1188.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u34	Mr President, once again we are dealing with a measure dealing with uneven matters: IMU on the one hand, sale of real estate on the other and, icing on the cake, Bank of Italy. I used to get embarrassed, now I'm actually laughing. I laugh because sometimes I have heard of it in this very Chamber and I have heard words suggesting a change of course. But words, just words, always words. With words you say anything and with deeds you destroy everything. The so-called 2005 Savings Act explicitly states that the Bank of Italy is an Institute of Public Law. Nevertheless, the capital of the Bank of Italy is held almost entirely by private entities. The number of votes held by public subjects (INPS and INAIL) is only 7,84 percent. It is at least bizarre that an Institute of Public Law has shares held by private individuals. But it has been noted that it is only a matter of form and not of substance, because there is no possibility that private quota holders can interfere in institutional decisions relating to supervision and monetary policy... Nooo! In fact, it is a problem of substance and control of interests between the public and the private, it is also a conflict of interests, precisely, between the public and the private, and it can arise, and it arises. I'll explain. The Board of the Bank of Italy has the decision to propose the share of the profits to be set aside as a reserve and, therefore, the share of profit to be distributed to the State. The Board of Governors shall also be responsible for proposing the dividend to be allocated to the participants in the capital. The Board of Directors shall be appointed by the meeting of the participants, i.e. by private entities which hold the shares in the capital of the Bank of Italy. So? And then let me say...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u35	I invite you to conclude, Senator Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u36	PUGLIA (M5S). We're just three lines away. Let me finish and say a few words to our school workers. Shame on you in the Democratic Party! All you have to do is be ashamed! You put your hands directly in your pockets... I would urge you, Senator Puglia, to stick to the subject on the agenda. PUGLIA (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. Directly in the workers' pockets... president. I'll call you back to the subject of the discussion, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). Now the right must be restored immediately. You've been caught with your hands in jam again, haven't you? The 5 Star Movement... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u37	The time at your disposal is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u38	[[Senator Puglia, with a nod, asks to continue.]] If you, Senator Puglia, stick to the subject, I'll give you another 30 seconds. If you change the subject, I'll take your word for it. PUGLIA (M5S). All right, all right, Mr. President, I'm sticking to this. There are taboos that cannot be dealt with in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm not taboo. You must abide by the Rules of Procedure. PUGLIA (M5S). All right, ma'am. In fact, in this case too, the lobbyists want to take over our National Bank, of which they already have ample possession. The lobby to which the 5 Star Movement responds, Mr President, is one: that of honest and decent citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u39	He is registered to speak Senator Marino Mauro Maria. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a timetable for my speech, but, in the light of what I heard in the general debate, I felt that I had to make a significant change. This is because I have noted in the debate some aspects of prejudice, etymologically understood, that is to say, a preventive conviction from which some of my colleagues took part and whose factual change, which emerged in the Commission's analysis of the measure, is not wanted or did not want to be taken into account. But let's go with order. The Finance and Treasury Commission has examined the text of the Decree-Law in the awareness of the importance of the various subjects it has brought, dealing with issues of important general interest (deletion of the second instalment of the payment of the IMU for 2013), with significant impact on the public real estate sector (real estate disposals), and, last, reform of the governance of the Bank of Italy (reevaluation of the shares of the share capital). I would point out, in the premise, that the examination of the measure took place in a climate of dialectic and contrast all in all correct, except for the really unpathetic story of the announcement of a pardon that was not there and that would never have been, because of the pardon it was not: for this story allow me to express a public word of solidarity to the rapporteurs, Senators Olivero and Fornaro, for the free attacks that had to suffer, even if, in the end, the thing resolved as a storm in a glass of water. As I said, the examination of the measure took place in a climate all in all correct, but not without harshness, which did not weaken the deepening and seriousness of the analysis. The choice of the instrument of the decree of urgency has been largely criticized, but I must stress that the intense programming of the work has not compressed the time of examination and has not damaged the prerogatives of any Group. I would like to take this opportunity, however, to hope that, in future too, in the field of decree-laws, work can be organised in such a way as to guarantee this objective, together with that which is no less important than the homogeneity of the subject, which is conscious - and I would like to say so in this House in order to remain in the proceedings - that, however, Parliament's responsibility for intervening on Parliament's regulations is also necessary. It is clear, in fact, that as long as the Government does not have certain times for the approval of its own measures, it will be easy to use and abuse the instrument of the decree-law instead of using the instrument more specific to the bill: a warning for us, therefore, that I would like to hand over to the House. To the comfort of these observations, I would like to remind you that the Commission has carried out a series of hearings at the highest level to deal with the issue of the revision of the capital of the Bank of Italy: the Governor of the Bank of Italy participated - with a hearing lasting more than two hours - the representatives of the ABI, ANIA and the Minister for Economic Affairs, whom I thank again for his willingness, with a hearing of three hours and a quarter. The ANCI hearing also focused on issues related to the Government's choice to eliminate the second instalment of the IMU, with adequate financial cover. In particular, it is from these that I want to start to point out that the greatest criticalities contained in the new provisions brought about by the bill n. 133 concern, first, the nullification of the tax lever attributed to the municipalities, which are seen to blame the failure to collect a multiplicity of micropayings to the taxpayers, which risks to turn, in the absence of coordination with other previous rules concerning minimum payments and the recovery activities of sums of little amount, into a significant loss of revenue. For this reason, it would have been appropriate to propose a special rule aimed at a suspension of the application of paragraph 4 of Article 25 of the 2003 Finance Law, which stipulates the non-debenza of the payment of small claims and of any kind, including tax, applicable to all public administrations, if of an amount of up to 12 euros. This measure can be regulated by the municipalities, but it is clear that against such a close payment deadline (in the decree foreseen for January 16, postponed to 24 by the law of stability) it is not physically possible to intervene effectively by regulation. Just as the non-application of paragraph 10 of Decree-Law No. 16 of 2 February 2012 would have been appropriate, which prevents investigations into forms of co-active collection when the credit to be recovered, including sanctions and interest, does not exceed 30 euros. This is particularly so with regard to the shares of IMU borne by the taxpayer, which, as we know, is 40% of the difference between the basic rate and the rate possibly decided by the Municipalities, since, given the small amounts to be paid, the limit of the municipal finding, now set at 30 euros, could constitute a loss of revenue for the Municipalities. We hope, and we are aware that it will be so, that it has been the last page of a 2013 that we can define annus horribilis for municipal finance. The new course of the Government, free from demagogic-propagandistic constraints, will have to guarantee a linear strategy that allows the municipalities to move in clarity and legal certainty. On the point relating to the taxation of real estate, it should also be noted that the revision planned for 2014 had also been suggested by the Finance and Treasury Commission with the final document of the survey on real estate taxation. Also in that concluding document reference was made also to the delicate, important and, unfortunately, still not resolved here, question for which a single real estate unit owned in Italy by Italian citizens not resident in the territory of the State and enrolled in the AIRE is to be considered directly used as a main dwelling, provided that it is not located or granted in a convenient free use It should then be remembered that on the general theme of the cadastre the Commission is preparing to conclude the process of the bill of fiscal delegation. I would like to point out that the contribution of the rapporteurs, Mr Baretta and Mr Saccomanni himself has made it possible to deal with additional issues with the adoption of amendments also proposed by the Opposition Groups, demonstrating that the opposition is never successful. In the area of tax exquisitely, however, I feel the need to stress the discomfort with the definition of tax rules which, once again, sacrifice on the altar of revenue the principles of correctness and good legislation laid down by the Taxpayer's Statute. It goes without saying that the abolition of the second instalment of the IMU required financial cover, but the levy operated on the banking and financial system in the manner and timing of the decree leads to a reflection no longer postponed on the rebalancing of the relationship between tax and taxpayers. I am more than ever happy from this point of view that the 6th Commission has decided to promote a knowledge-based survey of tax bodies and the tax-paying relationship, which will have to accompany the drafting of delegated decrees downstream of the approval of the tax delegation and which will allow us to acquire the elements in order to put hand to a cumbersome and very often unfair system. On the topic of Banca d'Italia, the last of the three cornerstones of this decree-law, there would be nothing to add after the excellent intervention of my colleague Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. The Commission has acted with the knowledge that the Supervisory Institute, as well as the entire Italian banking system, is faced with the innovative perspective of the European Banking Union and that the changes on this front represent a work in progress with a view to ensuring the autonomy and independence of the Bank of Italy, to strengthen the Italian banking system and, consequently, to protect savings and the real economy. On the other hand, it is based on choices and de facto conditions that have taken place since 1936, demonstrating the strategic and non-quota nature of the review. The establishment of the decree-law has been confirmed, but on the subject of the opening of the capital of the Bank of Italy to non-residents in Italy there has been an in-depth debate that has brought about an important change of perspective, which I hope the House will confirm. The Commission wanted, in other words, to strengthen the objectives of the Government, but it also assessed the concerns of those who consider autonomy, independence - and therefore also the prestige and authority of the Central Bank - a value and a public good to be preserved and guaranteed, starting with those who hold shares in the share capital. The rapporteurs have already indicated the individual amendments accepted. Allow me, therefore, to conclude, only by pointing out that, in other words, the choral and dialectical work carried out in the Commission, with the decisive contribution of the majority, has been central to Parliament's function. We have combined the need for reforms with the desire not to delegate legislative prerogatives to the Executive, in a first and significant attempt to reverse a practice now twenty years old to give back to Parliament and, in this case to the Senate in particular, that role as the real center of our country's democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u41	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u42	I call the rapporteur, Senator Fornaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues for this debate, which I believe has remained at the level of a correct dialectic. However, I believe that there are a number of issues that need to be highlighted. With regard to the issue of the IMU, as the President of the 6th Commission Mauro Maria Marino said before me, we close a difficult year for the municipalities, for taxpayers and, of course, a difficult year also for Minister Saccomanni and for the Government that had the objective of keeping the deficit below 3% and tried in every way to maintain it. However, Minister, with the same frankness, we invite you to oversee and act so that 2014 marks a net change, a discontinuity with respect to this 2013: the municipalities and citizens need certainty about the rules, they need certainty about the dates and - if I am allowed a joke - also on the names of taxes, because the more names we invent and more, in the end, it seems that we put new taxes, as it is not. Unfortunately, perception in modern society and communication has its own value, and I and my colleague, Mr Olivero, who listened to the whole debate, have also experienced this in this House today. There was, in fact, a great amplification compared to the theme of the mini IMU, forgetting substantially that this Government in 2013 cancelled the IMU on the main house for a value of 4.5 billion euros, while the mini IMU is worth 0.4 billion euros. Yet today the comments of the newspapers and many of our speeches were focused on 0.4 billion euros and not on the recognition of an extraordinary effort made by the government. On the subject of the Bank of Italy, I have listened to many things and I do not go into dialectic with many colleagues, although I have heard many exaggerations. I would like to look at it in positive, taking in particular the intervention of Senator Guerrieri Paleotti and the aspects he emphasized: from the decree and parliamentary work, Banca d'Italia, which is a good of this country, comes out strengthened. Its autonomy and independence are strengthened by clarifying the rights of the quotists, restricting them to the capital and protecting them from possible disputes over the past. At the end of the transitional period - on the face of the lobbyists - we will no longer have two parties holding more than 60% of the shares in the capital of the Bank of Italy, but we will have a plurality of subjects with a maximum of 3%. Finally, I would like to point out that the ceiling of 6% of dividends on capital has been laid down by law, thus including an element of clarity and a strengthening of autonomy and independence on this point too. There are, of course, Minister, still some concerns, which Mr Cucchetti has expressed, which are partly contained in the opinion of the European Central Bank, about the role of the Bank of Italy in the transitional period. We trust that the Bank of Italy will be able to prepare a procedure that is transparent and respectful of its fundamental role, in current projection and in future projection towards the banking union. Finally, I would like to thank - and this is not a good thank you - all the Members of the Commission, Mr Marino, Mr Bruschi and all the officials, for the work that has been done in a very short time. And, not least, I would like to thank the Government for the decision it has made today not to table the amendment on TASI in this House. It would have been the fastest system, but it would not have allowed that fruitful dialogue on the substance of the issues that I believe are possible in the work of the Commission. I believe that this positive work by the Commission has been demonstrated precisely during the examination of this decree and I believe that, in this spirit, we can go to the evaluation of the amendments, convinced that we can do - as I said in my report - a good job for Bankitalia, for Italy and for our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Olivero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u44	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my thanks for the comments that have been made by all of you. I will reply to some general questions, according to the order of subjects touched on by the decree. In principle, I do not think I should go into the substance of the questions relating to the constitutionality of the decree and the homogeneity of the rules it contains. However, I would like to stress that, as far as the matter of urgency is concerned, there were obviously reasons for urgency on each of the points. For the IMU, the issue of payment of the second instalment had to be clarified quickly. With regard to the issue of the valorization of buildings, I recall that it was absolutely instrumental in facilitating the realization of the disposal of buildings provided for by Decree-Law No 120 (the so-called 0.1% maneuver), which played an important role of icebreaker, giving a start to the process of disposal of public buildings, albeit for a limited amount of half a billion. Surely this is the beginning of a process that we all intend to pursue. With regard to homogeneity, Senator Lanzillotta pointed out that there was indeed a certain red thread between the various constituent elements of the decree; this red thread is precisely the coherence of the economic policy manoeuvre that we have carried out in recent months. I do not think there is any problem with the existence of institutional links or counterparts between the various aspects of the decree. On the IMU, first point of the decree, I agree with what has been said by President Marino and the rapporteur Fornaro. It closes a complicated affair, which has certainly been of great difficulty, given the complexity of the matter itself. But I would also like to remind you that in 2013 there was a strong tax relief on the first house - as Senator Fornaro said - equal to four and a half billion. The mini IMU was a necessity due to equitative reasons and equalisation, given the nature of the decision-making autonomy of the municipalities in setting rates. However - I repeat - this remains a modest element compared to the tax relief complex that has been achieved. On the issue of cover, raised by many senators, of course I have never hidden myself that it would have been a difficult process, given the need to maintain budgetary constraints, but we have tried to preserve the lower income groups and not tax people's incomes. We have, of course, introduced forms of taxation which we have tried to make less burdensome for the weak and for families. On these points, several criticisms were raised regarding the situation for 2014, in particular by Senator Arrigoni, Senator Lanzillotta, Senator De Petris, Senator Biagio, Senator Centinario and Senator D'Alì. We will take all these comments into account and it has already been decided to present, during the discussion of the decree on local authorities, the position of the Government with regard to the taxation on real estate in 2014. We have the objective of making house taxation really federal in nature, thus avoiding this year's problem of having to intervene on a tax that is decided and formulated at the centre, but which is then administered and managed in the suburbs. We are certainly committed to moving in this direction. Of course, as Senator Centinario recalled, there is a need to accompany this process to a reform of the land register. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that this is one of the important elements of the draft tax delegation, whose legislative process we hope, as a Government, that it can be quickly completed, so that we can then move on to the implementation of the delegated decrees, which in themselves do not represent a simple operation. Therefore, we would like to be able to devote ourselves to this matter as soon as possible. With regard to the issue of the valorization of buildings, referred to in Article 3 of the decree and on which Senator Lanzillotta also intervened, as I said before it is a rule that is partly linked to the implementation of Decree-Law No 120 of 2013, and introduced the possibility of making sales with private negotiation by public bodies but under public control, to avoid that there may be irregularities of various kinds. Moreover, the Ministry and the State have never entered into the specific assessments of the subject matter of the valuations of the individual real estate that has been completely left to the private negotiation. Senator D'Alì recalled the need to proceed with the examination of the matter of the valorization of the real estate with expedited step. We have completed the creation of this new intermediary, this vehicle for the sale and the valorization of public properties, and we are counting that in 2014 this activity can start fully. Finally, I come to the part concerning the Bank of Italy, which has been touched by many senators. Also in this regard I would like to thank all the speakers for their comments, because everyone has testified, albeit with different accents and with different arguments, how they consider the Bank of Italy a public asset of extraordinary importance, which results in the need to strengthen and protect it. Having worked for more than 40 years in Banca d'Italia this I was very pleased. At the same time, just for the same reason, I was a little surprised to hear many criticisms and concerns about the risks that could arise from this new structure, such as a loss of the nationality of the Bank of Italy, which could even pass into foreign hands, or the risk of a sale or privatisation, obviously in a negative sense, a loss of monetary sovereignty. Senators Vacciano, Scilipoti, De Pin, Carraro and De Petris spoke eloquently on these points. Forgive me if I still remember my personal history, but having experienced many decades of monetary turmoil and also attacks, in many periods, on the independence and autonomy of the Bank of Italy, which have been remembered by Senators Carraro and Scilipoti themselves, frankly let alone if I could accept to let the Bank of Italy run risks of this kind. In fact, in proposing the reform of the Bank of Italy, the Government has worked closely with the Bank of Italy and of course also with the European Central Bank, with which there were dense exchanges even before the start of the formal consultation. Therefore, attempts have been made to minimise the changes in the governance structure of the Bank of Italy precisely because it was an arrangement that had already been carefully examined and approved in its fundamental characteristics at the time of Italy's entry into the European monetary union. There was a very detailed analysis of the so-called legal convergence of the structure of the Bank of Italy in particular and it was acknowledged that the structure of the central bank of the Italian Republic's public institution, albeit with a private ownership structure based on the participation of private shareholders, was perfectly consistent with the structure acceptable in accordance with the Maastricht Treaty criteria. This was clearly noted by Senator Guerrieri Paleotti: there is no standard framework for national central banks in the European Union: certain criteria must be met. Therefore, let us not be alienated from the original structure of the Bank of Italy; we have only tried to eliminate some unpleasant aspects, especially from the point of view of presentation, as regards the concentration of shares on a limited number of shareholders or quotists of the Bank of Italy. We felt that in this way we should not have invented new criteria to ensure the autonomy and independence of the Bank of Italy, which instead would have been necessary to create if there had been a choice on the line indicated in the famous 2005 savings law, which involved the full nationalization of the Bank of Italy. Beyond the financial aspects, which should have been taken into consideration, there was a fundamental problem of inventing a new system of governance to ensure, under a completely state-owned ownership, the independence of the Central Bank. Instead, we have introduced novelties to solve the problems: we have set a limit to holding quotas to avoid concentration; we have expanded the number of intermediaries who can participate in capital; we have strengthened governance. I should like to highlight two points in particular in this regard. With regard to the risks, so to speak, of unwelcome influences on the part of non-acceptable investors, governance today envisages, also with regard to the requirements for capital participation, a reinforced role of the Board of Governors which must consider whether the criteria are met; likewise, the scrutiny of the personal characteristics of reliability, good repute and absence of conflicts of interest with regard to the participants in the Board of Governors is strengthened. Moreover, the total prohibition of interference by members of the Board of Governors and the assembly of participants on the policy line of the Central Bank is confirmed. So, on the whole, I believe that the Bank is being strengthened by this exercise, and I do not think there are any risks that have been feared. I would now like to conclude with a few comments on some specific points, raised in particular by Senators Guerrieri Paleotti and Cucchetti. As far as the issue of dividends is concerned, it must be made clear that capital shares are not bonds and therefore there is no fixed dividend of 6%. A maximum of 6% has been set, and I would also say for a reason for protection. I would like to remind you that the rule says that the yield must be in line with the yield of long-term government bonds: well, there has been a time, in history not far away, when government bonds made 7%, and so we wanted to set a limit at 6%. This limit, moreover, is innovative compared to the past, where there was potentially no limit to the amount of dividends that could be provided to shareholders: this new system has instead created an automatic mechanism for strengthening the Bank's capital base. Another point, raised in particular by Senator Mucchetti, concerns the method of determining the amount of the capital of the Bank of Italy. I believe that the documentation provided to the Commission, including by the Governor of the Bank of Italy, has clarified the method used, including from a technical point of view of financial analysis. Personally, I don't think I have ever used the word "reparation" to determine the share of the capital, but I simply said that the amount of EUR 7.5 billion was the closest to the total amount of profits that the Bank of Italy could have paid to shareholders in the long run of its history: this is therefore a benchmark. Senator Mucchetti also raised a number of questions about the ability of the Bank of Italy to buy back its shares, assuming that the capital increase is not subscribed. I believe that this risk is frankly entirely hypothetical and that quotas, with the new dividend legislation, are an attractive financial instrument. I therefore believe that the risk of a repurchase of the Bank of Italy, although, of course, it is not completely non-existent, is very modest: in the past we have had clear indications, from institutional investors and foundations, that they would very much have liked a tool of sure solidity, that it had a slightly higher yield than that provided by the securities absolutely risk-free, like the German or American securities. Moreover, I would point out that the Bank of Italy has the right to buy back its shares, but it is not obliged to do so. In fact, it is possible that, even in a period of time that we hope is not too long, there are situations where the quotists have too many quotas, compared to the limit that has been set and which in the Commission has been agreed to reduce to 3%. There are rules in the Statute of the Bank of Italy that stipulate that the excess shares of the statutory limit are not entitled to vote and not even entitled to the dividend that is accumulated as a reserve. This therefore makes me think that, all in all, it is hypothetical that there may be uncertainties about the value of securities or liquidity situations compared to the experience we have had in the past. In conclusion, I hope that the decree-law will be converted. In the Commission we have agreed - as the rapporteurs and President Marino have mentioned - a number of amendments which seem to us to clarify a few points, and for this I am still grateful to its members. I repeat: I am convinced that this is a regulation that strengthens the Bank of Italy and indirectly also the bank's capital base at a time when we are approaching the entry into force of a European supervisory mechanism. Therefore, it was important to clarify the current degree of capitalisation of both the Central Bank and the banks, and I believe that this paves the way for a strengthening of the ability of our banking system to return to lending to the real economy and possibly use liquidity, injected into the system in this way, to identify schemes for the absorption of banking suffering, easing the balance sheets of the banking system. On these issues we have been in contact with the Bank of Italy. A job is being finalized and we hope that, in connection with the entry into force of the new legislation on the capital of the Bank of Italy, there may also be a regulation of a private nature of the banking system that goes in the direction of reopening access to credit especially for small businesses and families. Mr President, I would like to thank you for your attention, and with this last comment I shall conclude my speech. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Naccarato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u46	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u47	The first standing Commission, having examined the draft law in its title, and the amendments relating to it, shall, as far as its competence is concerned, deliver a non-obstacle opinion. The first permanent Commission, after examining the further amendments to the draft law in its capacity, shall express, as far as it is competent, a non-obstacle opinion. The Economic Planning Committee, the budget, examined the draft law in title and the amendments thereto, submitted by the Assembly, shall express, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion which does not preclude the text. With regard to the amendments, which have already been tabled to the Commission on the subject, it takes the contrary view, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, on proposals x1.0.1, x1.0.2, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.9, 1.11, 1.12, 1.13, 1.15, 1.17, 1.17, 1.30, 1.31, 1.32, 1.33, 1.58, 1.0, 1.8, 1.16, 1.18, 1.19, 1.20, 1.22, 1.23, 1.26, 1.26, 1.27, 1.29, 1.34, 1.35, 1.35, 1.35, 1.46, 1.46, 1.46, 1.46, 1.46, 1.46, 1.46, 1.47, 1.51, 1.52, 1.55, 1.55, 1.56, 1.0.7, 1.0.8, 1.0.9, 1.0.12, 1.28, 1.38, 1.41, 1.48, 1.0.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.0.1, 2.0, 4.8, 4.98, 4.92, 4.90, 4.129, 4.80, 4.00, 4.147, 4.160, 7.17, 7.10, 7.21 and 7.0.1. The opinion was simply opposed to amendments 2.0.3, 4.93, 4.95, 4.96, 4.106, 4.107, 4.132, 4.154, 4.172, 4.173, 4.162, 4.165, 5.29, 5.0.1, 6,69, 6,89, 6.99, 6,100, 6,101, 6,102, 6.112, 6.115, 6.118, 6.125, 6.0.1, 6.0.5 and 4,1000. With regard to the newly tabled amendments, it takes the contrary view, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, of the proposals 1,200, 1,201 and 3,200. On all the remaining amendments, the opinion was of no objection.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u48	We shall now proceed to the agendas, which are set out and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u49	Mr President, I am in favour of the G100 agenda if it is reworded by replacing the words 'to consider' with 'to assess' the possibility of 'to'. I am in favour of the G101 agenda if reworded by deleting the last paragraph, since the date of approval of the budget has been delegated and is therefore part of the agreements made at the State-Regions Conference. I give a favourable opinion on the G102 agenda if reworded by including the words "a" to assess the appropriateness of "a" between the words "a" committed by the Government" and "a" to provide for the exemption." I call on the presenters to withdraw the G103 agenda because of the extraneous nature of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u50	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u51	Senator Bellot, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G100 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u52	We accept the reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u53	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Cantini, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G101?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u54	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u55	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Panizza, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G102 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u56	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u57	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Alberti Casellati, on the G103 agenda, the rapporteur called for withdrawal. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u58	Mr President, this agenda concerns the sale of real estate in separations and divorces. You know that before 1 January they could be taxed at a fixed rate. The order of business G103 tries to give an interpretation...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u59	Senator Alberti Casellati, the agenda for the G103 was already presented during the debate. We'd like to know if you're going to withdraw it or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u60	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Don't withdraw it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u61	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G103 agenda. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G103 agenda presented by Senator Alberti Casellati. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1188
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u62	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to explain Amendment No 1,201. The 5 Star Movement, during the general discussion, on several occasions affirmed the clear opposition to what the Government decided in this decree-law. With regard to exemptions from the payment of the IMU, it seems appropriate to include among the categories exempted from payment those who are owners of immovable property that cannot be used or are subject to renovation or restoration, on which, therefore, they already bear a significant economic weight due to the costs of building works. Moreover, it is appropriate, if not necessary, to exempt, above all, persons who have been in a non-self-sufficient condition for at least one year, forced into retirement homes or domiciled with relatives and who are not owners of 100 percent of other properties in Italy or abroad. In fact, for these categories it would be unfair to request payment of this tax. In the first case, the tax would be imposed on those who, even in times of crisis, decide to put in place building works on inexhaustible properties that cannot be used to produce income, thus discouraging private investments in the redevelopment of the buildings themselves. In the second case, we want to protect a weak category, represented by those who, owner of a property intended for the first home, are forced for health reasons such as to compromise their autonomy to live with care facilities or with relatives, not actually taking advantage of their home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u63	Mr President, I would like to explain in particular Amendment 1.41. We believe, as we have already said in the Commission, that this is an amendment of vital importance to our Municipalities, in particular to the virtuous Municipalities. We have asked for an increase of 10 million for the Solidarity Fund, precisely for the virtuous Municipalities that have not increased the IMU on the first house. In the Commission this amendment has been accepted in part or has been proposed foreclosures. Instead, we are asking that we be able to vote on it as proposed by our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of Mr Baretta to Amendment 1.7, because this is an amendment with which we tried to remedy an injustice, which, among other things, had already been pointed out to the House in the context of another measure relating to the payment of the IMU, which is subject to property declared unattainable or uninhabitable due to a natural disaster. Already the House had received an agenda relating to this situation and in this provision we had hoped that finally the Government would remedy this injustice because, as we know, in addition to suffering the damage of having seen its own house subjected to unattainability and inhabitability due to a natural catastrophe, the owners of these properties, who in the meantime have perhaps moved to another house, would pay on that the IMU as if it were a second home. There is an agenda that has been ignored by the Government and with this amendment we ask the Government to remedy this injustice. I think it's time to make peace with this situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u65	Mr President, as far as Article 1 is concerned, I shall just mention Amendment No 1.27, on which I would like to draw the attention of the Government, of my fellow rapporteurs and of all my colleagues in this House, because it is an amendment of high emblematic value, because it is intended to meet the needs of that unfortunately extended audience of elderly people who are permanently hospitalized in assisted health or social health care for reasons relating to various diseases, particularly forms of dementia. Well, the exemption from the payment of the IMU for the house they own, even if leased, is a way of helping to bear the burdens that these poor unfortunates with low incomes have to pay for the rest of their lives. It seems to me to be an act of solidarity which recovers, at least in part, the principle of social cohesion and reconciles generations slipped into a dramatic form of conflict. I trust in the attention of the Government and the rapporteurs. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u66	Mr President, Amendment 1.0.1, which I am going to present, is not of particular importance from the point of view of entry, but is a matter of justice. The burden of taxation must be borne not by the owner of the property seized, but, instead, by the judicial guardian who, through the proceeds of the sale of the property, must meet the payment. It is - I repeat - a measure of justice that, even if in a dispute between the parties, however, must be correctly set by the norm.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.30, which calls for us to correct a forgetfulness which occurred in the first IMU decree of a few years ago when it was decided to charge the IMU to all associations. Instead, it is asked to introduce a regulation that can exempt the payment of the IMU for the premises where the social and institutional activities of the associations are carried out and to provide for the payment of the IMU for the premises where commercial activities are carried out. We tabled the same amendment during the examination of the draft stability law in relation to which a debate was held in this House. On that occasion, with the adoption of an agenda, a commitment was made to postpone the discussion and to address the issue during the examination of the bill of conversion of the so-called IMU decree. Once again I note that the debate has not been dealt with at all, while yet another opinion from the Budget Commission has declared the amendment impossible. To date, precisely because the norm is not clear, there are many associations that have not yet paid. So, they're not missing resources. For now they are resources related to the associations that remain firm. Perhaps regulating this would help find new resources for the state.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u68	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u69	In accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I communicate that the Presidency declares that amendments 1.36, 1.37, 1.38, 1.41, 1.42, 1.43, 1.44, 1.45, 1.46, 1.47, 1.48, 1.49, 1.50, 1.51, 1.54, 1.55, 1.56, 1.57, 1.58, 1.0.8, 1.0.10, 1.0.12 and 1.0.13 cannot be accepted because of the non-content of Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which specifically concerns the abolition of the second instalment of the IMU. For the same reasons, the Presidency also states that amendment 1.0.11 (correct text), approved by the Commission, is not possible, taking into account the limits of eligibility for amendments relating to decree-laws, which by letter of 28 December last, addressed to the Presidents of the Commission and the Government, I had the opportunity to recall. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u70	Mr President, on amendments 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.201, 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 1.11, 1.12, 1.13, 1.14, 1.16, 1.17, 1.19, 1.20, 1.22, 1.23, 1.26, 1.27, 1.29, 1.30, 1.32, 1.33, 1.34, 1.35, 1.40 and 1.52 the 5th Commission's opinion was opposed in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. With regard to amendment 1.15 (correct text) of the Commission, I would ask that it be put aside because we would have an opinion against the budget Commission in the absence of a technical report, which should come. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,300 and 1,28 (text 2) and the opinion is against Amendments Nos 1,21, 1,24, 1,25, 1,39 and 1.53. The opinion on the agenda G1,100 was in favour, with the following rewording: Also on the agenda G1.150 I am in favour, if reworded, in the sense of including, in the third last line, after the word: "a", the others: "considering the appropriateness of "a".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u71	Senator Bellot and Senator Broglia, do you accept the respective rewordings? BELLOT (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. BROGLIA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.2, 1.0.9 and 1.0.7, the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u72	Finally, Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.0.4, 1.0.3, 1.0.6 and 1.0.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u73	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u74	Amendment 1,200 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.201, 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 1.11, 1.12, 1.13, 1.14, 1.16, 1.17, 1.18, 1.19 and 1.20 are impervious. Amendment 1.15 (correct text) has been put aside. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u77	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote, by electronic procedure, is implied for all the amendments referred to in Article 1. However, if you would like to ask for this form of vote from time to time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u78	You don't have to. I accept your request. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,300 tabled by the rapporteurs. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment 1.21. MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, I shall add the signature and withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendments 1,22 and 1,23 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 1.24. MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, I shall add the signature and withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u81	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we are faced with a burning issue, that of the IMU, on which we know how much has been on, and how much has been kept sharp and hard, the debate in these months. Today we are in an embarrassing situation where our citizens will have to pay what they were promised they would not pay. The Letta government did not have the courage and came to pervert logic. The tax burden on families rises to 44 percent, for companies to exceed 60 percent, but on gambling taxes are 10 percent. An industry that pollutes must undergo controls and checks; gambling dealers instead have kept slot machines disconnected for years and Monopoly have omitted controls. An industry that produces gases that are harmful to the climate must pay compensation; to the gambling lobby, which causes disasters to families, the sanction has been reduced, and with the Letta Government it has fallen to 0.6 percent of the initial sum, with a pardon that was to benefit precisely the gambling lobby. On the other hand, the virtuous mayors, who protected citizens with regulations clinging to the indiscriminate spread of slot machines, are punished with cuts in funding to the municipality. So citizens pay twice. Letta and Renzi had promised to remedy: they could begin by restoring the truth and responding to President Napolitano who, in order to add scumbags in his own decrees, is the Government itself to urge the parliamentarians. They could resign undersecretary Giorgetti, since he himself had called for the amendment against the virtuous mayors. They didn't. Today, on the IMU, they had their last chance. The mayors of Emilia-Romagna ask that the government comply with the promises and cancel the so-called mini-Imu; they ask that it be not the citizens to pay, but that a one-off tax be applied to those who in recent years have made money on their pockets, on the pockets of families and often also on health. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A government, which has combined so many, which has much to be forgiven, which has not yet freed itself of the conflict of interest with the gambling lords, was to welcome with enthusiasm. Instead, Minister Delrio first deceived and then disappointed. Less bullshit: the problem is only political will. What happened to the billion and a half promised by President Letta and Minister Delrio? Now it seems the mayors must find it with the increase of local taxes. These are the words of the mayor of Imola, of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u82	Senator Endrizzi, your speech is not on Amendment 1.25, but it is general. I would remind you that there is a contingency and that time is burning even for your colleagues who will have to intervene later.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u83	Thank you, President. I wonder if it is the same Democratic Party as President Letta or the parasindac Matteo Renzi, because it is time to clean up, and this story that you go home to ask for votes and make promises that then in Rome are betrayed must end. The mayors have made it clear that if gambling is not taxed they will ask the senators of Emilia-Romagna to drop the decree. The 5 Star Movement makes this appeal its own: this shame must not pass. I therefore ask my colleagues from Emilia-Romagna to respect this appeal and the Democratic Party, or what is hidden under its symbol, to do at least its electoral interest, at least today that coincides with the national good. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u84	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.26 and 1.27 are impervious, while amendment 1.31 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.28 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.28 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1.29 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 1.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u87	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to turn Amendment 1.30 into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda for G1.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u88	I am in favour of the G1.30 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u89	I accept the agenda for G1.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u90	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.30 will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.32, 1.33, 1.34 and 1.35 are impervious. Amendments 1.36, 1.38 and 1.37 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.39. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.39 tabled by Senator Bellot and Senator Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.40 and 1.52 are impervious. Amendments 1,41, 1,42, 1,43, 1,44, 1,45, 1,46, 1,47, 1,48, 1,49, 1,50 and 1,51 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.53. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senators Bitonci and Bellot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. Amendments 1.54, 1.55, 1.56, 1.57 and 1.58 are unacceptable. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1.100 (text 2) and G1.150 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.0.1 and 1.0.2 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.4 which is identical to Amendment 1.0.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.0.4 tabled by Senator Di Biagio, identical to amendment 1.0.3 tabled by Senator Ceroni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.6 which is identical to Amendment 1.0.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.0.6 tabled by Senator Di Biagio, identical to amendment 1.0.5, tabled by Senator Ceroni. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1.0.9 and 1.0.7 are impervious. Amendments 1.0.8, 1.0.10, 1.0.11 (correct text), 1.0.12 and 1.0.13 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5 are impervious. Amendments 2.0.1 and 2.0.2 have been withdrawn. In accordance with Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendment 2.0.3 does not apply to the content of Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which specifically concerns provisions relating to tax payments. We shall then proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u91	Colleagues, I would like to point out to you that Article 3 also provides, among the properties for sale, for real estate that have been confiscated from those who have built abusively and have not put the situation back in the pristine state, as well as properties that have passed into the property of the local authorities by virtue of a confiscation of mafias. I would like to hope that this has been an oversight of the Government and I call on all my colleagues to correct this rule by voting in favour of Amendment 3,200, because it could put us in a position to return, among other things, buildings that have been confiscated because they were built in contempt of the legislation, or worse to return real estate to mafias or loans after they had been confiscated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u92	Mr President, with Amendment 3,302, I too come back to Article 3 which provides for the exploitation and sale of the buildings of public bodies, which is why it refers to Law No 47 of 1985, namely Article 40 (6). However, I would like to point out to this House that this paragraph refers specifically to those procedures relating to judicial acts linked to failures. In fact, in that particular note it is said that the holders of a credit must be able to demonstrate that that credit is prior to the entry into force of the law. Therefore, to refer now in Article 3 to that paragraph without referring to specific stakeholders is a clear violation of Article 3, because it brings a clear advantage to those who will acquire property of the public administration without having a claim, i.e. without having a right acquired by a bankruptcy procedure. This will allow them, among other things, to heal the possible abuse, not in 128 days as Law No. 47 of 1985 provides, but in one year. So, it's really a regalia, yet another. Among other things, as my colleague said, there is no limit, no barrier that will secure us from the fact that these same properties have not been acquired, for example, by a procedure for the seizure of mafia assets. So, real estate seized from the mob could also go back to the mob. Therefore, I would pay close attention to this article, which we believe should be deleted in whole or at least in its letters (a) and (b).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u93	Mr President, I do not really know whether the amendment 3.0.1, to which I am first a signatory, is impervious. You've already failed me, and I'd like to ask you why.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u94	If anything, it's improbable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u95	BIGNAMI (M5S). Improbable, off the charts. However, in the decree we see themes such as the Bank of Italy, the IMU and the sale of real estate. The amendment to which I am first a signatory refers to the sale of real estate. Doesn't that fit the whole thing?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u96	I'm sorry to interrupt you, Senator, but since I haven't declared it improbable yet, I have the curiosity to know how you knew that I would declare it improbable. BIGNAMI (M5S). Mr President, I can explain this so that we can see if you can change your mind: you would do me a favor. In fact, I would also be willing to turn the amendment into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, I have not yet declared it improbable, I repeat it to him; therefore, he can illustrate it as he wishes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u97	Amendment 3.0.1 thinks of the last: it deals with the sale of private property and wants to reverse a wrong course that requires the weak to pay for the mistakes of the strong. I'd like to explain it quickly because I don't have much time. In practice, if a notary makes a mistake during the sale of a private property, noting that there is a surety that is actually not there, I would like to pay him too: it seems reasonable. It does not affect budget balances: it concerns the sale of real estate, like Article 3, so I hope you will accept it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u98	Senator Bignami, the very title of the amendment in question speaks of changes and additions in favour of buyers of private property: therefore, regardless of its merit and goodness, unfortunately it is totally outside of the matter, so it is impossible. You will certainly be able to propose it again on some other occasion. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u99	I am against Amendments 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5. The opinion is in favour of Amendment 3.6 (text 2) while I call on the proposers to withdraw the next 3.7 because, in our opinion, it is absorbed by the Commission's. I am therefore against Amendments 3.8 to 3.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u100	On Amendment 3,200 there is the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u101	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. I am also opposed to Amendments Nos 3.24 to 3.64. With regard to 3,203, I think it is one of the issues raised by my colleague, Mr Campanella. I have to say that in the work of the Commission - and I also ask my fellow Members for comfort - the issue he raised, namely the risk he feared, did not emerge. I would therefore propose that the amendment be put aside, asking the Ministry to make a quick check on whether the risk that my colleague has feared can be realised. So I ask for provision at this stage. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 3,203 is therefore set aside. Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. I am against Amendments 3.65, 3.66, 3.67, 3.68, 3.69, 3.70, 3.71, 3.72, 3.73, 3.75, 3.76, 3.77, 3.78, 3.81, 3.82, 3.83, 3.84, 3.85, 3.86, 3.87 and 3.91. I am in favour of Amendments 3,1000 (correct text), 3,100, 3.74 (correct text) and 3.79. I call on the authors to withdraw Amendment No 3.80. I also call for Amendments 3,88, 3,89 and 3.90 to be withdrawn, because the related requests have been collected in an overall text in Amendment 3,1000 (correct text). I also call for Amendment 3.92 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u102	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u103	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u106	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u107	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u110	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, I should be grateful if you could explain the reasons why Amendment 3,200 has been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u111	Amendment 3,200 has not been declared impossible: Amendment 3.0.1, on the subject of notaries and guarantors, has been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u114	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, I, too, understood that Amendment 3,200 was improbable and for this reason I did not give the relevant opinion. Amendment 3,200 has the same logic as the other amendment which put Senator Campanella to our attention and which we have previously set aside, so it follows the same path. That is why I also call for Amendment 3,200 to be included. I did not do so earlier because I had understood it to be impossible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u115	Amendment 3,200 is not improbable, but impervious. If you like, Senator Campanella, you can also vote. CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, may I ask why it is impossible to do so?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u116	The amendment was declared inadmissible in view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. We should ask the President of the Budget Commission why.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u119	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask that Amendment 3,200 be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is When we arrive at this amendment, which I remember is impervious, it will renew my request to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u122	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, at this point I would ask you to put aside Amendment 3,200. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.4 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.6 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission has tabled Amendment 3.6 (text 2) by means of an electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. Amendment 3.7 is therefore incorporated. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.9 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.13 Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.13, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.14 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,17 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,18. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,18 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.19 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.22, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. Amendment 3,200 has been put aside. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.24, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.25. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.26. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.26, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.27, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,28. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.28, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.29. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.29, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.30 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1188
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u125	WOMAN (M5S). I'd like to report an anomaly. There is probably an electrician to be called: there is a repeated vote on behalf of someone else. I'm asking you to check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can you point me to the place? WOMAN (M5S). The last row, next to Senator Barani, instead of Senator Comrade. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please check with Parliament's assistants. WOMAN (M5S). Senator Comrade was somewhere else. There was the colleague who voted for him. Do you want to check, please? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I beg the secretary senators to go check it out. WOMAN (M5S). The last four votes were taken by the senator next to Senator Comrade.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u126	Anyway, Senator Comrade was there. Stay in your place, Senator Comrade. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.31. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.31, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.32. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.32, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.33. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.33, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.34. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.34, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 335. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.35, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.36. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.36, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.37. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.37, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 338. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.38, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.39. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.39, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.40. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.40, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.42. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.42, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.41. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.41, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.43. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.43, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,301. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,301 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.44. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.44, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.45. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.45, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.46. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.46, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.47. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,47, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.48. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3,48, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.49. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.49, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.50. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.50, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.51. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.51, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.52. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.52, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.53. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.53, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.54. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.54, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.55. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.55, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.56. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.56, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.57. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.57, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.58. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.58, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.59. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.59, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.60. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.60, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.61. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.61, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.62. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.62, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.63, which is identical to Amendment 3.202. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.63, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators, identical to amendment 3.202, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 3.64. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.64, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. Amendment 3,203 has been put aside. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.65. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.65, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.66. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.66, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.67. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.67, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.68. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.68, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,1000 (correct text). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the Commission's amendment 3/1000 (correct text) has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.69. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.69, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.70. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.70, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.71. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.71, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.72. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.72, tabled by Senator Milo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.73. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.73, tabled by Senator D'Onghia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,100 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.74 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u129	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to speak on this amendment tabled by the Commission, drawing on it the attention of my colleagues and, in particular, of the representative of the Government. I would remind you that Article 3 of the Decree-Law is essentially aimed at speeding up and simplifying the implementation of the plans for the disposal of real estate assets of the State, to which, among other things, is linked a significant part of the public finance maneuver. I would also remind you that we have approved a maneuver to cover, for a figure of EUR 500 million, the budget balances, even with a certain amount of force, given that they are capital revenue. I recommend to the Government to evaluate this amendment tabled by the Commission, which risks totally frustrating the disposal plans and thus making public finance objectives impossible. It provides that, for goods of environmental or cultural value for which, as is well known, there are specific safeguards for the purpose of possible alienation, regions, local authorities or any association carrying diffuse interests (so also the district committee) may indicate that it would be advisable not to resign. At that point a procedure for the evaluation by the Ministries of Cultural Heritage and the Environment is opened which informs the Agency of the State property that, in the mores of this assessment, the good is excluded from the plans of disposal of real estate. As this sets in motion a very widespread dynamic and a pressure on the subjects in charge of the disposal plan, I believe it is a procedure destined to block any disposal of the assets of the State, which in 95 percent of cases, obviously, are of landscape and historical-architectural interest. I would also point out that the last paragraph of this amendment provides that, if this evaluation is successful, the management of the good (architectonic or landscape) must - let's say: can but, of course, the legislative policy direction is expressed, otherwise it would foresee many other faculties and not a single faculty - be the responsibility of a foundation of public law constituted by State, Regions and local authorities, therefore with the constitution of as many public law bodies with financial autonomy, budget and board of directors, one for every country or historical-architectonic good. I call for a reflection and, at least, for the possibility of assessing the provision of this amendment which - I would like to stress this - can constitute an element of absolute blocking of all the plans for real estate disposal, which are already made difficult by the local authorities, to which it would be up to the exploitation of the assets to be disposed of for the purposes of alienation and which, as is known, very much delay the granting of these instruments of valorization. Our Group will therefore vote against, but I would recommend that the rapporteurs consider this because the risk of calling into question the achievement of public finance results seems to me to be very high. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Does the rapporteur and the representative of the government intend to speak on this point?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u130	Mr President, Senator Lanzillotta raises some questions. Specifically, in paragraph 2-d of Amendment 3.74 (correct text) there is no obligation but a faculty is defined. In fact, it reads: "Can confer its management." However, since we have put aside other amendments, this too can be put aside to see whether the text can be improved from this point of view. However, it seems to me that some of the doubts can find a solution that allows the Civic Choice Group for Italy to vote for it. I therefore ask for the provision to be made. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Does the government representative agree with the rapporteur's proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u131	I agree with the need to set aside the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u132	Amendment 3.74 (correct text) is therefore set aside. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.75. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.75, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.76. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.76, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.77. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.77 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. Amendment 3.78 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.79. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.79, tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. Let us move on to Amendment No 3.80, on which a call for withdrawal has been made. Are the presenters insisting on the vote? MOLINARI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 3.80 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.81. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.81, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.82. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.82, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.83. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.83, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.84. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.84, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.85. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 3.85, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.86. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.86, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.87. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,87 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. Amendments 3,88, 3,89 and 3.90 are absorbed by the adoption of amendment 3,1000 (correct text). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.91. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.91 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. Let us move on to Amendment 3.92, on which a call for withdrawal has been made. Senator Lanzillotta, do you accept this invitation? LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Yes, Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 3.0.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u133	Mr President, I would like to explain a number of amendments which seem particularly significant to us on the issue of the Bank of Italy, starting with amendment 4.63... [[Brusio. Recalls of the President]] . . with which we, in line with the opinions of illustrious economists and with the indications desumible from articles of economic and financial newspapers, propose a far lower assessment of the quotas than that decided on on the basis of the report of the Bank of Italy. In our opinion, in fact, as I said in the general discussion, the method by which it was chosen to calculate these shares is completely inapplicable to our Central Bank, and it is for a very simple reason: because the dividend discount model provides in fact a projection of the future profits on which capital is determined, but we have said that private partners of our National Bank in no way can have a right to its profits, since the profits of the Bank of Italy are derived from its public activities, not only that of seigniorage. If the Bank of Italy rents a property, it is not that that property came to it by miracle, but this happened because it bought it through investment of profits deriving from a public activity, an activity that is entrusted to it under a monopoly regime by the State, therefore by Italian citizens. We therefore propose an average capital value of around EUR 1.5 billion. I would therefore like to explain an amendment which I believe to be fundamental, 4.31, with which we simply want to leave a door open, which this Government has decided to close definitively, because the shares of the Bank of Italy can also be bought - I stress - by the State and the public bodies. It makes me smile a little when the Minister of Economy tells us that the completely public ownership of the Bank of Italy would create a huge problem to determine which stakes should be in order to prevent politics from getting involved in its affairs. The stakes placed in charge of the independence of the Institute, starting from Article 1 of its Statute, in which it is stated that the Bank of Italy cannot solicit or receive pressure from public or private subjects, would be enough to dispel any doubt that a public subject, even malicious, can interfere. Look, when I speak of a public subject, I am referring to you who are in this House, and not to aliens. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi]] The government is telling you (I'll explain it better because it may not have been well understood) that it trusts private banks more than you do... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ..and think that you, colleagues, can decide to inscribe the international treaties, the Statute of the Bank of Italy, Italian norms and international norms and exert pressure on our Institute to tame it to the needs of politics. I think this is a pretty serious consideration. We simply leave the door open: with this amendment we do not expect the State to make an economic commitment, so we do not say that the State must buy back all the quotas, nor do we think that it should do so immediately. We simply leave an open door, so if the state and public bodies intend to buy shares of our national institution they will be able to do so. It's a faculty. There is no reason for To deprive us of it. We could largely regret it in the future, even very near. I come to Amendment 4,133, which has already been discussed in the Commission. With an amendment of the Commission's own, we will insert a principle of Italianity of the Bank of Italy, which, however, if it remains structured in the way it has been planned, in our opinion is fresh water. In fact, he actually photographed the current situation, but in doing so he seems to ignore that what is Italian today a tomorrow, for the mechanisms and dynamics that distinguish the market of shares, of bank ownership structures, could be, not only European, but also Chinese, Japanese or American, maybe a country that has interests contrary to ours. We, in Amendment 4,133, lay down a condition, with particular reference to banks and insurance: when the ownership of one of the members should pass under the control of a non-EU country, the right to vote on shares would cease. This would simply protect us from the fact that our National Bank could be scaled - forgive me the term - by a person who is located in a non-EU country, with interests potentially distant from ours. Turning back to amendment 4.63 and the question of capital, it solves another problem which Mr Saccomeni also briefly addressed with regard to the dividend quota. I repeat that talking about dividend, when we talk about Banca d'Italia, is incorrect; it is a ticket that we are paying to those who are not shareholders. It is not a shareholder, it is not a company that produces bolts: it is the Bank of Italy. With regard to this ticket that we pay, we said that we cannot exceed 6%: we do not understand why, but at least we want to calculate it on a smaller amount. It comes from smiling thinking of what the Minister said, namely that the average yield of government bonds has also exceeded 7%, so it was correct to think that it should be 6. When I started my work, I cut coupons - this is the term used in the Bank of Italy - to 12.5%, and I guess we were lucky not to find ourselves doing this job at that time, because now, otherwise, the Bank of Italy would have a heavy debt to private creditors. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u134	Mr President, it would appear that no one is interested in the matter we are dealing with, but I remember that we are unfortunately selling out the most important state assets that we have left. As we have already said on the question of the preliminary ruling, we are politically opposed to the establishment of this decree-law because it wants to deny what the law n. 262 of 2005 tried to put back in place through an attempt to republish the Bank of Italy. With amendment 4.89 we have tried to indicate to the Government the opportunity that it remains at least an open door with the possibility that in the near future through participation in some of these shares the State or other public bodies may be in possession of the assets of the Bank of Italy. I hope that in the total disregard of this House, just as it was at the time for the adoption of the amendment to Article 81 of the Constitution, there will be no serious crime for which our children will hate us in the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u135	I remember that the closing time of the sitting was postponed at 8.30 p.m. I therefore call on the senators who have turned away to return.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u136	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 4.0.1. It is curious: at this moment we are talking about a theme that is actually very dear and is crucial for all Italians. Saving - as has been pointed out in this House - is a constitutional right, intervenes in the well-being of the country and in the distribution of wealth and, through the credit system, heavily affects access to opportunities for social mobility. The banking system was created with this objective. I must not remind you that, since the creation of the mountains of pity forward, this has been the objective. Moreover, the Bank of Italy is institutionally aimed at regulating, coordinating and controlling the exercise of the credit. With this amendment we aim to tighten the control of the participants, and not only the direct ones, which are also the most visible ones; we intend that the control is done in a strict way also on the holdings owned by subsidiaries, trustees or by person interposed. In fact, we know very well that this is the real cancer of our system. On the one hand, we have the bad conscience of all those who consciously refuse to submit to the controls and find every loophole to escape you. But on the other hand - and let us remember that the Bank of Italy also has this task of supervision - there is the inability and often also the unwillingness to carry out on time and above all freely its duty. This, it must be said, from both Bank of Italy and CONSOB. Once again, at the expense of the illegal initiatives of the smartest and most influential are the savers, it is the young people who would like to have a credit to build the future, credit that they may deserve more than others, it is the entrepreneurs who want to produce and not speculate, who want to create work and instead do not want to choke the workers. With this decree we are going to recapitalise a bank - I repeat - which has supervisory functions. All our attention actually converges on this, which is according to the interest of the banking institutions that control it, and we do so in the context of the relationship between national banks and the European banking system. What we would have liked and what I want to highlight with this amendment would rather have been a reform of the discipline of the supervisory authorities. We would have liked Parliament to take responsibility for helping to dissolve this unbearable knot for its part. I myself tabled a draft law in June - I would like to remind you - for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the work of the Banco di Desio and Brianza, which have already been the subject of curious investigations, because they have continued for a long time and have produced results that are individually inconsistent. This bill was assigned to the 6th Commission on 23 October. I therefore call on the President of the Commission here today to give a prompt response to it, having taken into account in the report and in the words of the rapporteur the awareness of how sensitive and important the work is, in this particular political forum, to monitor and even more to understand what might be the direction in future that is most appropriate in legislative activity, in compliance with the actions of the judiciary for the situations that already see it involved, but with the awareness that this is a responsibility that politics must take. The policy must not only deal with the recapitalisation, to reward some important and influential subjects. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u137	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u138	The Presidency declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 4.50, 4.51, 4.52, 4.54, 4.55, 4.80, 4.149, 4.135 cannot be accepted for the purposes of paragraph 4-a, 4.182 and 4.0.2 because they are unrelated to the content of Article 4 of the Decree-Law which specifically concerns the capital provisions of the Bank of Italy. It also states that, in accordance with the provisions already laid down in the Commission, the proposal for the deletion of S4.2 is inadmissible as it relates to an article of a decree-law. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u139	I am against Amendment 4.1 and identical amendments 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 4.7. On Amendments 4.8 and 4.9, the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am against Amendments 4.10 to 4.28 and 4.29 to 4.49. I also object to Amendments 4.53, 4.56, 4.58, 4.57 and 4.59 to 4.65. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendments 4,1000 (correct text) and 4,66. I am against Amendment 4.67. On Amendment 4.68 there is the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. I am against Amendments 4,69 to 4,79. I also object to Amendments 4.81, 4.83, 4.84, 4.85 and 4.86. I am in favour of amendment 4.87. I am still against Amendments 4.88, 4.89, 4.91 and 4.92, while Amendments 4.82 and 4.90 are opposed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. With regard to amendments 4.94, 4.95, 4.96, 4.97, 4.98, 4.99 and 4,100, I call on their proposers to withdraw them, since the demands contained therein have all been included in the Commission's amendment 4,1000 (correct text). I am opposed to Amendments 4,101 to 4,105, while Amendments 4,106, 4,107, 4,108 and 4,109 apply to Amendments 4,1000 (correct text) and I would ask the authors to withdraw them. I am against Amendments 4.10 to 4.118, while the opinion is in favour of Amendment 4.19 (correct text). The opinion is opposed to amendments 4.20 to 4.28, while on amendment 4.29 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am against Amendments 4,130 and 4,131. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 4.132. Amendment 4,133 perhaps deserves further consideration, which is why I propose that it be put aside. I am against Amendments 4,134 and 4,136. With regard to Amendments 4.137, 4.138, 4.139, 4.141, 4.142, 4.143 and 4.144, I call on the respective proposers to withdraw them because the demands contained in them have all been incorporated into the Commission's amendment 4,1000 (correct text). I am in favour of Amendment 4,145 and against Amendment 4,146. On Amendment 4.147 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. The opinion is opposed to the amendments from 4.148 to 4.159, while on Amendment 4.160 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. The opinion was opposed to amendments 4,161 to 4,173. I am in favour of Amendment 4,174. I am against Amendments 4.175, 4.176, 4.177, 4.178, 4.180 and 4.181. I am in favour of amendment 4.179 (correct text 2) tabled by the Commission. I also object to Amendments 4,183 and 4,184. Invitation to withdraw the agenda G4.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u140	Senator Carraro, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u141	Mr President, I keep the agenda for G4100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u142	I therefore object to the adoption of the G4100 agenda. Finally, I am against Amendment 4.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u143	The Government's opinion is in accordance with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u144	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u147	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u148	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u151	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the euro came into force, the role of the Bank of Italy has been reduced: it has no longer done the country's monetary policy, and it has remained its supervisory competence. In these days it has been decided that the competence on supervision will, in part, be transferred directly to the ECB, with regard to the main institutions: 14 or 15 institutions in Italy. I would therefore like to remind you how the share ownership of the Bank of Italy has evolved over time. The owners of the shares were the banks, which were almost all public - indeed they were all - then in the nineties they became private, but only through the instrument of foundations, being all Italian banks. Such banks - this was and is an anomaly - on the one hand they are shareholders and on the other they are supervised by the Bank of Italy itself. Probably - indeed certainly - the fact that they were supervised made sure that the banks refrained from the scope of the management of the Bank of Italy. We now know that the shares of Italian banks have gone out of hand: in some cases, as in the case of the National Labour Bank, the majority has become a French institution. But there are also non-European institutions that are entering the capital of banks significantly, and we do not know what future development will be. At the same time, we know that the Bank of Italy's main activity is the performance of typically public functions. For all these reasons, the Italian Parliament, not in the last century but in 2005, established that the Bank of Italy would become public: it publishes as are the Central Bank in England, Germany and France, which are not illiberal countries, indeed. Now, with the decree-law under consideration, and above all with Articles 4 and 6, we move directly to establish that the Bank of Italy becomes absolutely private and that even the Italian public entities and the INPS will have to reduce. Therefore, it will become totally self-referential. The only great guarantee - said the Minister himself very correctly - of the role that the Bank of Italy will play in the economy of our country derives from the European Treaties, which provide for a clear and precise role for the Central Bank. Does it seem right then that we should vote in this direction on a decree-law without debate and without thinking about what is the ideal solution? Is it right to learn from newspapers that most likely the Deposit and Loan Fund will not enter the Bank of Italy but in Eataly? Farinetti is a very capable person, but frankly I think the Bank of Italy is more important. Forza Italia absolutely agrees that the capital has increased. We also agree - and a measure exists in this sense - that by 31 December the amendment of the Statute of the Bank of Italy will become operational so that, above all, Banca Intesa and Unicredit will be capitalised in a more significant way. But, dear God, is it right for Parliament to abdicate its role and decide to tell the technocrats to do what they want to do? Do you want to do it? Do it. We vote against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u152	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. The proposal to delete 4.2 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.3, which is identical to Amendments 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 4.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator De Petris, identical to amendments 4.4, tabled by Senator Vacciano and other Senators, 4.5, tabled by Senator Scilipoti, 4.6, tabled by Senator Carraro and other Senators, and 4.7, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. I declare the vote open. (Senator Scilipoti makes a sign that he wants to intervene.) Senator Scilipoti, what do you ask for the floor for? SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wish to speak on Amendment No 4.5 which I have tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are in the process of voting. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I asked to speak before the vote was taken. Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. I shall cancel the vote and give you the floor. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I'm sorry to steal valuable time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please enter into the realm of the matter. This is about the deletion of the article. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you for your suggestion, but I know perfectly well what I have put forward. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I just wanted to help her. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, but you're already helping me enough. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'd be avoiding jokes by now.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u153	Having said that, Mr President, I have proposed the deletion of Article 4 for a number of reasons which I have outlined this morning. Among other things, with much savoir-faire, our colleague from Forza Italia has tried to tell you in every way that it would be advisable to delete Articles 4, 5 and 6 because talking about the Bank of Italy is very serious. We should think against what we are doing. That is to say, we should discuss this subject extensively and we should return the Bank of Italy to the Italians and not sell it out. If we were to opt for the final sale of the Bank of Italy, we should create the conditions for the creation of a new National Credit Institute. The loss of monetary sovereignty, as we argued this morning, in fact involves irreversible damage to the country. It is not conceivable that it is discussed without blinking the eye of a measure that presents provisions of a legal nature regarding the Bank of Italy. It is not conceivable that we can not discuss the fate of the Bank of Italy which will determine in a few years. The Bank of Italy could be managed by non-EU countries. [[Comments of the PD Group.]] Allow me to make this reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be non-EU countries outside the European Community, because financial intermediaries could also give to countries outside the European Community the shares of the Bank of Italy. Today, here in the Senate, it is stated that there is the willingness of some parliamentarians to vote in favour of the loss of monetary sovereignty of the country and the sale of the Bank of Italy, with its transfer to those who have built systems that have created only and exclusively damages to our country. Then, Mr President, today it would be important to stop for a moment and make a reflection in the interest of the country. The reflection should not be to speed up the time to vote, but to delete Articles 4, 5 and 6 and call them into question in another measure and session in order to be able to deepen the subject and thus discuss it at its best. Mr President, colleagues from the 5 Star Movement are right, colleagues from Forza Italia are right, colleagues who take a position by applying Article 67 of the Constitution to vote against the party directives, because today we should vote in favour of Italy. Today we should decide to give preference to the party where we are fighting, which gives us directions to vote against the Italian people and against the country, or to vote in favour of the Italian people by applying Article 67, in contrast to what is dictated to us by our own parties. Today we are called to make MPs to 360 degrees, favoring the country and the Italian people. When the interests of the country conflict with party interests, each of us should take a clear and clear position in favour of the country and not the party. Today each of us has a great responsibility, which does not stop at today's date, but will weigh on our shoulders for the years to come. We'll decide the fate of our country. I would ask you, Mr President, who are wise, brilliant and wise, to invite Members to delete Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the Decree-Law with your own reflection. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups. Ironic applause of the PD Group Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u154	I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator De Petris, identical to amendments 4.4, tabled by Senator Vacciano and other Senators, 4.5, tabled by Senator Scilipoti, 4.6, tabled by Senator Carraro and other Senators, and 4.7, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 4.8 and 4.9 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u157	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, is it possible to put Amendment 4.9 to the vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, senator, with the support of the prescribed number of senators. However, it is true that I am proceeding quickly, but I recommend that you be timely in your requests. BLUNDO (M5S). Sure. I would like to know if my group still has time, because I would like to speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u158	Yes, Senator. I would remind you, however, that a colleague of yours has spent almost all the time at your Group's disposal, so you can now speak for a minute. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u159	Mr President, the 5 Star Movement cannot accept the transformation of our Central Bank into a public-owned private company, and this has also been said by other colleagues. We cannot allow the Bank itself to distribute to private bankers up to EUR 450 million a year, up to 6% of the new share capital, set at EUR 7.5 billion, in accordance with the provisions of the measure under consideration today. The 5 Star Movement and - I add - each responsible citizen, cannot share the fact that the quotas that were to pass to the State, as established by an unimplemented law of 2005, currently owned by Italian groups, are then sold to non-EU subjects.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u160	Finish your surgery, Senator Blundo. On the basis of this necessary premise, Mr President, with amendment 4.9 we propose that the Bank of Italy, the Institute of Public Law, should remain independent in the exercise of its powers and in the management of its financial activities, and that the individual nominal shares of participation in the new capital should be EUR 20,000 and belong solely and exclusively to public administrations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For the second time, please conclude. Don't make me take your word for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u161	My group had more minutes at their disposal. The amendment states that each participant may not, directly or indirectly, have a share of the capital of more than 5%, and that for excess shares... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u162	I'm sorry, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u163	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to attach the full text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u166	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make one point. Unless I was wrong, because given the late hour I might even be tired, it seems to me that at the 5 Star Movement there are still four minutes left. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I haven't timed, but I trust what the offices tell me. Montevecchi (M5S). In the light of what I'm telling you and of the fact that you allowed our colleague, Senator Scilipoti, to express himself for as long as you like...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u167	It's not like that. Senator Scilipoti had at his disposal the time that had not been consumed by other colleagues in his Group. I don't accept these... [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi]] The senator had time and was given. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Lanzillotta and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u168	We still had time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u169	According to the information I have, your Group no longer had time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u170	Montevecchi (M5S). According to mine, yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can check at the end of the session. You've gone through six minutes, according to the checks that have been made. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.9, on which I would remind you that the 5th Commission has given an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, previously made by Senator Blundo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.9 tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. [[Senator Scilipoti points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Scilipoti, the vote has been opened, so you can't intervene. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1188 president. Senator Scilipoti, what do you want to intervene on?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u171	Mr President, I wanted to speak to say that I wanted to subscribe to Amendment 4.9, but you are not being fair to Members. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u172	I absolutely do not accept this accusation from you. You can accept the amendment whenever you want, you must not do so before the vote. You can sign it now.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u173	[[Comments of Senator Scilipoti]] If you don't want to sign it anymore, don't. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Indeed, the amendment must be signed first. In any case, because I don't want to be controversial and I recognize your role at three hundred and sixty degrees... president. No, you said I didn't act properly, and I'm not letting you do that. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). He didn't let me finish talking. Having said that, I wanted to endorse not only Amendment 4.9, but all the amendments to Article 4 at the first signature of Senator Pepe. I wanted to make this statement. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u174	But why didn't you do it during the presentation of the amendments to Article 4? I'm sorry, but you're not on time for surgery. Senator Pepe, do you agree that Senator Scilipoti subscribes to all the amendments you have tabled to Rule 4? PEPE (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Given the time, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u175	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-162.ana.u176	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 9 January, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.32 a.m.
