ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u4	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes Since no further comments have been made, the Minutes are hereby approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u8	TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 92 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, on a point of order. Today is the news of the referral to judgment of Senator Maurizio Gasparri. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Taverna, what is the subject of the point of order? TAVERNA (M5S). The request to resign as Vice President of the Senate of Senator Maurizio Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u9	This is not exactly a point of order. You will be able to do this at the end of the sitting, because it is not a matter for the Rules of Procedure. TAVERNA (M5S). Gladly, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1387. I would remind you that the vote on the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the decree-law ended in the afternoon sitting. (16.38 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u14	On what, Senator Buccarella?.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u15	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I repeat, with a call for greater weighting, Senator Taverna's request. I think that the reference to Rule 92 (1) of the Rules of Procedure is entirely valid in order to make a point of order, especially since the subject of the speech concerns, as we already saw, an important office of this House. I therefore call for time to be allowed to go on this point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u16	Senator Buccarella, you repeat Senator Taverna's request and I will repeat the answer that has been given to you. The subject is not on the agenda of the sitting and therefore cannot be discussed during the sitting. It can certainly be dealt with at the end of the session as an intervention at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u19	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I rise to announce that the Civic Choice Group is voting in favour of this measure, which is linked to the launch of the single banking supervision mechanism by the European Central Bank next November. It is a fundamental mechanism for the progressive achievement of economic union, as well as monetary union; an instrument that has been badly lacking during the financial crisis of these years. The establishment of the Single Supervisory Mechanism, as is well known, is one of the steps planned for the implementation of the Banking Union, aimed at creating an integrated financial framework to safeguard financial stability and minimise the cost of bank failures. The Supervisory Mechanism Regulation provides that the Central Bank, with a view to the extension of its tasks, shall conduct an in-depth assessment of the situation of the European banking system and the exercise carried out on the basis of the information to be provided by the national authorities and the banks concerned. With subsequent communications, the ECB has made known how and how to conduct the assessment, which has an impressive scope. It will involve about 128 banking groups, of which 15 are Italian. Now, the assessment of the larger groups will be carried out directly by the Central Bank, which considers, however, that the whole of these activities is of such magnitude as to require the activation of that possibility which the Community legislation provides possible: that of the assistance of other private entities with certain characteristics and which, however, had not yet been transposed into our national law as a faculty of the Supervisory Authority. It stresses the importance that the entities entrusted with this function can intervene at this stage for two reasons: one is the size of the tasks assigned to the Bank and the other is the need for these entities, with the task of verifying the characteristics of the banking institutions under supervision, to have the necessary third-party and independence. Of course, we support this measure and take note of the needs represented by the Bank of Italy. However, we allow ourselves to stress, also in the face of a planned financial commitment of about EUR 30 million, which will be covered by the Central Bank's budget, that the Central Bank, which has retained a large part of its structures, despite the reduction of its institutional tasks, should strengthen and maximise its intervention capacity and, in our view, minimise the intervention of other bodies, thereby reducing the additional burden for the institution itself. With regard to independence, we believe that the Supervisory Authority, which is third and independent by definition and by statute, would be the one most suited to the characteristics that this function must fulfil. With these remarks, we announce our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u22	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that my speech will not in any way concern the technical content of the measure on which, as you know, we have already had the opportunity to discuss first in the Commission and then in this House this morning in the general debate. It is, in my view, much more interesting to focus our attention on the principle that governs and inspired this measure, namely that banking union of which, in recent years, characterized by recession and economic crisis, we hear more and more talk. You will all remember how a few weeks ago the Council and the European Parliament, with their great jubilation, defined the agreement on the last stage of the creation of the European Banking Union as a success. But we are not quite sure that this is the case and we have many doubts that this is a success. (16.44) (Follows BELLOT). Beyond what Brussels decides and states, each of us, every day, cannot fail to notice how deep the distance between a northern European area, where governments continue to support the local banks, and a southern area, ours, where, as we unfortunately can witness, the situation is much more difficult and complicated. Retracing some of the most recent stages in the history of the Euro-crisis, our memory runs immediately to the months between June 2012 and the end of the same year, when - just for everyone to remember and remember - the Spanish banks were on the abyss of failure and the shadow of a domino effect over the whole of Europe reigned undisputed. It was then, at that very moment, that it was decided, following the example of the American model, that the euro system should have a banking union, the aim of which was to verify the responsibility for the management of bank failures. A choice which, on the one hand, gave oxygen to the single currency, on the other, has changed the very framework for banking union. We know that the ECB will start to monitor the major credit institutions directly from next November, limiting itself, for the time being, to analyze their budgetary soundness. The inevitable consequence, in our view, will be that while the undercapitalised banks would be forced to seek new capital, those with greater difficulties could be phased out. In fact, pending the entry into force of the eurozone's single resolution mechanism, the banks of Northern Europe would be supported by the large governments, precisely the most stable, while this operation would undoubtedly be at least more difficult for short-term liquidity institutions, those in the Mezzogiorno. In fact, we know that this situation is evident - and we are experiencing it - in the Mediterranean area. In essence, therefore, the system risks becoming strongly unbalanced, with the rescue of banks that will remain in the hands of national governments, mostly or mostly controlled by their banks, but with obvious differences on the ability to intervene in their aid. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the banks of Northern Europe will have more opportunities to be supported, unlike those of the Mediterranean area which, in order to survive, will be forced to borrow the necessary money, and once again to bow to the Northern European system. The final picture, ladies and gentlemen, is easily desumable, i.e. an increasingly evident fracture between the northern and southern parts of Europe, where credit institutions could find themselves at higher financing costs than their German or French colleagues. This is a possibility which, as it is easily intuitable, would have serious and damaging consequences on the production system and especially on companies, with those of Northern Europe once again benefiting from those of the Mediterranean area, with a situation of competition not entirely fair and fair. The risk is that the much praised growth becomes increasingly difficult, all the more so for our companies, typically characterized, as we all know, by a structure of medium-small size. Once again, in short, Brussels seeks unnecessarily a union, in this case banking, that instead of smoothing out and filling the growing differences within the Eurozone, the vast ones inexorably. It is today's article - someone may have read it on "Il Sole 24 ORE" - which says that the nascent banking union implies an important transfer of sovereignty. It is clear, however, that a stronger banking union will lead to a consequent loss of sovereignty. That is why the Group of the North Legacy will vote against this measure when we consider it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u25	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote against this measure because of the concerns we had already raised during the general debate. We believe that it is of absolute importance for the supervision of the credit system, even in a framework of uniformity on a Community basis, cannot be carried out by subjects or professionalism who are, in some way, the expression of subjects coming from the private financial system, which is objectively the field on which the supervisory and control function is exercised. In this way - even with all the cautions that have been introduced with the adoption of the amending proposals put forward in the Commission - there would be a substantial identity between the controller and the supervised person. We believe that this is risky, also because of the perspective that has been drawn within the Community from the point of view of the management of relations and relations with the financial system: we believe that it is risky, in particular, for the results that supervisory action can produce and that are well known. In fact, supervisory action can be followed by actions to which the credit system is obliged, and our credit system cannot be in a condition in which, even because of the uniformity of the actions that must be taken, decided within the Community and arranged mainly by the ECB, there is a further crisis in order to support our credit system to the production system. Therefore, for these reasons, which are more than relevant to our decision - there would also be others, but it is useless to recall them here - we shall vote against this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u28	Barani (GAL). Madam President, even our Group will not vote for the conversion of the decree-law on urgent measures for the benefit of third parties for the exercise of the supervision of the Bank of Italy, because, Madam President, it is useless to close the doors when the oxen have escaped. Let us remember that during the Monti Government it was necessary to take part in the debt of the failure of the Greek banks, where the German and French banks were exposed in particular, and at that time we were called to compensate for the lack of liquidity, especially of the German and French banks. Madam President, it is useless, therefore, that we are now saying that we are reducing the risk of banks failing in the European Union. We have already done so and we have endured, of course with great sacrifices from the Italians, the lack of supervision by the ECB. Economic union, financial union and monetary union cannot exist if we continue to prevent the Central Bank from printing money. We must put ourselves in the head that if we do not print money - I believe that my colleague from the North League has already pointed this out - the banks of Northern Europe will be better supported by their states and will therefore prevail over the banks of the Mediterranean. We should be able to remove this original sin. Already in this morning's speech I had the opportunity to speak of a prediction of a great statesman of the last century (I remember his name, Bettino Craxi), when he said that with the European Union as we have achieved it (i.e. only a monetary, economic and financial union and not a political union), if we did not allow States to beat currency, we would have met what he called a hell, as it was. Following the change we made with regard to the Bank of Italy a few weeks ago, I spoke in this very Chamber saying that we sold the Bank of Italy to private individuals. And these privates we are now going to try to guarantee them with the money of sovereign states. This great weakness on the one hand, and this great capacity on the part of the banks of Northern Europe and of those who are managing economic and financial policy, including the spread in Italy, namely Mrs Merkel, on the other hand, do not have at the same time such a strong Government that we can prevent our economic and financial vassal with regard to Germany. If the Italian Government imposes itself and obliges it to print money with any effigy - I am convinced: even that of great exponents of the former Communist Party, it does not matter who the image is - it would get the aim for which it is fought: that of relaunching the Italian economy. Therefore we believe that the decree-law under consideration is late, insufficient and that above all it does not solve the issues underlying the economic and monetary failure of our country; the problem of the interests of Germany and in part also of France, which obviously continue to colonize the Italian economy. We are completely invaded by foreign influences on our patriotic soil. We therefore believe that these urgent measures for the benefit of third parties for the exercise of supervisory activity are not necessary. What is needed is for the ECB to beat money and - why not? - also with the image of what was one of the fathers of the European Union: Bettino Craxi. I am convinced that that money would be useful and would also collect those who go to do political activities in view of the European elections around Italy (because some non-oil): even the leader of the 5 Star Movement would put them in their pockets, even if they have the image of Bettino Craxi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u29	We greet the delegation of the Regional Parliament of the students of Tuscany, who is today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u32	Mr Mancuso, rapporteur. Madam President, I have listened to those before me and I consider some of the concerns that have been raised during the general debate and explanations of vote to be absolutely legitimate about two important aspects of this decree-law, such as conflict of interest and professional secrecy. It seems to me, however, that, having deepened the issue, there are measures within the Bank of Italy's regulations, especially in respect of supervision, that protect us from any concern in these respects. I therefore believe that this is a fundamental step towards the process of banking unification. If one believes in certain objectives and objectives, if one believes, ultimately, quite simply, in a more united and better Europe, even from the banking point of view, we must necessarily adapt. The Bank of Italy, in fact, as we have seen, is one of the few European institutions that does not make use of third parties in the tasks of banking supervision. Therefore, at a time when Europe is asking us, in the context of the procedures for deepening, to give the Bank of Italy the power to do so, we cannot - if we believe in these objectives - absolutely preclude the possibility of moving towards banking unification. I agree with Senator Barani, who is talking about printing money, but it is clear that, if we are to do so, if we are to believe ourselves, we cannot stand in the way of this kind of definition. It is clear that, even in the perspective of the European elections, we want to use this measure to appear more or less anti-European. I think this is wrong. In fact, it is clear that those who do not believe in Europe hinder certain processes, while those who believe in them, like us, can do nothing but favour certain procedures. This is one of them. We, as the New Right Center, can only agree on the adoption of this bill. As rapporteur, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the President of the Commission, the Offices and the Undersecretary for their work. The New Right Center will vote in favour of the decree-law conversion measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u35	VACCIANO (M5S). Madam President, frankly, from some of the speeches I have heard, I have the doubt that some of my colleagues have not read this measure and have assessed its very limited scope: but, rightly, everyone intervenes as he thinks. The measure which we are examining today, which has become necessary exclusively to adapt national legislation to the requests made by the European Central Bank in view of its taking over of the single supervisory tasks of credit institutions, gives some ideas for reflection. As a preliminary point, it is appropriate to point out that the regulatory provisions contained in this Decree-Law are explicitly referable only to banking supervision activities related to the in-depth assessment provided for in EU Regulation 10/23. We are therefore talking about a very limited legislative act, since, as you know, the ECB intends to conclude the in-depth evaluation of the banking system in October this year, so that it can start the new supervisory tasks in November. In the ECB Note of October 2013, which for obvious reasons refers in general to all the national authorities to which the supervisory functions are responsible (for us, the Bank of Italy), it is expected that the latter will turn to private sector experts to receive assistance in carrying out tasks that must necessarily be carried out over a short period of time and that are potentially more burdensome than normal supervisory activities. It is therefore reasonable to envisage, even for mere reasons of regulatory standardisation, that this option should also be extended to the Bank of Italy. I also note, with some concern, the considerations made by the representatives of the Institute of Via Nazionale during the hearing in the 6th Commission. In particular, I am referring to those who stressed the political opportunity for third parties, without which, I quote, we could have weakened, in the eyes of the market and investors, the perception of impartiality of the exercise. Let me just add: let us hope then that this perception has not been missed before and will not be lacking in the future. In any case, the legislator cannot fail to consider the peculiarities of his own supervisory system. While in some European countries it may be absolutely necessary to use external entities, the Bank of Italy, also thanks to its strong supervisory structure and extensive experience, could perhaps have met most of the needs associated with Asset Quality Review activities simply by making better use of the human and technological resources already present in the Institute, providing in time, where necessary, for a strengthening of the same through the exploitation of internal personnel. It should also be considered that the services rendered by third parties have involved and will entail extraordinary expenses from the Institute (quantified between 20 and 30 million euros) and although the latter do not in any way weigh on the budget of the State - which should be known to all, even to a Premier - it is true that the principles of reasonableness and affordability applied to public administrations in the context of the activity of expenditure are also extendable to the Bank of Italy, which, among other things, has always affirmed its applicability within its own. The advantage of external subjects, perhaps anticipating a necessary training activity, should have been an extreme solution, to be experienced in a condition of proven inadequacy of internal resources. This is also due to another consideration: while current supervision is now based on a framework of internal and Community rules that strongly safeguard the autonomy of the function vis-à-vis third parties, including and above all government, this coverage does not appear to be automatically extended to any new actors involved, which therefore risk being permeable to political or other pressures. That's not all. The current regulatory framework provides that the staff of the Bank of Italy that carries out supervisory activities are obliged to report all the irregularities detected, even when they assume as crimes, exclusively to the Governor, who in fact replaces the prosecutor of the Republic competent for matter and territory and is in turn subject to the obligation to report to the investigator magistrate. Since this decree extends these forecasts also to any third parties involved in supervisory activities, it is clear that they are also given a great, implicit power of pressure to the Governor, who of course cannot ignore the complaints received. Since this decree extends these forecasts also to any third parties involved in supervisory activities, it is clear that they are also given a great, implicit power of pressure to the Governor, who will of course not be able to ignore the complaints received. I wonder whether these aspects have been assessed or whether there has simply been a hasty translation into law of the requests of the European Central Bank. I shall conclude with a more general reflection on the subject on which we are debating today. On the one hand, it is true that the obligation imposed on the inspectors of the Bank of Italy to report only to the Governor regarding the irregularities detected finds its original justification in the need to avoid that such irregularities can be recognized before the bodies responsible for the discipline of the credit are able to intervene in order to exclude or at least mitigate its harmful repercussions. On the other hand, it is also clear that this system places obstacles to the detection of crimes, even not typically banking, committed within credit companies: even at best, investigators will be informed with some delay or will have an initial documentation filtered by the supervisory body. We are in the presence of a reserve of law, also in criminal matters even if limited to crimes typically banking, whose interpretation poses delicate problems considering also the possible repercussions on the principle of legality. It would therefore be appropriate to establish in a definitive way what the Governor's behaviour should be when he becomes aware of criminally relevant facts, i.e. whether there should be an interest in curbing the risk of spreading the loss of confidence in the credit sector or, which we consider to be the main one, of communicating without delay any serious irregularities to the judicial authority. Finally, I take advantage of the presence of the representative of the Government for one last note: I think it is appropriate to inform the Head of Government that, if it were decided to close 108 branches of the Bank of Italy, it would be necessary to open 50 of them first since, at present, there are only 58 existing branches. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u38	SCIASCIA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, European Regulation No 1024 of 2013 which entered into force on 3 November 2013 provides that the European Central Bank may, by virtue of its powers, request the competent national authorities to provide it with all the information necessary to carry out an in-depth assessment of the credit institutions of each participating Member State. On the basis of this provision, the measure under consideration, assigned to the 6th Senate Commission in its referent on 14 March and approved with amendments on 8 April, allows the Bank of Italy, as the competent national authority, to make use of third parties for the exercise of the activity of information supervision and inspection of banks and national banking groups, for the exercise of the assessment to be concluded by the European Central Bank by 3 November 2014 and which provides for the examination of 130 credit institutions active in 18 Member States. For Italy there are 15. The Oliver Wyman International Advisory Group has been appointed as the primary advisory body for the European Central Bank, which may also advise the Bank of Italy on request to obtain information on the modalities of the inspection. I recall that the assessment of credit institutions applies where: the total value of assets exceeds EUR 30 billion; the ratio of total assets to the GDP of the Member State concerned exceeds 20%; the credit institution is one of the three largest institutions in a participating Member State. The assessment is carried out in three stages: a risk analysis for supervisory purposes; an examination of the quality of the assets; a stress test. The outcome of the evaluation will be reflected in a number of measures. Consequently, in order to be able to put in place the assessments already mentioned of weight and complexity not indifferent, since the main Italian banks and credit institutions must be verified, the Bank of Italy will be able to avail not only of its own technical inspectors but also of third parties, in number of approximately 65-70, operating in the field of liberal professions such as auditors and evaluators. This is, therefore, a very important procedure, particularly of a technical nature, because it is moving towards the establishment of a single banking system. All this said, I preannunciation the favorable vote of the Group of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u41	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the launch of the Single European Supervisory Mechanism and the assumption by the European Central Bank of the supervisory tasks so far entrusted to the national central banks represent, as has been pointed out by a number of previous colleagues, an epochal passage, of which perhaps not enough has been discussed and on which perhaps not enough attention has been paid, for their reflections and future consequences. The ongoing assessment of risks, asset quality and stress tests will have to be carried out by October 2014 and will cover 130 European credit institutions, accounting for around 85% of the old Continent's banking assets. It is an evaluation activity that will finally allow uniform assessment parameters for the whole European banking system, thus taking away space from national cunning and, above all, international speculation. Like Governor Visco, I am convinced that the Italian banks will emerge well from these exams, and this will allow to overcome the phenomenon of credit crunch that characterized the last two years. We note with great satisfaction that, after many months of decline, the employment of the banking system, last March, has finally grown: they have reached about 1,850 billion euros, that is, two billion more than in February. Let us not forget, however, that in March two years ago these had reached 1,950 billion, or 100 billion more than today. The credit given to healthy companies is, in fact, a fundamental component in order to get out of the crisis. In this context, the concern for the constant growth of the suffering of the Italian banking system remains strong for us, reaching the level of 162 billion before write-downs and 78 billion euros for net suffering. These are levels of suffering which, apart from the objective effects of the recession, should lead to serious self-criticism on the past and a rethinking of credit delivery control systems and criteria for assessing impaired positions. Let us therefore welcome European supervision: supervision with a uniform system of assessment, as I said, and, as far as it remains, with the Bank of Italy. As has been mentioned, the decree simply allows the Bank of Italy to integrate, with 65 external professionals, the staff of internal supervision available to the chief inspectors. There is a passage to be clarified, which we wanted to deepen in particular with the hearing of representatives of the Bank of Italy: the position of external professionals will be of staff and support to the chief inspectors and will never, therefore, be an independent activity compared to that of the head of inspection of the Bank of Italy. In other words, inspections are not only carried out by external entities. Therefore, from this point of view, the concerns that have been expressed by several colleagues seem to me to be able to find a correct answer precisely in this activity of support and staff and not of absolute independence. For these reasons, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this measure. We take this opportunity to renew our appreciation for the difficult work carried out by the Bank of Italy in recent years, recommending that they continue to ensure, in their supervisory and supervisory activities, the utmost attention and control while respecting the basic principles of transparency and fairness in behaviour, which, if possible, appear even more important and decisive at such a delicate stage not only for our banks but for the entire Italian and European economy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u43	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u44	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I think that the debate in this House is always good and, unlike some of my colleagues, I do not think that anyone is wasting time. I refer in particular to a few words used yesterday during the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I would like to point out to you that you disagree with this provision. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Yesterday some colleagues of the 5 Star Movement in the demonstration used a reflection saying that he was was wasting time. I believe that no one here wastes time and that everyone tries to make a contribution in the overall interest to ensure that laws are brought forward for the benefit of the country. Someone, after my speech, will wonder what the link between the bill and my reflection is. The link is there, dear President, because I am talking about Banca d'Italia and, therefore, all the passage that is being called into question today on this draft law I do not share because I think it is wrong at 360 degrees because the approach should be completely different. We should reflect differently from what we are doing, and we should question the situation of the Bank of Italy at the present time. The Bank of Italy is not a bank of Italy, but a private bank, which acts not in the interest of the community and of Italy, but in the interest of some private individuals. I am making this reflection because you know better than I that the Bank of Italy is the only bank in Europe to be private since the shares are 97% of the private and about 3% of the State. This involves a control system that is not serious, but distorted. The Bank of Italy should be the guardian and controller of those who carry out a particular activity, but it is not because these are the owners of that entity. Then I'll reflect aloud. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the President of the Council and the representative of the Ministry here in this House why the Bank of Italy puts to the liabilities what should be in the assets and assets what should be in the liabilities. [[Comments of Senator Sposetti]] In 2011 the Bank of Italy, on behalf of the ECB, put in circulation 138 billion euros, which is money of the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u45	You have to finish, otherwise I'm forced to interrupt your intervention. I shall end it as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. You have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u46	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Why 138 billion euros that are put in circulation on behalf of Italians at a cost of 0.5%, which is the real cost, are then marketed for the value of 138 billion euros, which until the day before yesterday were of the State and of the country and today are of the private ones? Having said that, you invite me to conclude and not to continue my reflection, but I want to say with great force that I am in dissension because the structure of the measure is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u47	I would like to say that the rapporteur has tabled the proposal for coordination C1, which is being distributed. Senator Mancuso, do you intend to illustrate this?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u48	Madam President, there is really not much to explain: it is only a formal correction to standardize the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u49	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the final vote. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Petrocelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: With amendments to the law of Decree-Law No 25 of 14 March 2014 introducing urgent measures for the assistance of third parties for the exercise of the supervisory activities of the Bank of Italy, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorised to carry out any further changes of formal coordination that may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u50	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00230 tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators for the withdrawal of the appointment of Mr Del Basso de Caro. I call Senator Petrocelli to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u51	Madam President, thank you. In the motion for the revocation of the appointment to the Undersecretary Del Basso de Caro, we emphasize first of all the fact that the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Naples has issued, at his expense, an invitation to appear for the offence of peculate, in order to ascertain the destination of some unreported sums (which we find to be equal to 11,300 euros), used during his mandate as Regional Councillor of Campania. The offence for which Mr. Undersecretary is investigated is provided for in Article 314 of the Criminal Code and is included in Chapter I of Title II of that Code, relating to crimes against public administration. In the present case, the legislator is incriminating the conduct of the public official or public service officer who, having for reasons of his office or service the possession or in any case the availability of money or other mobile thing, appropriates it. We would therefore like to assess the fact that the Undersecretary carries out his governmental mandate in a Ministry, such as that of the infrastructures, which has very important competences on the infrastructures and the national public works, on the networks of road communication, highways, railway, lacuali, aerial and airport, marine and harbour. It also deals with residential, public and private buildings, and oversees the planning of public procurement under state responsibility. It shall exercise competence on roads provided for in the Road Code and competences in maritime and navigation, including merchant navy and air navigation, both regulated by the Navigation Code. Even more, it holds competences on programming and regulation in the matter of intermodal transport, on the local public transport, on the vigilance on the national Agency for the safety of the railways, on the road haulage of people and things, on the marine state property, on the vigilance on the harbour authorities and the activities in the ports. This is not a small matter. It seems to us that the considerations relating to the obvious political inopportunity of the Secretary's stay in office and to the necessary principle of caution and precaution in the custody of government-appointed public offices add to the incompatibility between the delicacy of this mandate and the contemporary judicial investigation in progress, concerning, moreover, a crime against the public administration. We consider the serious compromise of the Secretary's good repute and his ministerial activity to be a fact which does not allow him to remain in such a delicate position of commitment and responsibility. Therefore, in the motion we call for a commitment to the Government to immediately initiate the procedure of revocation, on a proposal from the President of the Council of Ministers, after consulting the Council of Ministers, of the appointment as State Secretary of lawyer Umberto Del Basso de Caro. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u52	Since there are no members to speak in the debate, I call the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u53	Madam President, State Secretary Del Basso de Caro is being investigated and not accused. As an investigator, he requested to be heard by the prosecutor to account for his actions. We believe that, precisely in strict compliance with the principle of legality, the guarantee information should be traced back to its function of protecting the suspect without anticipating the outcome of the investigation by a political body. Too many people have seen their professional and political lives marked by the wrong conclusions of warranty notices concluded then with no referral to trial or with acquittals in the process. Therefore, the Government's opinion is against the acceptance of the motion. [[Applause from Senators Fornaro and Gatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u54	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u57	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, I believe that the words now spoken by the Undersecretary are absolutely acceptable, so I believe that the request made in a pretentious manner by the 5 Star Movement Group must be rejected, partly because there are guarantees that must be guaranteed. I remember that in the reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure the guarantee notice was imagined to protect, on the one hand, the secrecy of the investigations, precisely because it was right that people could be investigated, except for certain special acts (searches, inspections and so on), and collect the material to close the investigations. The notice of termination of an investigation may not be exchanged for a prior conviction. Therefore, I agree with the considerations of the Undersecretary, and we will reject this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u60	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, our position is somewhat similar to Mr Susta's speech. The political battle is now being waged with all the instruments at its disposal. We know that here any pretext can be used to........................................................................ We have a press, a media system that is greedy for scandals, scandals and scandals and that must fill pages every day even if there is no need for them. We are probably offering him an opportunity to write a chapter of history that affects Parliament, which affects the Government. But, making an analysis: let the judges and the courts be free to act, as well as the defendants to prove that they had nothing to do with it. If we want to put the cart in front of the oxen before we even know facts and responsibilities, then we are starting a path that really leads us to big risks. For our part we understand that every official must be above suspicion, but we seem to be at an early and preventive stage, and objectively we do not feel, to date, in the state of the acts, to give a judgment on a matter that is merely to the acts, with an suspect who has received a warranty notice, which is about to defend itself or produce documents to prove that that hypothesis of crime does not exist. We will abstain from voting on this motion, but we blame this way of acting, which seems very pretentious to us and aimed at other objectives.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u63	Comrade (NCD). Madam President, the senators of the New Centre Group do not believe that this motion can be accepted or, at least, not by our vote. In his essential sobriety, the representative of the Government has specified the terms of the matter. Any other consideration, as my Divine colleague said very well, would be a forcing of that independence and autonomy of the judiciary so often instrumentally evoked in these cases. In the absolute respect for the freedom of colleagues to present any kind of document, I would point out that we do not seem to have a good page to degrade the Senate Chamber, among other things in a presumptuous way, with reference to a mass moralism always vulgar and, in the case of Umberto Del Basso de Caro, totally unjustified. Hence our vote against the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u66	Barani (GAL). Madam President, our Group will of course also vote against this motion, which it considers to be politically vulgar and dishonest at times. The Undersecretary, lawyer Del Basso de Caro, is a serious, honest, capable and, of course, innocent person, until proven otherwise according to our Constitution, that is to say, until final judgment, which we have foreseen after three degrees of judgment. We, of socialist culture and guarantee, say that sometimes, even with sentences passed in court, a person can remain serious and capable, especially if he has received a political condemnation, as there have been in recent months, in recent times. We believe that it is wrong to generalise, with false populism, that there should be an investigation by the judiciary. And enough with this judiciary replacing politics! Stop chasing the magistrates! These must do their duty, as most of them do, and we must isolate those extremely politicized who act in this way to replace us in these parliamentary classrooms. I'll finish with an example. If the 5 Star Movement existed at the time of Fascism, when the one who would later become the President of the Republic, Sandro Pertini, had even been sentenced to life imprisonment, this House would of course have been considered a criminal. Instead, he was the one who condemned him. It is for this reason that I say that the story must be seen in the historical context in which we find ourselves. We believe that the motion must be rejected, but even more so, upstream: what a vulgarity to commit the Senate, with the problems that the Italians have, on a motion against a Undersecretary who is doing his job. If I have to find a mole to the Undersecretary Del Basso de Caro, I say that, being guarantorist and having collaborated with the socialists and having been close to Bettino Craxi, being in the Democratic Party is really the only mole I can challenge him, but it is not enough to vote against him. We therefore reject this motion. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u67	We greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo statale (State Understanding Institute) "Piero Gobetti" of Caltagirone, in the province of Catania, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u70	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to make a point. The excessive and unjustified use of the institution of the motion of no confidence will certainly lead to its future degradation. I therefore say to my fellow Members that repeatedly using these instruments that parliamentary democracy makes available is not doing a good job, nor in favour of the principle of purity, let us say, of the public service, nor in favour of the development of parliamentary dialectics: it is clear that repeated and unjustified use, without any justification other than that of political opportunity, which can also be in the case of my colleague and undersecretary Del Basso de Caro, will certainly not help a correct parliamentary dialectics. In a rule of law, where there is the principle of presumption of not guilty, the use of an instrument of this kind, without any content, can lead to a drift that - I remind my colleagues of the 5 Star Movement - will fall on those who activated it. In the parliamentary dialectic, the instrumental use (I am not among those who will) of certain institutions will be repeated, and I wish you that the day you will be in the government you will have someone who will remind you of this repeated abuse. Some say that it would be appropriate to prevent colleagues from going to the government; I agree with him, but in the parliamentary dialectic and in democracy this possibility must certainly be envisaged in theory at least. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE is opposed to the motion of distrust.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u73	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who fortunately listen to us from outside, thanks to the 5 Star Movement in this House today we are discussing public morality, institutional dignity and civil duty on the part of those who exercise public functions. We believe that the only hope for this country is not a few euros in paychecks given to buy votes, but the moral legitimacy of those who propose it. Dear citizens, we are all seeing it: the government team that Mr. Renzi has formed has no requirement of good repute and is one of the most investigated in the history of the Italian Republic. It is a veritable national scandal of which no means of information speaks. I'd like to remind you of some data, which we don't write about the Five Star Movement, because Mr. Renzi and his team have thought of for themselves. Mr. Renzi is the first to be sentenced by the Court of Auditors of Tuscany for erarial damage; he has also for years criticized the use of a penthouse in the center of Florence owned by the entrepreneur Carrai. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u74	Senator Santangelo, try to use a language a little more appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u75	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, that is very appropriate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, the verb you used is not appropriate. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, the Minister for Labour, Mr Poletti, is in a monstrous conflict of interest. The Minister of Economic Development Guidi is imposed by Berlusconi in exchange for a favorable treatment on radio frequencies. The Undersecretary for cultural assets and activities and for tourism Barracciu is investigated for offence of peculate; the Deputy Minister of the Interior Bubbico has a criminal procedure in progress for offence of office abuse, as well as the minister of infrastructure and transport Lupi, the State Secretary for Health Vito De Filippo, until you get to Del Basso de Caro, of which you all know here the curriculum, from Mastella onwards, Craxi and so on. Madam President, the 5 Star Movement has presented motions for removal from the positions of ministers and sub-secretaries in conflict of interests, investigated and under trial. Everyone will be able to speak democratically on these motions, expressing their vote and making it known to the citizens outside. I give some more data, remembering what happens in other European countries, because in order to grow we have to confront ourselves; We do not do as President Grasso did this morning during the debate on the amendment of Rule 416-b of the penal code, when he took away the opportunity to speak. Think that in France, for example, in 2005 the Minister of Economy resigned for rent paid by others (President Renzi, listen!). In 2006 two ministers resigned in Sweden, one because they did not pay the television canon and the other because they paid in black the nanny of their children, and we could go on, recalling what happens in many other European countries. This is not about establishing the guilt of the undersecretary Del Basso de Caro, but about opportunities. What do you do with us? All the other way around. A government is formed in which for one of the best anti-mafia magistrates there are fantastic incompatibility - even Napolitano has intervened - while the red carpets are stretched out for the suspects sent back to trial and the discounts are made for the mafias and politicians collusion with the mafia. In a normal country this does not happen; in Italy, however, it is still so. Regardless of the crime and the judicial question, gentlemen, in civilized countries you resign, or rather you do not accept the assignment, for a simple matter of opportunity, precaution, respect and institutional dignity. I wonder: can't the Democratic Party, which is very large, find in its ranks an incensured, uninvestigated to replace the Undersecretary Del Basso de Caro? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Article 54 of the Constitution states that citizens entrusted with public functions have a duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor. Gentlemen, undersecretary Del Basso de Caro, in our opinion and many citizens who are outside this House, has irreparably lost this goodness. We ask that for decency and institutional dignity the Undersecretary Del Basso de Caro return with calmness and kindness to his home: I repeat, at his home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u78	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, there are very few measures, decisions and choices of the Renzi Government that we share. We did not vote for trust at the beginning, nor did we vote for trust in all the cases in which it was placed. To several choices of the current Government we are decidedly opposed, but here it is proposed to expel from the Government a Undersecretary because - I read it from the very text of the motion - the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Naples has issued, to his responsibility, an invitation to appear for the offence of peculate, in order to ascertain - in order to ascertain, well known - the destination of sums not reported (equal to 11,300 euros), used during his mandate as Regional Councillor of Campania. It is from the same words as the motion that I derive the need to wait at least for these clarifications before implementing the withdrawal procedures. Of course, as has just been said, a person could resign, of course, just as it is true that the choices in the nominations of the members of the Government are always questionable: but they are, in fact, made by the Government. I believe that we could justify a motion of this kind for political reasons, for the exercise of the mandate, for things done badly or not when they were to be done by a Undersecretary, a Deputy Minister or a Minister during his term of office, not because he has to go to court to clarify a matter on which, apparently, he is being investigated. We shall therefore vote against this motion, stating that it is not a matter of trusting the Government, but of opposing a method. If, ladies and gentlemen, an investigation or an invitation to appear is enough to expel someone from a particular office in which either the elections or, as in this case, the mechanisms provided for in the Constitution have led him, it is clear that the choice would no longer belong to the people or to their representatives, so it would no longer belong to the sovereign people either directly or indirectly, but it would belong to the discretion, which the magistrates rightly have because they choose how to carry out the investigations: sometimes they are right, they are not always doing so, and we know well how many investigated then have been found completely foreign, and also condemned. Finally, the words of moral condemnation and indignation resonated yesterday and again this morning; in particular, our Group has been attacked with accusations of all kinds, which I prefer not to mention, but always based on morality. Well, ladies and gentlemen who have signed this motion, is it more serious a conviction for tax crimes, or an investigation for EUR 11,000, or a conviction for manslaughter in which an entire family, including a child, died? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u81	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to refer to the facts as mentioned by the Undersecretary, Mr Pizzetti, and also to remind the House that the person we are talking about, the Undersecretary, Mr Del Basso de Caro, has an intact past. He's president of the Benevento Bar Association. For the facts that we are talking about, he has never been questioned by the judiciary and the only act that has been notified to him so far is the notice of closure of the preliminary investigations. In the motion of the 5 Star Movement, which I, like Senator Buemi, have read carefully, the only argument that is used, the only argument to which Senator Santangelo referred, is that of political inopportunity. The motion adds nothing more than the news of the closure of the investigations involving the Undersecretary Del Basso de Caro. I am well aware, we all know, that political responsibility - as Senator Santangelo recalled - can also intervene long before the judicial declaration of guilt, and this is particularly true in a country like Italy where the three degrees of judgment can last a long time. However, it is not acceptable to trigger the inopportunity only for the closure of preliminary investigations, at a stage which is absolutely initial in a procedure of which neither the follow-up is known nor what the outcome will be. In the last two years, Madam President, in most of the Italian regions judgments have been made for the illicit use of public resources allocated to the political groups of the Regions, but not all cases that have been brought to public knowledge are the same. For the same head of accusation for which the investigation was opened against Mr Del Basso de Caro (as someone recalled, the use of 11,000 euros of his Council Group) a few days ago the prosecutors of Milan and Turin filed proceedings related to regional councillors of those Regions. Now, convictions in bulk, without distinguishing case by case, without knowing whether public resources have been used for the political activities to which they were intended or for personal expenses, are not allowed precisely for reasons of justice. I think that politics would be wrong if it merely attended the work of the judges, without being able to assume its responsibilities. That is why we must appreciate that, in order to regulate once and for all this unregulated matter, in the constitutional reform of the Renzi Government, any public reimbursement in favour of the Regional Council Groups is abolished. But there is one thing to add, because it is politically coloring this affair and this debate of ours. The 5 Star Movement, in addition to the Del Basso de Caro motion, presented six more, towards the ministers Poletti, Guidi and Lupi, of the deputy minister Bubbico and of the undersecretaries De Filippo and Barracciu. Now, there is a wrong idea of politics and parliamentary life in this simultaneous and serial use of motions of mistrust, presented in different cases with very similar texts in their fundamental elements, without any prior investigation and verification work, without a conscientious case-by-case assessment. The intention to keep the House busy discussing political opponents who are entitled to be respected is transparent, since not only the decisions of the judges have not been taken, but the results of the investigation are not even known. It is for these reasons that the Senators of the Democratic Party will reject the motion of the 5 Star Movement, on which, however, I want to add something political, which is related to the use and content of these seven motions. Indeed, there is a political challenge in Italy, Madam President. On the one hand, there's the 5 Star Movement... CASTALDI (M5S). On the other hand, all of you! ZANDA (PD). ...that declares war on the European Union and democratic institutions, that has accustomed us to hear insults to political opponents and that has also made us feel the fascist outrages of Grillo to the writings of Primo Levi and the victims of the Auschwitz slaughterhouse. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Fascist is you! [[Comments from the M5S Group. Call the president back. Ironic applause from Senator Endrizzi. Comments of Senator Martelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u82	Let Senator Zanda finish his surgery. Senator Zanda, please stick to the theme.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u83	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I am sticking to this issue, because this is a political issue, and as such it must be developed. There are also yesterday's sessions and this morning's session. I heard Senator Buccarella accusing the Democratic Party of using provocation yesterday. The Senator of his Group who intervened after him said that the Democratic Party had a certain position on Article 416-b because it would be led by phone calls from Totò Riina. [[Live comments from Senators Santangelo and Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u84	Senator Santangelo, Senator Buccarella, have Senator Zanda finish the surgery. Senator Zanda, please proceed with your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u85	[[Live comments from Senators Crimes, Marton, Buccarella, Santangelo, Airola and Lucidi. Ironic applause from Senator Airola.]] ZANDA (PD). President, whoever said this nonsense didn't make anyone laugh. [[Senator Lucidi's protests]] It's not funny. It just sucks. It just sucks. [[Applause from the PD Group]] LUCIDES (M5S). (Senator Lucidi gets up and leans out of the balustrade.) You're such a pain in the ass! You're sorry! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, please return to your place. Senator Zanda, you can continue your speech. ZANDA (PD). I go on, ma'am, if they leave me... [[Protests of Senator Buccarella]] MARTON (M5S). Make him stop provoking! AIROLA (M5S). It's an election ad! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Zanda conclude, who is expressing his views. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] ZANDA (PD). If I may... [[Protests of Senator Santangelo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u86	Senator Santangelo! SANTANGELO (M5S). (Address to the Presidency). He can offend, can't he? He can offend and you shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, please have this concluded. MARTELLI (M5S). I call for the floor on a point of order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You cannot speak on a point of order when another speech is being made. Please, Senator Zanda. MARTELLI (M5S). President, Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure! It's going off the charts! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Zanda ZANDA (PD). Like all senators, I have the right to speak in this House in silence. SANTANGELO (M5S). To offend! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order! SANTANGELO (M5S). Me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u87	[[Ironic applause from Senator Santangelo]] Senator Santangelo! [[Senator Lucidi's protests]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You're good! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, I'm calling you back to order. [[Senator Martelli's protests]] Senator Martelli! Mr Fornaro (PD). Let me talk! Let me talk! You're fascists! MARTON (M5S). Fornaro, what do you want? What do you want? Borioli (PD). Fascists! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marton, I ask you and other colleagues to end Senator Zanda's speech, otherwise, as President Grasso has already done this morning, I will be forced to leave the Chamber. Everyone in this House has the right to speak and to express their views! SANTANGELO (M5S). This is your democracy! ZANDA (PD). President, I... [[Senator Martelli's protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u88	Senator Martelli, I'm calling you back to order! ZANDA (PD). I shall finish with a few lines, because I cannot allow my speech to paralyze the House. But let me say that the 5 Star Movement believes that paralyzing the Senate Chamber brings him votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u89	[[Senator Santangelo's comments]] We think the exact opposite. We think that reasoning, talking and good politics can also bring political success. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Casini and Buemi]] I mean...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u91	ZANDA (PD). President, let me finish. I have my time and I still have something to say. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm trying to guarantee your right to speak. ZANDA (PD). I want to tell the 5 Star Movement that Italians are intelligent people... SANTANGELO (M5S). You're not Italian! ZANDA (PD). ...and they can distinguish between those who want to paralyze the country and hurt the institutions... LEZZI (M5S). He can't talk! BULGARRELLI (M5S). He can't talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators Lezzi and Bulgarelli! [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group]] ZANDA (PD). ...and those who work to give a future to Italy and the Italians, and will prove it on May 25th! [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Look at the commercial! Mr Lezzi (M5S). It is an unworthy presidency! AIROLA (M5S). Unable! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 230. (Senator Buccarella shows that he wants to intervene.) Senator Buccarella, you will be given the floor after the vote. (Senator Petrocelli shows that he wants to intervene.) SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. (Senator Buccarella, addressed to the Presidency, repeatedly shows that he wants to speak.) AIROLA (M5S). Give the floor to our group leader!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u92	He will be given the floor after the vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Sibilia, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). BUCCARELLA (M5S). (Senator Buccarella descends into the hemicycle and shakes his arms visibly.) Can you see me now? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, I'll give you the floor right after the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on motion No 230, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Vibrating protests from the M5S Group]] Senator Buccarella, you have the floor. SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! AIROLA (M5S). Now you're reopening the vote. This is very serious! This is very serious! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, if you do not respect the Presidency, I will ask the parliamentary assistants and the quaestors senators to remove you from the Chamber. [[Senator Buccarella points out that he wants to intervene.]] AIROLA (M5S). Get our group leader to talk! You must be ashamed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. I pray to the senators. quaestors to turn Senator Airola away from the presidency! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Barani (GAL). Get out! GIOVANARDI (NCD). Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators Quaestors and parliamentary assistants are requested to turn Senator Airola away. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Good! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please comply with the provisions and indications of the Presidency. [[Protests of the M5S Group.]] BUCCARELLA (M5S). President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators Quaestors are requested to carry out the Presidency's arrangement. (Senator Malan, with some parliamentary assistants, approaches Senator Airola's desk to execute the order of the Presidency.) PETROCELLI (M5S). I really wanted to speak in a dissenting explanation of vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please step away from the Chamber voluntarily. [[Comments of the M5S group. Senator Airola stays at his desk.]] Well, then either you carry out the Presidency's instructions or I will suspend the sitting. SANTANGELO (M5S). And stop! MORONESE (M5S). It's a shame! It's a shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Well, the session is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 6.05 p.m. and resumed at 6.04 p.m.) Let's resume our work. Senator Buccarella had asked to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u93	Madam President, I do not know why these are moments when you are aware and aware of the way in which this House has been conducted in the last ten minutes. When President Zanda began to take over clearly from the merit of the speech he was making an explanation of vote on a motion. For obvious reasons of the election campaign - as I said this morning, I must reiterate and repeat it in a technical sense - Senator Zanda, in his role, provokes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] He seems to be obsessed with the 5 Star Movement and instead of remaining in the argument relevant to the document in our examination, without the Presidency making any emphasis, he began to attack the 5 Star Movement. We thank him for this: thank you, Mr Zanda, you are campaigning for us! And he calls us fascists while the presidency doesn't move a finger. [[Comments of the PD Group.]] Mr President, allow me, this must not happen, because what would happen if instead of explaining the amendments on the legal provisions as we have done, we wanted to do and failed to do in a complete way, we had to use the time we have available only to conduct instrumental attacks, giving of the fascist or communist, according to your old vocabulary, which is old and which no longer works... [[Comments of the PD Group.]] Sunta (SPI). You've been giving us mobsters all morning. What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Susta! BUCCARELLA (M5S). It doesn't work anymore! You can make us nervous here, but it doesn't matter to us, because you're doing us a favor, because those who watch these scenes are getting a very clear idea. So I say to my colleagues in the Group: let us not fall into the provocations of the other Members of this House. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group.]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! BUCCARELLA (M5S). I say to those who chair this House to make the Rules of Procedure observe. We are the first to want respect for the institutions. It is we who want legality; it is we who ask for the revocation of the undersecretaries investigated. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u94	Quiet, please. Let Senator Buccarella finish the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u95	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I think I've said enough and made the message pass: our thanks to Senator Zanda for the great help he's giving us... SOLLO (PD). You need help! BUCCARELLA (M5S). ...the moment you call us fascists and the moment your contradictions about political choices make you come out like a can of tuna (I don't know if it tells you anything) that opens up and shows the contradiction of your politics. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] So, Madam President, what I say to you personally is that we will not be willing to bear it any further... [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u96	Senator Buccarella, I believe there is mutual tolerance in this House. [[Senator Santangelo's lively comments.]] Senator Santangelo, calm down! Senator Buccarella, as you have guaranteed to call your parliamentarians to a more sober behavior, I would invite you to begin with Senator Santangelo. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u97	Sober behavior will be there, as there has always been when we have been able to reason according to the rules. The moment the rights are trampled on...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u98	Look, I think even today, the rights of expression have been guaranteed to everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u99	[[Senators Martelli, Marton and Santangelo stand up and sign no with their hand]] BUCCARELLA (M5S). I'm sorry, ma'am, no. Anyway, thanks to Senator Zanda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked to speak to Senator De Cristofaro. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I have not finished, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I thought he was done. Finish it, Senator Buccarella. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I skipped an organizational-logistic post. Most of my parliamentary group was unable to vote because it was taken by the speeches of the parliamentary assistants and the great barrage in this House... President. You will be able to report to the Presidency to show what the intention to vote was. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Other members of the Group and I have pointed out the request for action. You followed up voting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us make it clear that the senators who did not take part in the vote intend to vote. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I call for incidents such as today's events to be censored, when necessary, by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u102	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, on behalf of our Group, I would like to ask you whether it is possible to postpone the discussion of the other motions on the agenda and, of course, to listen to the views of the group leaders. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I need to interview the other groups. I was told there was an understanding. I would ask if this agreement is confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u105	MICHELONI (PD). Madam President, we have been informed of the request by the Mixed SEL Group. Clearly, we agree with the request for referral, because it is seriously motivated. Given that this is the third postponement for various reasons, what we are asking, Mr President, as signatories to one of the motions, is the guarantee that it will be put on the agenda of the meetings of 7 or 8 May, because first the senators of the foreign districts are on a mission abroad, and we all want to be present for the debate on this important motion. If there is this promise, we have no problem postponing the debate, following the request made by the Mixed-SEL Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u106	If there are no objections and if the postponement is decided, the decision on re-alendarisation will still be taken by the Conference of the Leaders, taking account, of course, of this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u109	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we agree with the request for referral back to the date that Senator Micheloni asked for. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I confirm what has just been said.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u112	MANCUSE (NCD). Madam President, I rise to support the request made, considering the requests of the SEL Group as valid. We agree on this postponement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u115	ROMANO (PI). Madam President, we agree with the proposal of the Mixed SEL Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u118	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, we also agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u121	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, I agree with the proposal for a postponement.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u122	Since everyone agrees, so it remains established. I shall therefore refer the remaining motions to the agenda for another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u125	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a voice here to the residents of a protected structure in the Municipality of Parma. The "XXV aprile" structure of Parma is one of the residential realities of cities for adults and elderly partially self-sufficient with social problems or with need of assistance, which is critical enough to have a profound impact on the quality of life of the guests, who in recent days have found themselves unable to leave their rooms as both the lifts present were blocked. It is a paradoxical situation to say the least. The first of the two was, in fact, blocked for several weeks, since the beginning of February, and, on numerous occasions, the criticality had been reported to the Municipality of Parma, so that it could intervene to restore its proper functioning, as it seems unsuccessful. At the end of last week the second elevator was also blocked, with the result that guests with motor difficulties found themselves unable to leave their rooms and to have no assistance. It is an unacceptable situation of "segregation." It is not the first time that the residence "XXV April" ends in the center of the Parmesan chronicles. In the same building, in fact, there have been serious inconveniences in recent months, such as to radically compromise the quality of life of the guests. Specifically, for a long time, over a month and a half, due to the failure of a mixer it became impossible to use hot water. It became, therefore, impossible for family members even to wash their loved ones. Finally, in the courtyard of the structure there would be some holes that compromise the possibility, for guests with severe difficulty of walking, to walk it in safety conditions. On the whole, we are faced with a situation which is impossible to accept and which requires immediate action. We are in the Municipality of Parma which has a high-level tradition and a municipal administration that boasts of having a very advanced social state policy; a municipality leading the 5 Star Movement! 18.15 p.m. (Follows PAGLIARI). This is not only a question of Parma, but more general and delicate that poses the problem of how municipal administrative policy should not be such as to prevent in the individual municipalities the assistance to these structures that are fully borne by the Municipality for the elderly who have no other protection. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u128	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a speech to bring to the attention of the Senate House the difficulty I have been experiencing today and since yesterday in getting in touch and having the availability of the director of the prison in Verona to access it and visit the prisoners during the Easter holidays. I have tried in every way, repeatedly, to trace the director through the offices during today's day, without any possibility. I was able to speak - I think, Mr President - with the secretary of the prison director. There was little time for them to let me talk to the last doorman, without having the availability of a visitor's time yet. I believe that a fundamental right is being violated by both a Member of Parliament and the prisoners in the prison itself to receive the visit of a senator or a Member. Inside this prison there are prisoners waiting for trial and there are people who are even waiting for the validation of the judicial detention. I therefore believe that, through the Presidency, the Minister's attention should be drawn to this attitude which I fail to define as negligent by the direction of the surrounding prison in Verona. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u129	Senator Candiani, I hope you can exercise your rights, that you can access the facility, and above all that you can get out of it. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u132	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, since only the investigation is not enough, we hope that a referral to trial will serve something. Today is the news of Senator Maurizio Gasparri's referral back to judgment by the Roma gup, about the offence of flawed for having signed in 2012, as his own admission, a life policy with 600,000 euros of funds intended for the Parliamentary Group People of Freedom. In the event of the death of the insured person, they would have been his legitimate heirs: wife and daughter. On March 20, 2013 and February 23, 2013, the exponent of the center-right, with two transfers of 300,000 euros each, after specific requests from the Group's administration, provided for the return of the money, even if there is no call for 10,697 euros, which would be the equivalent of the interest accrued with the subscription of the policy redeemed in advance by Gasparri on February 1. Even if the sum has been returned, we remember that the peculate is an instant crime, which is consumed at the time when the appropriation of money takes place. Let us also remember that it is an offence provided for in Article 314 of the penal code, by virtue of which the public official or the person in charge of public service who, having for reasons of his office or service the possession or in any case the availability of money or other mobile thing others, appropriates, is punished with imprisonment - look at it! - from four to ten years old, neither more nor less than for the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Beyond the important criminal aspect of the affair, it is particularly important, as already highlighted by the 5 Star Movement both on 18 December 2013 and on 17 February 2014, the political and institutional issue underlying it. We remind our colleagues and inform the citizens that Article 16 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, paragraph 2, provides that "The contributions to the budget of the Senate paid in total in favor of the parliamentary groups (...) are intended by the Groups exclusively for the institutional purposes related to parliamentary activity and the political activities related to it". It is therefore clear that the signing of private policies at the expense of taxpayers and for the benefit of legitimate heirs does not fall within the institutional aims, either in parliamentary activity or in the operating costs of the bodies. On November 20, Senator Gasparri paid homage to my person with a comment that I am going to quote: The fact that a person like the Tavern is part of the Senate is a good reason to abolish it. So some people will return to the nothing from which it comes. Reminding the senator that I personally have, like all members of the Group, helped to give us rules that provide, in addition to the cut of our salaries, the execution of only two mandates, I have no problem to return to nothing from which I come and to which millions of people belong that you have relegated to nothing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Much more modestly, I ask on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group for the immediate resignation of Senator Gasparri from the post of Vice President of the Senate, on a matter concerning the formal and substantial dignity of the organ. I don't care where the senator comes back personally, but if we can get the preferences inserted, I'm sure I know where he won't be after the next election. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u135	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, tomorrow we will all focus on our planning forecasts (in fact tomorrow is dedicated to the examination of the Economic and Financial Document). We are in a period of spending review, so the focus on public administration spending is maximum. It happens that a body of the public administration in these days does what it must do, that is, it informs all the consultants, and those who have lent works for the Senate, of the withholding taxes made. It happens that this organ, in sending a single sheet A4, uses out-of-measure envelopes, out of the standard, which cost 30 percent more than normal shipping. It happens that to send this sheet you spend 4.65 euros instead of 3.75. But it happens that the notified are all professionals, registered to albi, who collaborate with the administration, and by law - perhaps we have forgotten - all professionals must have a certified mail, so the sending of a document has a cost of zero. We do not understand why public administration continues to make savings laws, which oblige structures, institutions, professionals and individuals to bear burdens, we give rules (we even have a commissioner, Dr. Cottarelli, who checks how money is spent in public administration) and then it is the public administration first to forget, indeed to spend much more than would be needed. President, this body of public administration is the Senate of the Republic. See what you need to do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u138	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask for a reply to Question No 300755 (with an urgent nature) published on 26 February 2014 at sitting No 198, which concerns qualified teachers through active training (TFA). I remember this tonight because tomorrow there will be a demonstration of these teachers in front of the Ministry. If the answer to the urgent question had arrived at a more reasonable time, perhaps tomorrow's demonstration could have been avoided. I therefore hope that the answer will come. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. I hope so, too, Senator Margiotta.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u141	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, on a subject similar to what has now been brought to our attention by Mr Margiotta. I submitted two questions to the then minister Carrozza (the 4-01454 and the 4-01554) about the completion of the competitions as a chair of qualification to the association and the ordinary, as regards the classes of competition of history of Christianity and contemporary history. It is clear that Minister Carrozza could not answer me for the events that we all know. I then reiterated my request for a reply to the new minister, Professor Giannini, but I have not yet received any response. I would therefore be grateful if you, Mr President, could urge the Government to give satisfaction to my requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u144	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked to speak because Senator Taverna has turned this House into a court of law, into a court of law. "Referral to judgment" means, no more or less, that there is matter to be submitted to the trial. I believe that each of you will find a letter from Senator Gasparri in the mailbox - as I and other senators have found - which reiterates point by point what you have already said in this House. I do not want to go into the matter, because it is not up to this House to discuss the substance. It is a matter of compliance with minimum rules. The verification cannot be based on a statement which does not even correspond to the reality of the facts. For this reason, Mr President, I have asked to speak, because everyone's role must be respected, and only when the facts are established can the individual position be assessed. We have today seen a motion against a Undersecretary (others have been tabled) and, now, against a Vice President of the Senate, on the basis only of imaginative reconstruction and not of reality.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u145	Senator Caliendo, having concluded the speeches at the end of the sitting and having to answer them, I remind you that there is no instrument of mistrust towards a member of the Presidency Council. And until the Constitution is amended, the second paragraph of Article 27 is always valid, which states that the defendant is not considered guilty until his final sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u146	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-04-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-232.ana.u147	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, April 17, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.28 a.m.
